ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the fourth meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič from 13.30 p.m., Ferenc Horváth, Eva Irgl, Gregor Židan from 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m., Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 2 p.m. and Ludmila Novak from 1 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the President of the Government to the 19th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and Mr Petr Svetino, the Ombudsman, to the 20th item of the agenda, the Minister of Justice Andrejo Katič to the 20th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all agenda items. Allow me to greet all the present and government council once again. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak a few words on the international day of the Holocaust victims' memory before the meeting. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished citizens and citizens! On 27 January, the international community horrified one of the darkest periods of human history. In the year we commemorate the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, this memory is especially powerful. The International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations, cuts into our daily memory silence in 1945 when members of the Red Army liberated Auschwitz concentration camp. In this factory in the direction of the German Nazi regime, more than a million campers lost their lives. The victims were Jews, Slavs, Roma, prisoners of war and political opponents, minorities, the weakest and the most vulnerable, including a thousand 331 Slovenes and Slovenes. Nazi ideology killed 6 million Jews as a wild monster. On purpose and on the basis of official policy, it divided members of individual communities into multi-valued and unprofitable; those who belong to them in this world and those who will take it away from them. It's incredibly difficult for us to realize all the horrors and crimes against our fellow human beings, what can happen if we forget that we're all human. What attitude we have toward these actions, how we define ourselves and how we value them, is an indication of the state of the spirit of the world in which we live today. From the ruins of World War II, a new hope arose. Faith returned to the dignity and value of man. The post-war world has strengthened its commitment to respect for human rights, to understanding freedom, equality and justice. This was our common response to all countries of the world and mankind as a whole to protect and protect any individual, regardless of the skin, sex, religion, or other personal circumstances. That is why we must always pay attention to intolerance and hatred, which threaten the openness and freedom of our society to reject the incitement of people to people, discrimination, exclusion and anti-Semitism. It is also because in the European community we have learned from this unimaginable sea how fragile peace is and how wrong it is to believe that our humanity is self-evident. On the international day of the Holocaust, our shared moral responsibility and the political duty to continue to oppose intolerance and human dignity violations with all our courage is thus respected and respected. By doing so, we show deep respect for the survivors and humbly bow down to the millions who have been the victims of the most mass crimes against mankind. History is full of evidence of the danger of ignoring small acts that end in great suffering. Never again! Dear Members, honourable Members, all present, we continue to meet and move on to the agenda of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday, 18 January 2019, with the reference to this meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 4th meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 55 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition, the questions raised by Members of the left-wing group and the question raised by members of the ruling coalition will be answered by the President of the government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The explanation of the request to supplement the reply of Members shall be presented within two minutes and the completion of the reply may take up to three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the questions raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point they apologized for today: Dr Aleksandra Pivec, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Dejan Prešiček, Minister for Culture, and Dr Miro Cerar, Minister for Foreign Affairs from 18:00 on. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the question of the Members. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Victory Jelinčič noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I am interested in: How do you plan to correct the inappropriate position of the Slovenians in Austria, especially in the countries of Koroška and Styria? I think it's a constitutional nation. Slovenians are a constitutional nation in these two countries of Austria, but they do not enjoy these positions. Let me get this straight. The status of the lands of princes and duchesses has already been established by the Westphalia Peace in 1648, named as a truce from Münstra and Osnabrück. This peace forced the emperor to take account of the national assembly and the emperor could no longer issue his orders without providing support for the princes of the country and in the countries. On August 11, 1804, he was the emperor of France II. issued a decree or imperial patent which also confirms the status of the state of the two Slovenian countries, Koroška and Štajerski, as well as the other two Slovenian nations. This patent was written in three languages: German, Slovenian, and Italian. It says exactly what we were and what we were. Therefore, the status of Slovenians in Austria today is totally inadequate. I'm asking: When will you open up this question to the federal government in Vienna, that in the country of Koroška and in the country of Styria, the Slovenian nation is aware as a constitutional nation, thereby gaining the rights that the constitutional nation must also have? In this way we can avoid all the bullying of the Slovenian population on the other side of the border and establish the right state, the right situation that should have been done after World War I, after World War II and at the latest in Slovenia today. I think the justification is clear and we should use our ambassador in the Republic of Austria mags. Xenia Skrilec to open this matter. I think the current Austrian government would be willing to do that. In addition, this matter could also be opened through the institutions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you for your question, honourable Member. They gave us some history and I also agree with this review of history that it has not always been so good for the Slovenians. As far as the constitutional nation is concerned, we know that unfortunate plebiscite occurred in 1920. I've mentioned this a number of times myself. There, unfortunately, the vast majority decided for Austria, not for the then kingdom of SHS. In my opinion, much of the blame lies also with the then Ljubljana government. I agree with that here. But now it is history, and the Slovenians have never been a nation that would attack other nations that would want to take over other nations. And formally, this is now Austrian territory. I agree, however, that the Slovenian minority in Styria is not treated the same way as the Slovenian minority in Koroška, because in Styria the teaching of Slovenian is still optional and other things are not regulated as they should be. I said on my visit to Vienna that the financing of the Slovenian minority by the Austrian State was also not in line with the increase in costs. I think that funding has been at the same level for quite some years, which is not satisfactory. Then it must be said that progress has been made on the Koro side. The current Korean country chief also has his child enrolled in the Slovenian school. So, by the management of the Austrian Koroška, relations are significantly different than they were years ago when we knew what was going on. The concrete progress is also that we will rebalance the resources of the Ministry of Slovenians around the world and the foreign nationals, who will be able to obtain more through the call for proposals. It's not all right. I'm not gonna say it. There's a lot to do. However, I believe that the Minister for Slovenians around the world and foreigners will do everything in this direction so that our minorities in Italy and Austria will receive the support of the country of origin, because we know that it has not always been what it should have been. We'll work in this direction. The Minister has already expressed his readiness and himself has taken some initiatives. In addition, it deals intensively with the Slovenian minority in Italy and Austria. Not to forget Hungary, where our minority may even be treated properly. I think that this moment is not completely reciprocal, and these things will also need to be dedicated in the future to not just talking about the minority in Austria's Koroška and, as you rightly pointed out, because it is repeatedly forgotten, even in Styria. I guarantee that the Government, in particular the Ministry of Foreigners and Slovenians around the world, will focus its efforts on the fact that we are aware that the Slovenian minority in all three countries is a minority and that the minority has become a minority through the web of both international and sometimes domestic political circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Request for complete response. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you. Mr President, I am not talking about assault, not taking the territory and not financing. I also did not speak of Italy and Hungary. These are other stories. Here, as far as the Slovenians are concerned, the status is concerned, and the Slovenians are not a minority, but they are a constitutional nation. And this status must be drafted and requested. We must not forget that Austria, as it is today, would not have been if it had not been one condition in the Austria Treaty of 1944 that the Republic of Austria, as such, would exist only if it could prove the fight against Nazism. And she proved it only with Slovenian partisans and on the basis of that – this is also one of the things that should be taken into account. As far as Styria's concerned. It was different in Styria. In Styria they agreed that the common country of Styria would be divided into Slovenian and Austrian parts, in accordance with the manifesto of Emperor Karl of 16 October 1918. There was a deal. And despite the fact that the Stygers offered us a border at Lipnica, Ljubljana decided to drop it on the Mura River. There was an even bigger goat farm in Koroška and then there was this serious, I would say, plebiscite that hit us on the head on October 10, 1920. I think, Mr President, that there is an urgent need to take steps that are no aggression, no requirement, to establish the actual historical status and position of Slovenians in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u8	I suppose, given that you were almost there for everything because you were well-educated, I suppose you will, then perhaps also accept some request that you be a special envoy and you will go to Vienna and you will present these things better than we are, who are obviously underactive. As far as other questions are concerned, I didn't think you thought we should attack Austria. Absolutely not! But here's another question. The issue of the ethnic Austrian national community is at stake with us, where Austria claims that this is a reciprocal issue. We have said that this is not a reciprocal question and that this is not the same status. Austria is in trouble right now. There were also some words on the occasion of a visit to Vienna. Our and Austrian views differ greatly in some cases, but not in others. Given that you know the history of Quarantine further, I believe that you may be able to achieve more in this area, although I have little doubt. But as for the minority in Hungary and Italy, this is for me, even though you say it's another story, but they deserve the same treatment. I think that if we can guarantee their status as they deserve, we will be very successful and we must work in this direction. But what we do know from history is that you're even demanding Istria along with it, and we know that it was over. I'm afraid these things are over today. However, I agree that if there were different behaviours in the past, there could be a lot different. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u10	Of course, I am not satisfied with this response, which shows a lack of history and a lack of national sense. Of course, it is also necessary to settle in Hungary and Italy, but this is not all in the same basket. As for the special envoy to Vienna, I am very happy to go there and explain to them many things that the Austrians always do, and they will not have to explain enough. It is necessary to explain to our people and our leaders who do not know what the truth is, what the facts are, and what can be done. The easiest thing to say is, it's over, then they didn't do it, and now we're just gonna get down on our knees and kick. As far as the reciprocity of the so-called Austrian minority is concerned, this reciprocity is eliminated by the fact that both countries have been divided. Until we split up. Here perhaps some gentleman with legal knowledge could explain, although I doubt that he has such knowledge. True, though, you do not seem to have the appropriate experts to deal with these issues and problems. However, in Slovenia there are people who know this, unfortunately, I do not know if there is one in your government – I doubt it, but I am wrong. It would be nice if you were wrong. I think it's too hot to just let it pass. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly decide on this matter and that we discuss it. It is only now that the issue is being opened, because all the political actors so far have simply pushed this matter under the rug, so that they do not object to it, to the third. However, it is necessary to know that stomping and kneeling treatment of neighbouring countries or the Brussels administration does not do anyone any good. They kick us from the left, they kick us from the right, and instead of standing up, we go up here in one of these defensives, we line up with a carpet over our heads, and we wait for the matter to pass. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this matter be discussed at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the next question, Mr Jan Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government! In recent weeks, we have been monitoring in the media a number of stories of families and individuals who have found themselves in a difficult financial situation due to extremely large delays in decision-making when social benefits are shared at social work centres. These have been delayed and are still missing outstanding applications for benefits, such as child allowances, kindergarten subsidies, lunches and lunches, and state scholarships. In these cases, it is precisely those social benefits that are intended for children from socially weaker families and therefore, at a time of delay in deciding on the decommissioning of funds that are legally owned by them, that they must be covered from other sources, and therefore hope that the application will be fully approved and will then be reimbursed. Due to months of backlogs, these families or individuals, in addition to the difficult financial situation, have also been accompanied by uncertainty. Unapproved children’s allowances prevented families from planning or affording essential family expenses, required them to pay the full cost of kindergarten, and students, especially students, had to find work, which caused some to suffer from the study process. This is therefore a unique case in the Republic of Slovenia, where social rights were not decided without undue delay due to the systemic inefficiency in the provision of social services to social work centres, resulting from irresponsible, premature, unimaginable and ineffective reorganisation of social work centres and a delayed decision automation project. These two projects were designed and started in the previous term, during the time of the Minister of Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, and took place until October 2018, when the current Minister's term of office had already taken place. Despite the warnings, the introduction of information support to the reorganisation took place in the first week of October and therefore the information systems of the centres were not available and the beneficiaries could not submit an e-application via the eGovernment portal. At social work centres, as in every year, there has been an increase in applications due to the start of the school year and the school year. The increase in applications is therefore a circumstance that could be foreseen and the start of a reorganisation moved to a few months later when the work of social work centres is not so burdensome. As a result, the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which we had in November 2018, which removed a massive, automatic IT calculation for annual rights from the legislation. In view of such a breakdown, we can conclude that the great pre-election promises of modernisation and the automation of the social protection system have become at odds. That's why I want to know: Who is responsible, and how will be responsible for material and intangible damage to socially disadvantaged families and others? Do you think Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is still suitable for the function of Secretary of State in your office? How much did the reorganisation of social work centres cost, and how much was its promotion in the public before the elections? Will you prepare a new organization and, above all, what will you do to prevent us from witnessing this case again in the autumn? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you so much for asking. I think the question is very much in place, given what's been going on, and you've already detected quite a few things that have happened. I must agree with you that the day of the reorganisation has not been chosen wisely, it is October 1st, when there are most of these applications. The inflow of applications for the exercise of rights from public funds at that time is truly enormous, and I therefore regret to agree with you that the date was not the right one. In addition, there was a change or upgrade of the information system that did not work for a week. Presence continued because it did not act in time either. Then you ask me what will happen in the future, that this will never happen again. Minister Kseniya Klampfer acted immediately. For the payment of scholarships and financial social assistance in October or December, it set an additional deadline to prevent beneficiaries from being deprived of benefits. Employees at social work centres have done overtime work or more, some even at the end of the week. It follows from the reports received by all sixteen centres that the main role has been resolved, that only the Ljubljana Centre for Social Work has the backlog, but the Minister has transferred the local competence to other centres in the country which did not have the backlog. Thus, on this day from the previous 5 thousand 300 outstanding roles of the Ljubljana Centre, there are only 615 other applications, and it is necessary to know that some are not solved because the centres are still waiting to supplement applications, such as proof of the level of income from abroad. This is not recorded in our official records and we do not have access to this data. However, part of this backlog is also due to the lack of response of the parties and this non-response often also affects the duration of the proceedings. But I agree that this is not the main problem. However, in order to avoid the impression that there is chaos at the social work centres, I say that the decision centres issue decisions mostly within a statutory period of two months of the receipt of the application, in particular when it comes to financial social assistance and a protective allowance. In addition, socially disadvantaged families have the advantage of dealing with applications. I don't think that's gonna happen again in the future. 3. A new system will be introduced to facilitate work with documentation for employees. However, it is also approved with an additional frame, so I believe that this should not be the case in the future. However, I must commend the Minister here for being up-to-date and that she is exactly the same about the other issue. I believe that within one year we will see progress, because it also personally accepts people who have problems and really engages themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u16	Yes, Prime Minister, we agree, you are certainly not the only one responsible. This is the work of the former Minister. Partly because the Modern Centre Party then gave the Minister the ultimatum to vote against her interpretation if she prepares a plan within a few months to reorganise social work centres. At that time, we warned that such rapid measures would not bring what was desired. Then it went into reorganization — from 62 centers to 16, which then saved these roles and that was exactly what happened. What you could do is that in June, when it was, I think the union of these workers warned that they were overloaded to postpone the change of this information system and that this collapse would not occur. It would have stalled for a few months, not just at the time of September and October, when the peak of the school year was due to the start of the school year. The current Minister has also repeatedly voiced criticism at the expense of former Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, because we have already warned that the reorganisation of social work centres means nothing more than more than employees for those who are members of the Social Democrats party. That's why, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm interested in: Do you think that on the basis of everything that happened, on the basis of the fact that a mother with three children who gave her role in early September usually received a reply within two weeks, and this time on January 18th, there are still tens of thousands of such cases, is Anja Kopač Dark still suitable for the State Secretary in your office? How is this digitisation and information systems? Last but not least, you also have in your coalition contract that you will try to digitise these routine bureaucratic issues as much as possible if we call it that. How much did all this cost? A few hundred thousand euros were given to two ministries led by ministers from a party of Social Democrats six months before the election of two piranha agencies.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u18	It's not my place to judge who's responsible in the previous government and who's not responsible. I told you what's going on now. I said that the Ministry is working to eliminate backlogs and that there will also be a new system and things, so they assure me that when they start working, they will significantly improve. However, I said that the reorganisation was not set in the right time frame – here we agree – but it is important to ask why this has occurred in one way or another. But it's not my place to judge who's fit for anything today. I've been running an operational government here since September 13th, and if I were to solve everything that happened before, I'd have to say something else here, what happened before, and what didn't happen, but I'm not going to judge today what someone did and what they didn't do, because I have to solve today's problems that are on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you. Yeah, but I can't agree with that. And you proved it yourself. On the basis of an evaluation of the past work, you have assessed the previous mandate, as we have learned from the media, not least that Irena Majcen cannot again be Minister for the Environment, not for Agriculture. This is said to have already been decided by individuals in the current term on the basis of a work that you have assessed somehow in return. I don't know why you can't make up your mind or not, and you're so selective when it comes to the Secretary of State in your office, Dr. Anjo Kopač Dark. Of course, there has been damage, which will in some way be reimbursed. Probably not those who, given how much they have received, either a scholarship or a child allowance in the past year, on this basis planned their expenditure in the last months of the year, even now in January, February, will not be able to recover this. We probably do not expect Anja Kopač Dark to repay this, but some objective responsibility could still be accepted, given that it has been warned what will happen if it is precisely at this time in the reorganisation of this system. On the one hand, I understand if you go to Erar and enter Futura or Accession, you will see that in the last year before the elections hundreds of thousands of euros were allocated to these two pir agencies from the Ministry of Agriculture Futuri, and from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to Accession. I believe that we will also review this issue in the commission, which will be confirmed by the staff composition of this meeting – is it perhaps the financing of a political party's campaign, in this case the Social Democrats? And that, Mr. Prime Minister, I asked you: How much money has it been to reorganise, especially how much for active promotion in the public? We also have a project here, I think it's called Social Activation, just before the parliamentary elections. Such measures are not taken so quickly, especially with all the warnings, but it is obvious that there is a broader story behind here that will need to be verified. I hope that you will, however, follow what you have written in the coalition agreement, that we will not be able to do so again in the coming months, as your government's minister will come to Parliament with a law that will draw, say, the automatic resolution of these applications based on an information system. For all of this, Mr President of the National Assembly, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members and Members be held to discuss the response of the President of the Government to my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. This brings the honourable Members and Members to the third question before the President of the Government. Jernej Vrtovec, Nova Slovenija has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u22	President of the government, good afternoon, as well as the ministers and ministers! The bank hole, respected Prime Minister of the Government, was saved by taxpayers in 2013 at EUR 3 billion plus additional. As a result of the resolution of the situation in Slovenian banks, the so-called bad bank was established at the beginning of 2013 as a result of poor banking practices, clientism, corruption, and literally places of tax money. The purpose of setting up a bad bank was good at the beginning. It was really good as a part, a way to save inherited investments and to clean up banks, so that they would operate normally, so that they could credit the economy and also work for people, natural persons, households. But typical Slovenian, soon after all, this story of a bad bank literally broke. The falcons came back, they smelled the money, and they flew into this pile of money. It's a long way from here. They're domestic and foreign. We also know them from Scandinavia. And instead of normal claims management, what's happening is we're witnessing a new privatisation. I apologize, not for privatisation, but rather for "acceptance" of this part of the property. So it's the same people, we know them, we know them from the bank hole period or earlier. It's the same people who are back here next to this pile. The story of a bad bank, respected Prime Minister of the government, is not something that happened ten years ago. This story is happening today, here and now, even under your government. Let me present the case of one company. There is a company in Slovenia whose owner owed banks about 100 million euros. Therefore, these claims were transferred to a bad bank with a discount of around 20%. And, look at it, let all of us have a known foreign fund, which is established in the tax haven, which then buys these claims and, look at it, the director and owner of this company still leaves there in order to manage his claims as well. The key question is whether you think the fund is so crazy or that it is easy for our Slovenian money, which now comes from tax havens back to the Republic of Slovenia via a bad bank, that these same people come back to the property. My key question, honourable Prime Minister, is: What will the government do to normalize the situation in the DUTB in a bad bank? How she's gonna check out these buyers who come and buy the property [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you. Again, you've made some conclusions that I can agree with, and this really bad bank has become actually what it's called. Let me stress, however, that the basic starting point of the Government regarding the manner in which DUTB operates is the principle of zero tolerance to non-transparent and non-economic activities or possible abuses. As the DUTB Assembly, the government has already joined the measures that will ensure the transparent, economical, efficient and effective functioning of the DUTB. The assets it has acquired from banks must be managed in such a way as to enable it to recover, to the greatest extent possible, the funds of taxpayers invested in the rehabilitation of banks. That's the point. On 6 December last year, the government, as a assembly, took note of a report by the Ministry of Finance on the findings of the control of DUTB in the sale of the land of the former KLI Logatec. It concluded that there have been many irregularities in the sale of real estate and that there have been serious shortcomings in the functioning of the DUTB which prevent the effective functioning of the DUTB. The government has therefore called off the non-executive Director of the DUB Management Board Miho Juhart as Chairman of the DUMB Management Board and appointed two new non-executive directors, Tomaž Beska and Mark Tišmo. At the same meeting, the Government, as the Assembly of the DURB Management Board, also ordered the Executive Board to immediately implement measures to ensure the consistent, efficient, economical and transparent operation of the DUDB, including the identification of the responsibilities of those involved. The Ministry of Finance expects an additional DUTB report in early February, both on the accountability procedures carried out at all levels and on the additional activities planned to improve the coherent and economic performance of the DUTB. Let me also explain that the Ministry of Finance, in the context of the exercise of control over the DUTB, carried out in accordance with the Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, requires appropriate clarifications from the company on all matters in which it detects possible deficiencies in the functioning of the DUTB, including relevant documentation, the implementation of relevant procedures, the improvement of internal acts, the provision of appropriate control mechanisms and the submission of a timetable for implementing measures. The Ministry of Finance also quarterly reports on the supervision carried out to the Government. So we do have a system of control over the DUTB. The government is also planning further improvements. In this way, taking into account the Commission's recommendations to prevent corruption in relation to the appointment procedure and the criteria for selecting non-executive directors, it will complement the DUTB guidelines accordingly. In these guidelines, it will also make appropriate corrections to the provisions relating to the management of property, in particular real estate, and to the strategically important business decisions of the DUTB. The DUTB Statute will also be supplemented, where it will determine even more accurately the competences of non-executive directors. While the DUTB also has a diversified system of internal acts, it is essential that these internal acts are also consistently taken into account and implemented in practice. The shortcomings in this area have been particularly evident in the area of real estate management. I expect that, from now on, even on the basis of the calls made by the Ministry of Finance to the DUTB, these internal acts will also be consistently taken into account at all stages of the decision-making process. The government will therefore do what it can, and I believe that the Commission will also answer many of the questions on the table. I really agree that in the past all the things we've done or have done, well, we haven't, then they've flooded somewhere, and here we have an opportunity to make things better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. That the situation at the bad bank, at the DUTB, is extremely chaotic, you have now received a letter of your own from employees involved in the sale of real estate in which they problem the situation, mutual relations, contentions, and so on. The key is that all of this when we talk about the land concerned may be a smoke screen in front of the worse things that are happening. And let me tell you another story about what's going on, which is illegal, Prime Minister. That the original debtors, those who have been digging the bank hole, now with various manoeuvres, one such example we know from 2015, are coming back to this property and they are the owners back. The case of one company, which owed approximately EUR 100 million, was first the transfer value from the bank to the DUTB discount discount was 40%. And then the bad bank got a new owner. It was some kind of American fund. In 14 days, this American fund made a good profit, this story, the same company in a package with five other Slovenian companies sold to the Russian venture capital fund. And this Russian fund then, look at it, it sold it to a Slovenian company again. The same uncles are the owners of this company again today. I'm also asking you, as I asked you, How will the Government, as the DUTB Assembly, prevent the original debtors from becoming the owners of these companies? This I think is a key question if we want to understand the DUTB issue, in addition to regulating the situation within the DUTB, which you yourself have told me the elements of how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Here you go, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u28	The government as a congregation has already made some moves. The main problem is everywhere we run into problems, but there are people. Definitely with the right shots in the right places. And these are the people who will also prepare appropriate procedures to prevent illegality in order to prevent things that are detrimental to this country. And that's my short answer. We can write what we want if we don't have the right personnel, if we don't have the right personnel, then it's all in vain. I think that all the attention will have to be paid to this area, because we see only ministers in the public, and we don't see any secretary of state, but we don't see those who are in the back, but perhaps the most guilty are the things that they did or because they didn't do it, then we have such and different problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, I will be in violation of the rules of procedure. I have no intention of further deliberating, but only to invite the Prime Minister of the Government to the Government as the DUMB Assembly [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u31	Just one moment, Mr. Ambassador. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u32	helps us to make a success of our research [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u33	Mr. Members, you understand that if you start an announcement, I will violate the rules of procedure that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u34	President, I previously warned you well-intentionedly that I would invite the Prime Minister of the Government to make a successful investigation to hand in hand [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u35	Once again, I ask you to break the rules of procedure, especially with the announcement, is not good and is a very bad example. Thank you very much. This brings us to our fourth question. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Engels wrote: “In all social settings so far, people have worked so hard to live. But we live in capitalism to work." This is especially true in our 21st century. The formula 8+8+8, 8 hours for work, 8 hours for rest, family, recreation and 8 hours for sleep, which was generally established after World War II, is unfortunately collapsing today. And the attack on her is called precarnation. Slovenia has so far accepted overreach with its hands open. Although we have a record number of employees in this country, over a million at present, the record is also the number of forced espions that are actually in a working relationship but work through espionage, that the employer avoids paying the costs of regular work and that the worker can be replaced. Labour agencies, which often send workers on minimum wages here and there, continue to flourish. It must not surprise both of us, since our country has already been a young country, that such working relationships and irregular employment are normal. The normalizer of these relationships is student work. The question I am asking you concerns the country in a narrower sense, because it is also a proponent of the chastity. Institutions such as ministries, state-owned enterprises, public administrations often use so-called outsourcing, i.e. hiring various security guards, cleaners and so on through businesses and agencies. Workers employed through these agencies are often second-rate. They have no rights arising from work and are often subject to abuse. This is illustrated by the recent case of cleaners at the Ministry of Public Administration. They cleaned through the company Cleaning Aqua, d.o.o., and worked in such conditions. They cleaned up every day even 120 square metres of surfaces, did not receive overtime payments, did not have any rest belonging to them. In November and December of last year, they were paid no salary at all, and in October, they received 200 euros of stings, and together, the company owed them a quarter of a million wages and an unknown amount of unpaid contributions. That's why I'm asking you: Or how will you implement the provision that we introduced on the initiative of the Left last year into this year's law on the implementation of budgets, by which we can re-engage these outsourced workers in the public sector? Will you join us in the fight against leniency, or will you support the efforts of the Left not to look at the worker more than merely at the cost and that our country becomes, in a narrow and broader sense, an example of protecting and ensuring workers' rights?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you. The question you are asking is, of course, relevant. Given that I myself had experience in the past with one such cleaning service, which used workers or was a cleaning lady, I did not get paid without knowing how much time, so I know this problem well. Indeed, the country is the first one to do something about such a problem. It is true that ministries, or all institutions, hire or outsource these services if I express myself in English, which is not the most beautiful, but we will have to approach this problem together. In view of the fact that a working group has been set up, which will also deal with the problem of exorcism and such matters, it may not be too difficult in the future to consider setting up an agency and then the State itself will perform these services. As is the case with the protection of buildings, for example, when we do not have after 45 years of soldiers, they must leave the working relationship, and then they could continue their work with the protection of the facilities, because it is also a little funny that the protection of the facilities is carried out by external operators, which also throws a bad light on the country so that it itself is not able to provide these things. However, I must warn you that, on the other hand, there may also be a problem if we employ these workers ourselves. I think that some congregations have gone, too, and I know that New Town has hired cleaners, if I am not mistaken, that there are also questions as to what happens if there is a hospital absence, if there are other things going on and how to do them. This means that more employees need to be replaced. It would therefore be true, as I say, that the state would establish an agency in an integrated manner or whatever we call it, which would then provide such services for facilities belonging to a country. That's worth thinking about. Of course, we will also be open to other proposals, other ideas, and I agree that this must be dealt with. If you don't pay hard-working workers at your firm, it's also worth all the contempt for my notions, because for honest work, fair pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I certainly agree with the establishment of a state agency, but I agree even more with what you said the country should do first. Here I will again point to Aqua, d.o.o., which I mentioned earlier, which cleaned up the Ministry of Public Administration. In 2015, the company received as much as €456,000 through the state and state companies. Purgatory is not only the Ministry of Public Administration, but also the premises of the Department of Forests, Darsa, Post of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice, the Municipality of Koper and even the Employment Institute. This is not the only company yet – we have Manicom, Beki plus, Cleaning, if I mention the affairs in cleaning services. There are many companies that exploit workers and cooperate with the country. That's why I'm asking you: Will you implement what we introduced as an alternative to the Left in article 60 of the Budget Implementation Act last year? This dictatorship states: "Absolute number of employees in 2019 may be increased in the direct or indirect budget user's personnel plan if it comes to the employment of persons engaged in an external activity that has taken over an activity or service that is of a lasting nature." It is said that staff plans can be increased if outsourced workers are employed. This is what the ZIPRS says and is considered to be both direct and indirect budgetary users. But I'm curious, given that the state of law should do something: As Prime Minister of this country, will you direct all budgetary users to do what the ZIPRS says?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u42	Well, I also see a problem in controlling violations. If controls were appropriate, then these companies currently being leased by the State would pay their workers adequately and treat them accordingly. So I think there's a lot to be done on this side. We know the inspectors aren't enough, and then there's the public impression that small fish are being caught by inspections, and the big ones leave it alone. This impression is largely due to the fact that some can actually break indefinitely. And it's not just that area. These are all the areas in Slovenia that the inspections deal with. So I see a big problem in this too. And it will also have to be done, that inspections are not some toothless tigers, but that they can actually do something.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I propose a general debate on this issue for two reasons. The first is that I have not received assurances from the Prime Minister that he will instruct budgetary users to implement this Article of ZIPRS. I think that's something we have to do. The first thing to do is to respect the laws and provisions of the laws we adopt. The second is that the Prime Minister and I have both identified different levels of leniency, from lack of control over companies, to the problem of the Labour Inspectorate, to what I have said at the outset, that penance in the 21st century is unfortunately becoming the standard. We no longer have this formula 3 times 8, it says 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest, family, recreation, and 8 hours of sleep, but we have a man – a reputable man according to the measure of capital. This is no longer at work for eight hours, but it's usually as much as the employer wants. At work, he must often be available if he is missing, unable to keep up, discarded and replaced. Since this guillotine is always hanging over it, we have difficulty getting more and more people prone to depression, anxiety, and similar mental illness that are in fact a social illness. We're getting more and more caught up in the constant compulsion of productivity. Also, vacations and holidays are no longer primarily intended for rest but are increasingly working or working on themselves or improving their competences. It's not just limited to some kind of, like, recreational social group anymore, but it's getting general. I think that this is one of the main social problems that plague our society at multiple levels, so I propose that we take a broad debate on how we will act as the National Assembly against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you, Member, for your suggestion. It will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The last one has a question for the Prime Minister, Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u46	Dear President, thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Following the years of the economic and financial crisis, followed by the social crisis, Slovenia has begun to recover and achieve jealous macroeconomic results within the mandate of the previous government with one of the highest rates of economic growth in the EU. The then government and the National Assembly have taken measures to consolidate public finances, encourage direct investment, and gradually phase out austerity measures with the aim of improving people's lives. All of this has led to some of the results that other European countries, such as record economic growth, budget surpluses, have envied us one of the highest employment rates. Slovenia has somehow become a positive story and example from a public financial patient in many other countries of the European Union. All these positive developments have also been expressed in the credit ratings of world credit rating houses such as Moody's, Standard&Poor's, Fitch, which have increased Slovenia's credit rating since 2015, all of which fostered the cheaper indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia in foreign markets. That is why much of the expensive debt was exchanged with a much cheaper one. We have reached low interest rates through a tactful increase in spending, which has far been lagging behind in revenue growth. This scenario then proved to be effective in view of the sudden decline in the share of public debt in gross social product. There has also been increased confidence in our economy, we have received some new greenfield investments. Despite all the above, there is still much hard work for this government. If we are to achieve the set fiscal targets aimed at the social and legal state, we will also have to reduce public debt and prepare ourselves for the economic cooling that the economists are alerting to, not least the economists and the Fiscal Council. The Fiscal Council points out that Slovenia could find itself in a significantly worse situation if there was a new crisis than it was in 2008. In this regard, I would ask you: How will you manage the country's public financial policy after the 2019 budget balance, which is expected to be supported? What will be the permanent measures to ensure that Slovenia remains on the path of fiscal sustainability?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Restoring Slovenia in the mandate of the previous government, abolishing austerity measures, jealous results, these are your words and undoubtedly hold. The former government has credit, but it also has debts, debts, or legacy left by the new team and is probably part of the concern. I don't want to look back, but there are some things that need to be said. Just before the elections, you helped raise your financial welfare. There's nothing wrong with that, but it's a very talkative moment. Maintaining financial social assistance in the amount set before the elections was the first step of this government. It just couldn't be done back. However, another matter, the legacy, is more costly to begin, but not to conclude negotiations with the strike unions of the public sector. The financial scale was set by the previous government. In some way, she tied her hands together with this government. It was clear that with less money the agreement could not be reached, but we were able to prevent the agreement from costing more. The warnings you provide in this question come from the mouth of a number of experts, in particular with regard to the cooling of the economy. The government knows them and does not underestimate them in any way, but it is true to use the word crisis a little bit cautiously, because with some pessimism all the time, but I am myself before, I will not say that I am a pessimist, but I am a realist, so you know me, I am certainly not a headless optimist that I would jump to the ceiling with every thing and say how great everything is. If you have heard my previous statements, you will admit that I remain in my statements very firmly on the ground, with both legs. I don't want to fly with any predictions and anything else, but if we talk every day about how the crisis is going to come, how bad it's going to be, then every day we scare people, then it's going to be the same as they've been saying that there's nothing going to be with this government, and it's not going to be anything, and it doesn't know, but it doesn't know, and the other doesn't have any experience like that. You have to be a realist in these matters, too. Instead of wondering what it will be like to think the opposite: where to invest, how to break through, and how to achieve results for people and development? Of course, global markets have an important impact on this, especially on our export-oriented economy. We're clear here. The rebalancing will slightly increase the expenditure of the state budget, but only at the expense of increasing revenue. We also expect a little less than 200 million surplus this year. I am personally satisfied that we have been able to meet fiscal criteria and that the last debt of the country was not intended for more use but for an active reduction in public debt. We will come below 70% and successfully reduce public debt as far as possible in the given situation. Almost all the ministries got more money. But that means they've got work to do. So far, as we've been drawing up the budget, everyone's come, if you need this, I need that, I need that third. So much money. But if they don't know where to put this money, then it won't work. That is why there is now hard work to be done by the ministries in order to prepare measures to ensure that this money we give to these ministries also achieve a certain amount of revenue. Comrades of the Left will say that there is still too little socialism, gentlemen on the right will say that it is too social. In short, each eye has its own painter. But nevertheless, I believe that this balance that we are about to accept is, in certain circumstances, optimal. However, in the event of an accidental destabilisation, the world’s factors are also quite successful in some of these types. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u49	The president of the government, too, gets the microphone turned off. Mr. Ambassador, please. Don't you have any more questions? Okay. That's what happens. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I find that the first set, these are questions for the President of the Government, has been completed. I thank the Prime Minister for all the answers he has given. We are now moving on to the parliamentary questions raised at the 2nd and 3rd meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, should answer three questions from the Member States to Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Lidija Ivanuša and Mr Jani Prednik, but she is also absent today. I ask the Member of Parliament whether they insist on an oral response or whether you wish to have a written reply from the Minister. Sing it. You want to talk now? No, no, no. Would you like an oral response? Yeah. It's a deal. The oral reply will be given by the Minister at the 5th regular meeting of the National Assembly. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the question of the Members for Minister Zdravko Počvalska. Mr Minister, you will answer Dr. Darija Krajčič's question regarding the closure of the post office of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u50	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The postal market is liberalised. The provision of universal postal services is governed by the Postal Services Act and the General Act on the quality of the provision of universal postal services. According to the regulations, the procedure for closing mail always begins at the request of the Post Office of Slovenia, never after the official duty. The jurisdiction of the State is limited to determining whether the minimum number of points of contact will be provided in the event of closure. Contact points may be organised as a post office, as a contract post or as a specific organisational form of the point of contact. An administrative procedure shall be carried out to complete the closure of the contact point. The lower limit of the postal network is prescribed by law and two conditions must be met cumulatively. In each municipality in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia there must be at least one contact point organised as a post office or contract post. For 95 % of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, the air distance to the nearest post office or contract post office shall not exceed 4.5 km. Further analyses have also been carried out in cases of compliance with the conditions, which contain an accurate analysis of the reasonable needs of postal users covered by the requested mail. The reasons for closure must be thoroughly substantiated and reasoned. The same is true of the way universal postal service is carried out in the prescribed quality after closure. All of this should be avoided in order to ensure that the prescribed quality of universal postal service does not deteriorate after the closure of the contact point in the area. In recent years, the needs of postal users have changed considerably due to electronic substitution. Due to the strong decline in classical postal services, it is a major challenge for all universal postal service providers to adapt the network to the changing needs of users. In doing so, it should be noted that the density of the postal network in Slovenia is above average. The postal service of Slovenia is formally committed to establishing communication with the local community and to seeking a solution that takes the most into account the reasonable needs of postal users in the local environment, while at the same time allowing the Postal Service of Slovenia to carry out the universal postal service financially in a sustainable manner. The procedure for the proposed closure of the Rečica contact point at Savinja was also carried out according to all described. The post office of Rijeka near Savinja is only two kilometers away from the post office of Nazarje, which is a delivery post for its area. In the vicinity of the post office Rečica there are other posts: Mozire, Ljubno ob Savinji, Gornji Grad and contractual post office Šmartno ob Dreta. In 2015, the post office of Rijeka near Savinja was designed to transform into a contract post office, but this was not the case for a suitable contractual partner. Due to the continuing decline in services, a plan for conversion to mobile mail was drawn up in 2018. The local community, or congregation, was informed of the purpose of the transformation. In December 2018, it was agreed to shift the transformation to the second half of 2019. The search for a suitable contractual partner is still ongoing. If the relevant tenderer is not found, the envisaged conversion to mobile mail is envisaged. This would mean the provision of basic postal services as part of the delivery on the ground. This is a nicer form of business mainly for fewer mobile users, as it is possible to order a visit to the home by telephone. I stress that we will continue to pay particular attention to meeting the reasonable needs of postal users and to ensuring the quality of universal postal services. The postal service users will also be provided with quality universal postal services, as prescribed by law and general acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Members, would you like to ask an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. This one encourages me, I must say. However, when I looked into this area, I also talked to leading people at the post office and with other stakeholders. Somehow I have come to the conclusion that the postal owner, DUTB or SDH, sets only and only financial criteria for achieving certain objectives. However, they deal much less with other elements, which are also within the companies managed by this umbrella organisation. This raises the question whether, when it comes to typical public services, or whether there must be a return in the first place, despite the criteria listed by you, or, nevertheless, shows a broader view of the importance of public services, in particular in areas that are marginal. This gives people a relatively bad feeling on the ground that their mail is being taken away, even if there are not many services in there. They're emotionally tied to that post office, and there are other social stories going on. There is also little mail to do banking through NKBM. So I propose to you, Minister-in-chief, that I also get a proposal from the field to sit down again at the meeting of the shareholders, so is the postmaster, someone from the ministry who is in charge of this, the owner, and see what to do with these mails in the future. That's my suggestion. Of course there can't be a demand. In my constituency, they'll be very pleased if you do this and the post office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Would you like to answer that indirect question?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u54	Dear Member, as I have said, the final decision has been postponed to the second half of 2019. I believe that a deal between the local community and the post office will be made during this interim period and that we will also continue to provide universal postal services in all areas, including in the Savinja region of Rijeka. Of course, we would like to see some kind of contract form. Let us all work together to find such a provider. However, I believe that the Post Office of Slovenia is not only about numbers, but that it really looks at the whole issue. Once again, I stress that the postal service in the Slovenian space is superstandard in the light of the European Commission's requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the next question, namely, the question of the Marrakesh Treaty by Dr Milan Brglez. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u56	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is aware of the importance of the content and the issues addressed by the directive and has already joined the drafting of a legislative amendment. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights was included in a public debate held since 30. Ten. 2018 to 30. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Following the public debate, some further consultations were held with stakeholders who gave their opinions and comments on the basis of which some adjustments were made to the draft law. The bill is currently in the stage of intersectoral coordination and we hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to adopt it within the next two months. After the adoption of the bill in the Government, the law will be forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation of the Directive has been delayed due to coordination with various factors. The purpose of the bill is to extend the exception of copyright and related rights to the benefit of all persons with disabilities, not only blind and visually impaired, but to any disabled persons, in order to produce copies of works in a form adapted to the individual person with disabilities in their circumstances of health impairment. The introduction of new provisions allowing in accordance with the Directive for the exchange of copies adapted to blind and visually impaired persons and other persons with reading disabilities, among authorised entities within the European Union, the European Directive does not allow for the direct exchange of copies in an adapted format between eligible persons, such as blind, visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disorders, such as severe dyslexia, physical disturbance. The solutions proposed will make it easier for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disabilities to access published works protected by copyright or related rights, which will improve the quality of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his answer. In addition to my question, I would like to stress in particular that the early transposition of the directive into our legal order and the implementation of this Marrakesh Treaty on facilitating access to literary works for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading problems are also of exceptional importance to Slovenia. While I welcome this broader approach, I know that this is part of some longer debate, because this matter has not actually started now, but has been going on for a long time. I really hope that within two months this matter will be dealt with in the National Assembly; it is more realistic than most likely in the first half of this year. Of course, if not the interests that have so far been at European level or at Slovenian level, this directive will actually be implemented and the Marrakesh Treaty can also come into force. It is certainly the direct benefit of such users, such as the thousands of 900 users of the Slovenian library of blind and visually impaired Minka Skaberna, which celebrated last year's 100th anniversary. I know it's a matter that everybody would want to sort it out as soon as possible. But, yeah, I want to know: [[…]] Is this resistance in this capital work still as much as it was before at European and our level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u60	In the public consultation, the Ministry also received proposals to further extend the proposed exception to copyright and related rights, namely to establish an exception and restriction on the right to processing, so that the copyright work can also be substantially changed, for example, shorter. We have not been able to follow this because we cannot set a broader exception or restriction for the benefit of persons with disabilities as provided for in the Directive. Copyright and related rights in the information society, which provide for a set of possible exceptions and restrictions on copyright and related rights that a Member State may lay down in its national legislation. I believe that we now have this proposal in line and, as I have said, will come to the Government within two months and then immediately to the National Assembly. We do not see this resistance in that sense here, but what we have now agreed on, I believe it is what we can accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions. Next up, it's mag. Carmen Furman asks the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, distinguished minister and all present! At the end of last year in the social institutions community, it was pointed out that as of January 2019 there will be a need to increase care in nursing homes because the government did not cover the costs of increasing salaries for employees. Now that there will be no misunderstanding, I want to say that we are not opposed to raising wages, but, on the contrary, the lowest paid cadre would have earned more. On the other hand, it is totally unacceptable that the country raises labour costs and does not provide the necessary financial resources and consequently puts this burden on service users. Higher supply prices in this year will have to be paid again by the suppliers and their relatives. Thus, pensioners with their low pensions have not been able to pay home care by now, and this will obviously be even more difficult with unacceptable pensions. Unfortunately, a Slovenian pensioner after 40 and more years of work does not even have to pay for a room in a nursing home. In view of the fact that your ministry is the founder of a home for the elderly and that it is your ministry that finally gives me the consent to raise the prices of home care, the distinguished minister, that I am interested in: How many homes for the elderly did the end of last year and at the beginning of this year have your Ministry of Consent asked to raise the prices of home care services? What will you do as a minister, after all, because you agree to raise prices, to prevent caregivers in nursing homes from continuing to cover the health care costs that the Health Care and Health Insurance Act owes to the Health Insurance Office? The fact is that home care is constantly being auctioned, especially at the expense of the low prices of health services that a health insurance company should pay by law, not or at least not at a sufficient level. However, under the existing home supply price system, I would like to draw attention to another systemic anomaly, namely that prices for the same services at different homes are granted in different amounts. In some cases, it varies up to twice. However, since I believe that the same service should not be charged so many different prices by the institutions, I am interested in: Are you planning to take any action at your ministry in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u64	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. With regard to your question, first of all, I would like to point out that we need to improve the accessibility of services in the field of institutional protection of the elderly. This can only be ensured by the adoption of a system law on long-term care. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities supports and actively cooperates with the Ministry of Health in preparing a proposal for a law on long-term care. In the existing system, which we currently have in institutional protection, basic and social services in the homes for the elderly, that is, as far as housing, nutrition, social care and protection are concerned, the beneficiaries, or their debtors, are family members or municipalities. Health care in homes is financed by a health treasury, namely the Department of Health Insurance. The provision of institutional protection in the home for the elderly shall cover basic and social care, which shall be governed by social protection rules, and health care, which shall be governed by health regulations. The costs of nursing care in nursing homes are covered, as you have already found, by the funds of the Health Insurance Institute. Under the Social Protection Act, basic and social care is payable to beneficiaries and other debtors. On the basis of the Regulation on the criteria for the fixing of exemptions for the payment of social security services in the event of an inability to pay by the beneficiary, the costs of the service shall be borne by family members or municipalities. In the current system, the costs of the service of institutional protection in work relating to basic and social care are not directly covered by the budget and, in the context of its payment capacity, the beneficiary pays. The increase in prices at the beginning of 2019 was due to higher labour costs for employees who carry out basic and social care in nursing homes. Labour costs represent about 50% of the price structure, which means a 4% increase in wages by 2% higher service prices. The State may provide additional resources only to cover that part of the costs resulting from the increase in salaries financed from the budget. That is why we are working very hard to raise the funds allocated to the homes for the elderly by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Let me say here that these are the days when intensive coordination is taking place with the Ministry of Health on the subject in order to achieve an increase in the prices of health services. However, I would like to point out that the fundamental mechanisms of the social state, which fall within the competence of our ministry, have been greatly strengthened in recent times. All austerity measures in the area of family and social policy have been removed. Protection benefits, cash social assistance and a protective allowance for women over 63 years of age and 65 for men have increased.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your explanation, Madam Secretary-General. It is true that I agree that this issue, which the two ministries are dealing with after all, in addition to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the same possibilities as the Ministry of Health and ultimately the insurance company as the payer of health care services, should not, after all, be an excuse for this interdepartmental coordination not to listen to such a pressing problem and, finally, to adopt such a long-term care law. Indeed, since 2012, this issue of pricing in the homes for the elderly and also in your ministry has been constantly highlighted. Prices are rising sharply, but at least so far, the Department of Health Insurance has not contributed sufficient coverage to the law. So, after all, I insist on the answer: What measures, if you can tell me, will your ministry, within your mandate, take to address this issue as soon as possible? After all, given the fact that you are the one who is agreeing to raise prices, I think this is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u67	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u68	I may just say so much in the introduction, as far as intersectoral coordination is concerned, the Health Insurance Institute is independent in price setting. Here we can only try to raise these prices by certain incentives and meetings and by showing the actual situation, which is also clearly mentioned. What is in our power is, on the basis of the Regulation on the methodology for pricing for social security services, I can say that prices are harmonised once a year, about 1 March, and additional harmonisation is possible if labour costs are increased by 1.5%. At the beginning of the year, the Ministry called on all operators to take part in the harmonisation of prices with 1 January only if the revenue of the service due to the increase in labour costs based on the applicable prices does not allow for a sustainable operation until the end of February 2019 and only align the price with 1 March. The Ministry also issued a recommendation that the prices of services should not be increased by more than 2 % from 1 January 2019. I can say that data currently show that 60% of all operators have decided to harmonise prices as of 1 January, taking into account the Ministry's recommendation and opting to raise prices that do not on average exceed 2%. Operators will be able to further increase prices by 1 March due to changes in other elements, prices such as material costs, services, investment maintenance costs, depreciation and financing costs. If I finish. The Ministry of Labour can only make price recommendations here, but it is the institutions that decide. Here, of course, we will try to continue in the future by giving a loud warning to both the Institute of Health Insurance and the institutions themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The Member State shall have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much for supplementing your answer. Still, given the content of the answer I got, I'm not happy. After all, it is a long-standing problem, prices are also raised at the expense of the failure of the health insurance company to comply with its legal obligation. On the other hand, the two ministries in inter-departmental coordination, as I understand it, are not once again in the proper preparation of the long-term care law. I would therefore like to take advantage of the possibility of further discussion under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. However, we continue with the new question put by Mr Blaž Pavlin, Minister of Infrastructure of Mags. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you for your word! Dear Madam Secretary! During the last month, there was a lot of talk about the construction of the third development axis on its northern part, according to work to connect Koroška with the highway or the Maribor-Ljubljana motorway. However, in the discussions on the construction of the third development axis, I miss discussions and plans on the construction of the third development axis in its southern part. Construction of the south leg from Vinica to the New Town and motorway Ljubljana–Brežje is very important for the development of the economy of the White Landscape and Dolenjska. The construction is supported by all municipalities in this part of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina and the people living in this region. As soon as the previous construction and state roads have been built, it would also help to return young educated people after studying back to White Krajina. The route is already spaced, at least in the larger part. The former Minister of Transport promised in 2017 that the construction would start in 2019 and be completed by 2023. That's why I want to know: At what stage is the construction of the southern part of the third development axis? Are these hands still holding? Is there anything more known about the route in its southern part, from Chernobyl to the border crossing of Vinica? The rapid start of construction is also important due to the use of European funds. I also want to know: Which direction is the Ministry's thinking on the central part of the third development axis to connect Zasavje and Posavje with a faster and safer road connection with Celje, on the one hand, and Ljubljana or Novo mesto on the other? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much! Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much, thank you very much and thank you for asking. The honourable Member, as you know, is the third development axis of this government's priority infrastructure project, this coalition. The activities are carried out throughout the project – north, central and southern, with dynamics that depend mainly on the traffic loads of the network in each area. The project of the southern part of the third development axis, from the A2 motorway to the border with the Republic of Croatia, takes place within three separate sections. On the first section from the A2 motorway to the Malina connection, on the second section from the Malina connection to Metlika, with the leg to Črnomlje, and on the third section from Črnomlje to Vinica. The first section from the A2 to the Gorjanci motorway or the Malina connection is designed as a four - lane road, a fast road 17.9 kilometers long. The entire route is divided into four stages and construction is envisaged in two phases. The first phase spans the first and second stages, with a length of 5.5 kilometres and a second phase with a length of 12.4 kilometers. For the first phase of the new road connection from the A2 to the Osredka motorway in the framework of the preparatory works, the acquisition of real estate, the preparation of project and investment documentation for the route and bridge facilities across the Krka River and other field research necessary for the start of construction. Acquisition of construction approval is foreseen in the first half of this year and this year also the beginning of construction. This section is expected to be completed and dedicated to transport by the end of 2022. For the second phase of the project, these are stages 3 and 4, from Osredka to Malin, based on the documentation produced so far, a decision has been taken on the most appropriate scenario for further implementation, where the road will already be built in a full four-band profile. The construction of this section, including the tunnel through Gorjance, is foreseen in 2022-2026. At the section from the connection of Malina to Metlika or Montenegro, the spatial placement process is completed. The Republic of Croatia shall be coordinated with regard to the accession to their motorway network. On the basis of a defined and mutually coordinated interconnective transport direction, spatial placement activities in the direction of Vinice, the identification of the priority direction and the activities to determine the investor in this priority direction will continue. In the middle of the third development axis, from the A1 motorway at Celje to the A2 motorway at Novi mesto, in 2008, when the options for the whole project were developed from Austria to Croatia, 10 variants were evaluated and compared. All versions started on the A1 motorway and ended with a link to the A2 motorway. They were found in three corridors, in the western, central and eastern corridors. The variant in the central corridor was considered to be the most appropriate, with the route from the A1 motorway across Celje, Laško and the Wall Bridge, further across the Market, Mokronoga and Šmarješke Spalice to the New City. The course of this option is also up to date after the 2016 completed version study, which was also publicised. The proposed solution under this option is the new construction of a two-lane road with the possibility of future expansion into a four-lane, approximately 57 km long. In the context of comparative variants, a variant of the route through existing roads with partial bottleneck reconstructions and a variant with a significantly larger scope of new constructions was also examined as compared first. Currently, the variant study is complemented by a hydrological and hydraulic study, flood safety maps and comments made in the public decommissioning process. The adoption of the decision on the most appropriate option is foreseen at the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your answer. Let's keep asking questions. Dr. Franz Trcek will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. And also to the Minister for Environment and Space, as I have foretold. My question concerns the state spatial plan for the expansion of Maribor Airport. You probably know if something like this happens, if there are over 140 proposals, comments on the DN, if the five municipalities respond, then the MEP from Maribor burns the cell and that such a question is more than necessary and necessary. If we look a little, I hope even to say, the unfortunate backdrop of the story of this airport could have been 25 years ago when a weapon was found there, which was intended otherwise to break the ring in Sarajevo; if then Slovenian and Croatian politics were a little smarter, there would not have been such a long trauma to Sarajevo's siege. But let's just let it stop. Quite a few state investments, some experience from our end with Magna's placement, when certain people were stigmatized as eco-terrorists, even after all some, today we can say, fairy tales, the mega-Romanian plans of the former mayor who spoke there about the decommissioning of planes, and so on. Of course, then there is actually some fear of people. If we add to this the fact that, according to some variants, it is planned that this cargo airport, which will have more cargo than the Danube, because even the court has banned such enlargement, we are actually wondering where we are and how this story will go forward and how the Minister and Minister will respond to a number of proposals. Now we have another final story, a waiver of a contractual relationship, which may also be a form of pressure from a Chinese actor who was present there. All these stunts, if I put it that way, people are worried. And finally, if there's any more cargo for the airport, you know, it's something else for us who live there, like a few times a month some aircraft is trained to take off, land, which is also some pollution of the environment, when some Antons, the tupoles, are killed there, it's going to be a whole other or a third story. I hope to receive satisfactory answers, as well as many from our district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. First of all, she will give her answer, Madam Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much to the Member for this question. I agree that we can say a 25-year-old more or less unsuccessful story of this airport. The lease concluded in March 2017 for a period of 15 years with the possibility of a five-year extension with a Chinese tenant will be terminated at the request of the same Chinese tenant. Why is that pressure? I don't know. The Chinese tenant will be able to answer that. I was surprised by the fact that the contract had been concluded for 15 years and, in fact, nothing had changed in the meantime, but they wanted to tear it apart rather than in two years. Of course, they have this right under the contract, the state has fulfilled all the commitments we have made with the contract, so that I do not think that the action is in any way in any way in question. What are the odds? It is said that a new lease relationship, public-private partnership or perhaps also sale of Maribor Airport, so that we all have to ask ourselves together whether, in the current situation as it is today, there is no change in the State Spatial Plan, any interest in transport at this airport can be guaranteed at all. Once again, I would like to point out that the State has fulfilled all the contractual obligations. I met with Chinese tenants when they fulfilled their obligations, and I regret that the promises were so ambitious that they did not actually realize what they had promised, nor in a smaller part. As far as the spatial plan is concerned, Minister Leben will answer, but we have, and I will say this now, I think that a joint meeting was convened on Thursday with our colleagues, where we will also look very carefully at what we can do, not to say we have to do with a bunch of comments that have been submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you, Member Trcek, for that question. As environmental minister, I will focus on the content of the State Spatial Plan, because we, as the Ministry of Environment and Space, are carrying the process itself, and the content, as the Minister has already said, we work with her colleagues. Therefore, it is good to say little about the process itself. In mid-December, there was a public decomposition for the State Spatial Plan for Maribor Airport, and the public hearing itself was 22. 11th year last year. At present, they are in the position to comment on the public decommissioning to be completed in mid-February. We have a 60-day legal deadline to define that. According to my experience from other spatial plans, including from abroad, 140 comments for one airport are not large, but all of them need to be processed and also for those who have not been explained why it has not been taken into account. The most comments concern noise, air, drinking water, agricultural land. What I've been watching a little while the comments were coming into the house is my first conclusion, my greatest fear, because people don't know what's going to happen there. This also means that our first point is that we need to know what will be done there so that you can start talking more actively with local communities. Of course, the most important thing for me as an environmental minister is that the investor takes into account the mitigating measures set out in the environmental report. This means that we will say that it can operate during the afternoon, at night, to hold on to noise levels, anti-group protection and so on. As regards the conclusion of the VAT preparation itself, a positive decision on the acceptability of impacts must be obtained. This means completing the whole process of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and, of course, obtaining positive opinions from all participating state and local space regulators. Then there are no further obstacles to the DPN itself. So, as far as the procedure is concerned, the matter is in the final stage and we will continue with the ministry if that is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Duck, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Well, I thank both of you for saying very frankly that we don't really know what's going on there yet. And that's what people care about after all. After all, this is also due to the lack of some developmental planning of this country. I personally know that some place where the car industry works needs 200,000 cars, if it's not a niche to make it work. Everyone who understands infrastructure a little knows why Magni liked it. I also know that by the end of the '80s there was talk about a global car from where all the parts came from. Madam Minister, you said at the hearing, here we agree, quote: "I would personally like passenger traffic to come to life on that part, but somehow it does not show the best. It would make sense to consider, given that one of the priorities on the Maribor-Sentil railway infrastructure is to somehow direct that airport to freight transport.» And this is actually some concern of the local community. Actually, because you're in some fog, in some kind of ignorance. Well, you know that Left will not be inclined to sell this airport just like that, as the lady mentioned, one of the departmental ministers, of two of them, but you know, if this is going on in the story of some more serious freight traffic, that means a much more widespread influential area and a whole range of consequences that actually come from it. And it is no coincidence that there is a battle here, for example, also an airport in the city of Gradec, which we know more than Graz, when these kind of summers are limited and so on. I think there's a whole story that still requires a whole bunch of answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The reply will be completed by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u84	I'm actually gonna have to repeat myself a little bit. This tenant kind of promised a million passengers, so, I guess, 50,000 tons of cargo by a certain year. I've told you what three possibilities there are for this airport to stay alive in the first place. A million euros is about to cost the country annually if we don't get a new tenant to manage it. So we really need to know together what we are going to do there, what we want to do, to adjust the state space plan. However, if we all find together that the airport does not have a future, there is probably a step that can be taken further. That the country has been giving millions of euros for years and years so that there are no passengers and no cargo, but we can all probably ask ourselves together whether it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u86	As for the development of that area, we know that we have Magno, we know that infrastructure connects to Magna, because one of the measures is railway transport. This track can then continue to the airport itself, but as the Minister has said, we need the input data first so that we can plan on how to proceed with the state spatial plan itself. I would not be afraid, however, because we know that foreign larger airports also have different modes of take-offs, landings and so on, but all of this logistics is then connected and made on the basis of what is happening at the airport. The VAT started on the basis of an investment initiative and a lease. Like the secretary said, we'll sit down on Thursday, and then we'll figure out how to proceed with the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Duck, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u88	Yeah, sure, 'cause I'd get beat up at home if I didn't have one, in a wider environment. Of course, I will take advantage of an opportunity the Rules of Procedure have given me to discuss this with the National Assembly. But we actually have some situation now that the DN is doing, some story that was promised is shut down or is half shut down, and it can also be some kind of tactic of these Chinese owners. It's actually more of a story that Owl has to do, by the way. Now I know out loud that we can't talk about this. And this is a kind of school example of how this is not done. We should basically know what we're going to do there, then we'll go to some D.N.A., then we'll go into some kind of space. Of course, little, if you want a Scandinavian or Dutch approach, how to involve local communities in this, would not hurt either. I could now read here what they concluded, I don't know, in the Municipality of Miklavž, that they want this to remain some regional airport that is supposed to have up to 600,000 passengers, without expanding in the direction of freight traffic, freight airport. These are some purely legal, legitimate interests of local communities that politics must face. I also agree here with Madam Minister, so to throw a million here, to throw a million there, you know, I as a referee now, I don't know, I'd rather buy new beds for this million for dialysis, not from some supplier who's going bankrupt in a year or two. I therefore call for a debate to be held at the next meeting, and I hope, in the meantime, that this will be voted on so far as it is possible for the two key ministers, who have made a very frank statement on the state of affairs, to have some more input information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We continue to ask Mr Brane Golubovic, Minister of Finance Andre Bertonclj, the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. By the end of 2017, the Union of Free Trade Unions and the Chamber of Commerce had presented an initiative at the press conference to further ease the annual holiday regression, and had also proposed that the Ministry should seriously consider tax evasion of 13 and 14 salaries. This was more specifically October 2017. The Ministry of Finance then stated in its reply that it was aware of the importance of the remuneration of employees, that it needed some time to carry out certain analyses and considerations. It's been a while. And at that time, I believe there was a need for analysis, that there was enough time for reflection. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Does the government plan to amend the law this year, which will fully relieve the annual leave regression of up to 100 % of the average salary this year, desiring that this change will come into force this year and that the regress will be less taxed already this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u92	Mr Member, thank you for the question. We agree that it is necessary to approach the search for comprehensive solutions in the direction of workload. Among them, this may also be a relief of the regression with social security contributions at the current level of 70 % of the average wage on the estimated 100 % of the average wage. We know that measures to relieve labour are necessary, and we will make sure that employees receive more. We are aware that, as the first burden of work, it is certainly an activity that affects competitiveness between tax measures, as shown by OECD studies and other organisations, which show that the burden of work is problematic in two respects, such as the pressure on the cost of work and the deterioration of the international competitiveness of companies and thus the country and the second risk of increasing the grey economy. However, these steps must be well thought out and coordinated with the social partners. Together, we need to find appropriate solutions with the envisaged measures in the areas of health care, pension insurance and long-term care. It will also depend on the constructive nature of these dialogues in the final phase of how far we can go in deploring work and with what measures. Nevertheless, we can say that, at the same time, at the Ministry of Finance, we will also advocate measures to relieve work of as general a nature as possible: tax classes, tax rates, general relief. And the regression of social security contributions from the current level of 70% to 100% of the average wage will have effects on public finances, which I estimate will be relatively neutral. This will reduce income from social security contributions and, on the other hand, we will have slightly more income from income and corporate income tax. Nevertheless, we must not forget the basic objective, which is that employees will get more, which means they will have more available income. The measure is envisaged as part of the already announced comprehensive tax optimisation and the proposal is expected to be presented within one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by Mrs Susana Leup Šimenko, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I hope the Secretary-General walks into the hall any minute. We know he's here somewhere. My question will relate to coherent regional development. We know there's a lot of talk about this, and we often highlight this area, but the figures actually show that the situation in the area of coherent regional development is far from encouraging and that we can actually talk about coherent regional development. If we look at just the differences in the development of the Eastern and Western regions, the Eastern region reaches about 67% of the European average, while the Western region reaches 97%. In 2008, we reached significantly higher percentages, and finally in the Western region we exceeded the European average and reached as much as 109%. Slovenia has the best Central Slovenian region, which exceeds the European average as well as the Slovenian average, and the Zasavski region is very poor, reaching only 43% of the European average, Pomurska region only 55% and Podravska region only 67%. Of course, data is far from encouraging. It is very similar when we look at the development threat index, because we see that the highest in the Pomurska region is 164%, it is also very high in Zasavska, Primorsko-intranijski, Podravski, Koroški and so on. The lowest is, of course, in the Central Slovenian region, 36. The first problem is therefore consistent regional development. The second problem I want to raise here is this. I wonder what you will do, Mr. Secretary, for a more coherent regional development in Slovenia? Second of all, I'm interested in borderline areas. I also come from such an area, more specifically from the Haloz area, and I know what problems these areas face. In the first place are all these areas, we can look at a picture of the whole of Slovenia, under average developed. These are areas where jobs are actually lacking. These are areas that are extremely sparsely populated. And there are a lot of these areas in the Natura 2000 area. I want to know: What are the concrete incentives for problem areas that do not achieve development in the Republic of Slovenia? And on the other hand, I want to know: What will you do to promote tourism in these areas? We know that in this area, in the field of tourism, we could do much more. This could create new jobs, which, of course, also means that in the future we could somehow raise the population in this area. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u96	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Your Honor, thank you for asking. Regional policy has been very active over the last year. In practice, European instruments CLLD and CTN have been developed. The first is for local development and the second for urban development. In rural areas, the Ministry responsible for agriculture shall implement the CLLD approach by means of the European Agricultural Fund. In smaller cities and urban areas, we are implementing the CLLD tool at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, through the European Regional Fund. With regard to this part of the CLLD implemented by the Ministry, 246 applications were received by the end of 2018, 153 projects were confirmed and 150 co-financing contracts were concluded with beneficiaries. I have no information that there would be any problems in the implementation of this work. In 2018, he also entered into a practical agreement for the development of regions, which is a new instrument of regional policy under the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. This is supposed to be a new law in the implementation of regional policy. It is, however, a co-financing of the implementation of the 2014-2020 regional development programmes in twelve development regions. Regional and national projects are supported to activate the development capacities of the regions and address their greatest development barriers. In 2018 we signed all 12 agreements for the development of the regions and some have already been completed with new projects. From European funds, 212 projects are co-financed by the country's total co-financing of EUR 383.3 million, EUR 109.5 million in the Western region and EUR 237 million in the Eastern cohesion region. The total number of projects in the regional development arrangements is 241 in total €480 million. In addition to this, we implement all programmes in problem areas with high unemployment, Maribor with a wider environment, Pomurje, Po Kolopje, the area of the municipalities of Hrastnik, Radeče and Trbovlje, the programmes for the areas of Hungarian and Italian national communities and we co-finance the municipal equipment of Roma settlements. In the last year, we are also paying attention to the border problem area. By 25. 1. An invitation to tender for favourable loans in those areas was opened in 2019. At the latest deadline, an additional EUR 388,000 of favourable long-term business loans with a fixed interest rate of 0.01% per year is available. In addition to extremely favourable interest rates, the call also provides applicants with favourable terms for the collateralisation of loans which, in the case of well-standing companies, can also be carried out with the project itself, e.g. a machine. In 2019 the Slovenian Regional Development Fund is expected to re-publish the call for area problems. For 2019, there is also a public call in border areas to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of tourism in order to increase their substantive and energy efficiency. The aim is to increase energy and material efficiency in 60 tourist facilities, and the amount of allocated funds for 2019 and 2020 amounts to €8 million. Finally, we are also preparing a new regulation on the implementation of endogenous regional policy measures, with which we want to introduce a programming approach also for border problems in the area. The aim of the coordinated programme is to combine the incentives of various ministries or policies and to carry out some major projects in border areas of concern. We would be particularly pleased if we could revitalize some of the functionally degraded areas and start a new economic activity there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ambassador, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, I agree that, if what is important, it is really important that the various resources be brought together and that we are actually somehow targeted to help individual areas both in the field of agriculture and the economy and so on, culture. Of course, there are many of these measures. In particular, I have already highlighted the Haloz area, we know what the problems are, we still have problems with the broadband internet in particular. Here, in the framework of rural development, funds are somehow provided. We also know what you mentioned – an agreement for the development of the regions. This is a new approach, the co-ordinator of which is the Ministry of the Economy and, of course, we welcome it, but somehow we are afraid, because we are actually extremely slow to draw on these European funds, that many of these projects, which are somehow signed to date, will not be implemented at the right time. That's why, of course, I'm interested in: Will it be possible to complement the new projects at the same time? Because especially in these problems of border areas there are projects that they have prepared, so we can say, in stock, quite a lot. As familiar as I am and as we really want them. We know that a number of calls are made in ways that are only suitable for cities or are suitable, I don't know, for larger farmers. It is usually the smaller ones in these areas that fall out of individual invitations to tender. I'd still like to know: What are the other concrete incentives that we can look forward to in the years 2019-2020 and which will be useful for these border areas? What will be concrete about promoting tourism? When we look at whether we are present at individual fairs, we can see that more or less of the same destinations are being promoted. Haloze is also a really beautiful tourist destination, but unfortunately I haven't found anywhere yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u100	Dear Member, first of all, about the promotion of tourism. The more we move away from our country, the more important it is to promote the country as a whole — a green, active and healthy destination for five-star experiences. I believe that, in the last period since we accelerated the promotion of Slovenia in foreign markets, we have in some way equally focused on Slovenia as a whole that we have 5 or 6 main promotional recognizable pillars, which we associate with Slovenia, but in all this we give the same weight to a wider state offer. Finally, it will be a key opportunity to implement problem areas with our approach that we will be a European gastronomic region in 2020. As I said, we also have direct access to tourism in problem areas to these 8 million funds for energy rehabilitation of tourist facilities. In all other matters, we give additional weight in some way to the problem and border areas. From the total, purely specific amount of €250 million this year, this is an economy, 150 million new calls and 100 million from previous years' tenders, which are mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises, can also account for borderline, borderline problems in the areas, because, if applied for, they are also preferred to be treated in this context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We continue to do so with the questions of the Member States. The next is Mr Jani Ivanuša, who will raise the question to the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u102	Nice greetings to all present, Mr. Minister, honourable Vice-President, and all Members and Members, as far as we are concerned, all others are present! I ask again the question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Poklukar, on the subject of Ormož. We're back at the border crossing, last time we were, today we're at the interstate border crossing in Ormož on the side of Croatia through Drava, a lot of people don't even know it, and it's hard to get a lot of people to Ormož, because we don't have highways and so on. Mainly, I am asking about the regulation of this border crossing, which has essentially been going on for about two years or has not started at all. A new eastern bond was built in Ormož at that time, and it is totally inadequate for this border crossing point. Today we have this border crossing towards the west of Ormož, towards the city across the railway line, which is reversed, it is said that it is easier to illustrate that it is facing west and the eastern bypass is behind this border crossing. And it's certainly not going to happen, so I'm asking about this border crossing, because these spaces are totally used, destroyed or used up, the hygiene situation is bad. In the summers snakes appear and so on, in winter they now have huge mice, and some rodents are there, maybe some heathens, but in fact these spaces are messy, in fact they need to be renovated. As this also applies to the Ministry of Infrastructure, since the railway crossing is supposed to close to the west and then only this eastern bypass will remain, I ask the Minister: When will this border crossing in Ormož begin to be seriously regulated? We're asking for a time stamp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much, distinguished Member for your question. It is true, I agree that these premises, according to my information and conduct, are not appropriate, so they assured me at the police. In fact, at one of the visits in this part, I would also like to take a look at this border crossing. The Ormož border crossing belongs to a category of border crossings where EU law allows EU citizens and their family members and citizens of EFTA countries to have the right to move freely. In addition to passenger transport, a movement of goods vehicles not exceeding 3.5 tonnes by weight is allowed at the border crossing point. Last year, 86 thousand 449 passengers passed the border at the Ormož border crossing, of which 35,000 were citizens of Slovenia, remaining EU citizens. The railway line from Croatia to Ormož runs through the border crossing of the Centre near Drava. Last year, 396 passengers crossed the border. At the border crossing Ormož, border control shall be carried out in one stop with the Croatian security authorities. Despite the poor working conditions, police officers carry out border checks in accordance with Schengen standards and with specific problems at this border crossing point, the police do not register. It is true, I agree that the conditions for work are poor, but real property is within the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration and not the Ministry of Internal Affairs. However, when I looked into it, I must actually say that the border crossing of Ormož is in the stage of obtaining a building permit and investment works. This, in fact, I am pleased and I believe that the reconstruction of the border crossing of Ormož in the process of obtaining the operator's permit for works of craft will also begin this year. It is true, however, that these works are within the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration and not the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u106	Yeah, that's all I'd ask. If I understand you correctly, this year, this is 2019, it will start to build or not a month. Is it just an anniversary? Is there a moon in the frame, or is it just a year? That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u108	According to my information, which I have from the Ministry of Public Administration, and I do not want to interfere with the competence of another ministry, it is that an open contract is open until 4 February 2019, which accepts tenders. The decision on the selected tenderer is expected to be known by the end of February and the start of construction, craft and installation works in early March. So in 2019 procedures for the new border crossing Ormož have already started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We continue with questions to the Minister of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. Mag. Ksenia Klampfer will ask Mr Sonibo Knezak a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you. Dear Minister, even in Slovenia, we are facing a trend when the population is getting older and, of course, the proportion of the population over 35 is also increasing, with the share of the population declining in the active age. The proportion of people over 65 years of age is expected to double over the next 35 years and is expected to represent almost 30 per cent of the population in Slovenia in 2050. The data on the extension of life is, of course, encouraging, but at the same time, it raises questions about whether we as a society are prepared for this phenomenon. Older population services will increase significantly over the coming years in a number of areas. Today I have questions about the home care of the elderly, which I believe is relatively well regulated in Slovenia. Nevertheless, an increasing number of older ones want to survive in their home environment or in this home environment as long as possible. The growing population in Slovenia will need increasingly orderly and time-consuming homes, especially adequate care. Following the adoption of new standards and standards, some homes that were built years ago do not achieve these standards and standards and will not be able to achieve them until 2021 without the assistance of the State. As a result, home care, home care will have to be properly organised, or after the end of this transitional period of 2021, in accordance with adopted standards and standards, some older people's homes will have to be properly redesigned, taking into account the usefulness of redesigning such a home at an existing location both from a technical and from a financial point of view. Dear Minister, I ask you: How will these matters be dealt with primarily from the point of view of State funding? Will you step in front of local communities who will arrange for participation in the construction or remodeling of homes? At the same time, I would like to highlight the case of the elderly at home in Hrastnik, who, despite some improvements made by the Secretariat, still faces problems related to economies of scale, insufficient beds and inadequate spatial conditions. The local community has prepared and, with the Ministry, put into consideration the relevant document, which shows that it is more rational and efficient to choose a new location, which is the result of the construction of a new home. At the same time, it should be stressed that the local community is prepared to cooperate in a variety of ways, from preparing the project to having the area set up by the municipal and infrastructure authorities. In this regard, Madam Secretary, I ask you a question: After or after the validation of DIIP in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, will funds for the production of investment and PGD, PZI documentation for the construction of a new home be older in Hrastnik, which we believe is not only of local importance, but also of wider regional importance in providing quality living and service conditions for the entire older population at our end? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you so much for asking. With regard to the proposal to build a new home in Hrastnik, I would like to point out in the introduction that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has received an ideal design for the home of older citizens of Hrastnik. The idea of a new home for older citizens Hrastnik is part of the professional basis for the construction of the municipal detailed spatial plan of Hrastnik Municipality. At the Ministry, after a review of the submitted facility, we found that the design of the facility is in line with the requirements of the Regulation on Minimum Technical Requirements for Operators of Social Protection Services and is an appropriate professional basis for the preparation of the OPPN Municipality of Hrastnik. With regard to your question, I would like to point out that the validation of the concept is only the basis for the municipal spatial plan. The identification document of the investment project, so-called DIIP, has not yet been produced for a new facility by the Public Institute of the House of Older Citizens of Hrastnik and forwarded for consideration to the Ministry. There are no additional funds available for investments in nursing homes in the 2019 budget balance, and therefore the available budgetary resources do not allow the construction of new homes for the elderly. However, I would like to stress that in preparing the budget in the coming years, I will endeavour to provide additional budgetary resources for investing in homes for the elderly. However, as regards the harmonisation of the minimum technical requirements of the living standard for social security service providers whose deadline is set until 2021, I have already appointed a working group at the Ministry to prepare a draft amending Regulation on minimum technical requirements for social security service providers. The deadline for harmonisation of technical conditions, i.e. the living standard, will be extended for social security service providers, in particular due to too low budget allocations to invest in homes for older persons from 2010 onwards. Over the past 10 years, the Ministry has invested approximately 39 million investment and investment support funds in all homes for the elderly. Implementation is falling and from 2011 onwards does not allow technical requirements to be brought closer to the Regulation. In 2017, the State did not allocate funds for nursing homes. I would therefore like to stress, as it has been said, that in preparing budgets in the coming years I will endeavour to provide additional budgetary resources for investing in homes for the elderly. As it is said, however, we will, of course, move the deadline from the rule to a later period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. In part you have corrected me, of course, first of all is the basis for regulating spatial plans in the congregation itself. This is also a process that is likely to take about a year. But I'm glad you're aware that there's a problem. And I firmly believe that by the end of the relevant period we will also be able to resolve it. But I have three additional questions if you have information: How many homes for older people in Slovenia do they currently fail to meet standards and standards? What will happen to those homes that will not meet new standards and standards after a transitional period? And the last one: Will the Ministry provide funds from the budget for the construction of new homes according to the need or in what way should the construction of new homes be financed in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you. I do not currently have specific information on how many homes do not meet these standards. But we can get them to you by e-mail tomorrow. What will happen to those of course who do not? As has already been said, we will prepare an amendment to the rules and deadlines set in 2021 to try to postpone it and, of course, put it in some way realistically, in accordance with the budgetary resources that are allowed to go into the necessary investments. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. All representatives of the Government and fellow Members and Members of Parliament are warmly welcomed! I'm interested in the number of new employees in the state administration, according to 13. 9. 2018, who did this government come into play? And please, Cabinet, we understand that the Minister is bringing his people in for his work and how many others have been employed at that time. How much money is needed for their salaries? How do you plan, given that we are always talking about the fact that there are too many employees in the public administration and that Zuif and other measures have been taken in the past to at least those who qualify for retirement? But here's where new jobs come in. I understand that some of these new jobs must, of course, be, because if you want to carry out your programme, only those people who believe in it can do it, but not someone who comes from even another political option. But I would still ask for the ministries and the distribution of jobs and everything else. I wonder if there were any invitations to tender in this regard? How did it get hired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Madam Member, the Ministry of Public Administration, within the framework of the Central Staff Register of the State Administration for the implementation of the Staff Resources Management Policy, shall keep certain personnel data for the authorities of the State administration for the calculation of salaries and performance of other employer obligations and for the decision-making of the rights and obligations of the labour relations. The number of authorised posts in the authorities of the State of Administration shall be determined for each public administration body by a common staff plan of the public administrations for each year. Perhaps I would first like to provide you with information on the current state of employment throughout the state administration. Data on the number of employees under the common staff plan in the public administration authorities shall be monitored monthly and made publicly available on the OPSI website. That means anyone can see and get that information. Last published data, data come from approximately one month delay due to processing, from 13 September 2018 to 1 December 2018, the number of employees in the public administration authorities remained unchanged. However, if I am more precise, it has changed, reducing it by one employee. On 13 September, 30 thousand 435 workers were employed and 30 thousand 434 were employed on 1 December 2018. As regards the cabinet employment of which you ask the honourable Member, there is no particular record of this. We have tried today, given that the question came into question on Friday afternoon, we have tried over the weekend to obtain as much up-to-date information as possible on the condition of staff in the cabinets. Let me tell you, you probably know that there are a maximum of 5 employees for jobs to be trusted in each cabinet of the minister. So, after today's data collected, employees are to be trusted, i.e. on a mandate, across all ministries, a total of 72. In fact, this is significantly less than these allowed quotas, 5 per cabinet, mainly because individual ministries, including our own in the cabinets of their ministries, have hired or re-employed people who have already worked either in the same way or in the ministry or elsewhere in the state administration. We have some such cases at the Ministry of Public Administration and also at some other ministries. The number of employees in the state administration has not increased due to cabinet employment. On the other hand, we are also, of course, striving and encouraging all ministries or all state authorities to increase the fluctuation, to increase the migration of employees within the state administration itself, so that we do not seek immediate employment with a call for proposals for any need for possible work in a given job, either way with a common staff plan, but within the state administration, we are looking for reserves and thus re-employing people, of course if they want to, and if they see new challenges in this regard. Perhaps only information for the public sector as a whole over the period. According to data, the total number of employees in the public sector was calculated on the basis of data on the amount of hours paid in October 2018, when we recorded 168 thousand 920 employees in relation to the month of September 2018, when we recorded 169 thousand 943 employees, decreased by a good thousand employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u121	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. The Member State shall have a request to supplement the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you. You said the number of employees hasn't changed, but we have information that new people have come to the Ministry and they haven't all come from somewhere else. I was wondering how many of these have been new since September 13th. But I understand that someone has gone to retirement, and so in the end, the number may not be higher. That's one thing. Second, we are also told that some do not meet the conditions or do not have the job they occupy, which is why those who are already in the ministries meet. For which I have a few ministries, I have this information. You may also be sent in writing to be a little more precise [[…]] And that's what I'm interested in: Will you reduce the number of employees? What's your plan? We keep saying that if the government doesn't get one, I'll say, the percentage it intends to reduce, then that usually doesn't happen. We know that quite a number of new jobs have taken place in the previous term, and quite a few new employees. Well, at this time, you said in one year that a thousand less. I'll take a look at that. I don't have that kind of information. I want to know: Do you have any idea how many employees you want to reduce public administration in the next four years and in what way?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. As it is said, of course, new people have come to the cabinets of individual ministries. I gave you the number. In the coming days, we will really try to update this data even more, and we will also send it to you in writing in a very short time, if you agree. Even with all the value of their wages. Of course, it did not increase because these are fixed-term jobs. And when the government switched, of course, from the cabinets, people employed for a certain period of time also left the state administration. This account did not increase the number of employees in the state administration. As far as the qualifications of individual employees are concerned. It's hard for me to judge. There are criteria, there are requirements for certain qualifications when hiring cabinets. But it is true that these are not jobs through public calls, but to trust. And it's very difficult for me to judge the entire department now. I can argue for the Ministry of Public Administration that this is not the case and I hope to stand for it. As for the reduction in the number of employees in the state administration, of course it is absolutely, I will say, the tendency of each government, this government absolutely, to reduce this number. We have quantified in numbers or percentages, and by some natural ways since retirement – and I would like to stress this in particular – the transition of people from the state or public administration to the real sector, in the real sector for certain qualifications, the conditions of employment and wages are now more favourable and people are also leaving the public administration. On the other hand, there are some problems that will, however, force us to do new jobs in the future. You know about the big problems, the human resources problems. Now we've solved the problem of law enforcement. The great staff manoeuvring is practically in this country in the field of all inspectors. So now it is difficult to say how much will be reduced, given that at least these humanely weak ones will be required. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u126	I thank you for also sending me in writing a little more detail, but on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we hold a discussion on your reply. I wasn't really just talking about office jobs, and there are other jobs, and we should probably also talk about what kind of people are employed. Zujf and I had a measure that also allowed people who had fulfilled the conditions for retirement to retire to give room to younger ones. Now, of course, you don't have that kind of tool. Many people who have long met the conditions for retirement remain in jobs, which is the question of whether they are effective enough to prevent young people from doing so. And we haven't said much about finances either, so I suggest we discuss this with the additional information you're going to provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be presented by Dr Ange Logar, Minister of Finance Andre Bertonclj. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam President. In principle, financial ministers are usually the most unpopular ministers. In fact, they have a key above the state treasury and usually rarely reach for it. At the time of their conclusion, the matter must be very well founded, that is, because they are the guardians of public finances. This is why, in principle, financiers are not presidents of governments, they are never popular, and in this respect they have a particular burden on them. In this respect, I ask the Minister of Finance a very simple question: How much of the open door to the public treasury was the result of your decision on the post of Minister of Finance within this term? Indeed, the number of public employment has increased, social contributions have increased, all restrictions from Zujf have been lifted, an agreement has been concluded with public servants. I'm talking about a few hundred million euros. I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance: How many of these interventions and how many structural expenditure have been increased on the basis of the Minister's decisions? I also ask this question because from all sides I hear information from the ministries that what was once impossible to get, today the Minister of Finance for all proposals gives the hook, we will find the money, we will arrange, the funds are provided. Indeed, the economy and others point to the cooling down of our main trading partners. At the time of the cooling down or the onset of the crisis, we know that what strikes most in the pocket is structural expenditure. The fiscal council, which is a body set up to monitor the cost of public finances while ensuring the guardian of the golden fiscal rule, has identified the following in the last decision concerning the functioning of the Ministry of Finance and Government. The government is imputing, and I quote, “cyclical expansion fiscal policy”, which, according to the Fiscal Council, is inadequate and represents a missed opportunity for a more lasting improvement in public finances. It also criticises the rise in the expenditure of the State sector. It notes that the policies indicated suggest further strengthening the growth of primary expenditure in 2019 and the possibility of a consequent deterioration of the structural balance, which means increased risk and increased caution in the management of fiscal policy. My question is: Are you part of the Minister of Finance's mandate?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u130	Your Honor, thank you for your question. I'll put down a few numbers. The union agreement was a priority for this government, but even without agreement in 2019, due to the release of measures together with higher payments due to the progress made in 2018, the mass of resources with public sector labour costs would increase. In 2019 and 2020, the PSA is estimated at EUR 308 million. In addition to relaxation, the agreement shall include further restrictions on the payment of work performance and a permanent delay of progress on 1 December. Taking into account the gradual implementation of the wage increase agreement and the suspension of measures and the impact of regular progress, the increase in labour costs under this heading is estimated at EUR 230 million and 5% in the public sector as a whole for 2019. This means that, for 2019, there is no difference in the mass of public sector labour costs compared to the unagreed situation, but that the measures are agreed and better targeted. The minimum wage raise is estimated at €7.8 million in additional public funds in 2019. Following the elimination of allowances and labour performance, €35 million in 2020. The obligations also stem from changes related to social and family policy, notably through the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act and the ZIPRS, which set the levels of the annual pension allowance and the extraordinary December reconciliation of pensions, with which it no longer interferes with the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in 2019. In the light of the minimum income, the Government merely extended the decision taken in the previous mandate by maintaining it at 292, 75 euros per month. In order to accurately assess the level of additional social security obligations, it is also important to move the number of beneficiaries and their incomes and assets, since they are dependent on their inclusion in an individual income class. The reconciliation of pensions in the light of fiscal consolidation has been limited in recent years to ZIPRS, and this time the public-financial situation and the awareness of the situation of pensioners have contributed to the decision on regular and extraordinary harmonisation in 2019, which means 2.9% more from this title and 18 million from the annual allowance than in 2018. To finance the tasks of the municipalities, the government has increased the average from €558 to €573.5, together with €31 million, which will enable the municipalities to cover additional wage and social obligations. The proposed amendment to the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 increases the number of employees allowed in the Joint Staff Plan of the State authorities by a maximum of 1% in relation to the state of 31 December 2017, thus ensuring that the number of employees is adequate in case of emergency needs, in particular for the resolution of the staffing problem in prisons and for the administration of enforcement. The provision represents a possible increase of 90 employees according to the situation at the end of December 2017, which means approximately €3.1 million per year. Ensuring the stability of public finances is one of the key tasks of the Government, which has designed and coordinated a system-wide solution for individual economic policy areas in line with the priorities set. In 2018, Slovenia recorded economic growth in the fifth consecutive year. At the same time, we are reducing public debt, which means we are less indebted and create more. I'm sure we want you here to make everyone feel better. The market has its legitimacy and I would like it to be pursued, as more favourable economic and public financial trends have created a fiscal space that can be used to boost domestic consumption. Greater consumption also means that we will be more successful in this part of domestic consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Logar, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you. The Minister has read to me what has already been published in the media and has not responded in short. Look, I'm operating on what the Fiscal Council said. Indeed, the Fiscal Council has been appointed to ensure that the Ministry of Finance does not open its vault. Finally, the Minister said that they are doing all this because we have such exceptional economic growth and because we have improved and so on. Do you know what the Fiscal World record is? That almost half of the consolidations contributed to economic growth, not to the ministry, not to the government service, but to the economy. This has produced favourable macroeconomic indicators. And they probably expect you to take care of any bad times that are coming. In the last term, the three parties that make up this coalition, SD, SMC and SAB, regularly discussed that the main source of the crisis was in the government 2004-2008, since the government did not, at that time, clean up or fill up the deficits. However, these same parties today are acting in exactly the opposite way. They empty their jaws in the time of the fat cows, because it is opportunistic, because it probably sounds good to the public and accepts our costs, which are essentially permanent, not unique. Permanent. And now you have listed only permanent structural costs for me, and all of this will also occur in the face of a possible economic crisis and may need to be taken back. So I'm going to ask you this: If, according to social, employment, the macroeconomic indicators in 2013 were to calculate the amount of expenditure that you approved, what would be the balance of the budget, or what would be the total expenditure in this case? If you can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u134	I will highlight the two key objectives we have pursued, and I will probably respond to most of this. After many years of budget deficits and public debt increases, it is not until 2017 that we show a minimum but indeed a minimum nominal surplus of 0.1%, in 2018 a nominal surplus with extraordinary revenues, so to speak, from the privatisation of extraordinary dividends of 0.8. This year, in 2019, measured by ESA standard, what we will send to Brussels is 0.55% surplus or that I will directly compare apples with apples, 0.4% and there are no extraordinary factors. In this part, the Government has therefore followed the key objective of the budgetary surplus. I repeat, the budget surplus. We could, of course, make this comparison with your 2013 as you said, we could make a comparison with other neighbouring countries. That would be very good to do. It would also be good, in fact, to make another world besides us that counts for it, and to find a strong budget deficit just as in the years of the conjuncture that we have. On the other hand, we have pursued another key objective, an active reduction in public debt. We are first in Europe, if not secondly, there we share with Ireland, the most successful country after the reduction of public debt, measured in relative proportion to economic growth or, in other words, gross domestic product. Yeah, well, that's so everywhere, because the value you've been talking about everywhere else comes mostly from the economy. That's clear, because this methodology is identical everywhere. And in this part we actively reduce not only in relative terms but also in absolute proportion. This year's public debt is expected to be 66.6%. By the end of the term of office, I think before that, 60% of the gross domestic product will be, if we measure it. But there are structural developments in this part of the world, so to speak, structural reforms. And I've already counted some of these. In our area 3: tax optimisation, which will trigger this, will transform Kad into a demographic fund and any other measure in the pension and health field will be necessary. But the trend is real. I would not agree with your assessment of the crisis, including the European Central Bank, the Governor Draghi himself warns against the use of the word crisis. See, technical recession or crisis, these are completely different concepts. Perhaps there will be a technical recession in some countries, a deficit in two consecutive quarters, and no one is talking about the crisis. And even in our work I do not see in 2019, if we are talking now, exactly no crisis in sight. So the use of the term itself is wrong [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Logar has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you. I, too, was not talking about the crisis only on condition, and I said, cooling down the economy. The Minister presented the structural expenditure, i.e. the one that for so much more each year means costs in the Treasury. However, he praised the surplus of the state budget. And I'm going to read again what the fiscal world says. The surplus of the state budget amounted to so much and so much, such movements are, in addition to favourable economic conditions to a large extent, attention, as a result of two single factors, the payment of European funds from the past financial perspective, a single event, and the retention of NLB's profits, which will not be so much in the next period. So we have structural expenditure, which is increasing, and our surplus or positive result is mainly based on two unique events. We are now putting ourselves in the new year, next year, when there will be no such one-off income, so I ask that we hold a debate on this issue here at the meeting of the National Assembly. However, I ask something else, because there was no time for the Minister, as I asked him to – he said it was also a good idea – that for the 2003 structure or the number of unemployed recipients of social assistance, family allowances and so on, to do with the amount of expenditure in 2019, what you have adopted, what will then be the amount of such expenditure, or what this amount of social security will be, so that we will have a black-on-white calculation, this structural allowance, which the Minister, with his actions, has essentially taken on taxpayers. And I'm not going to judge anything of value. I just want to make it very clear that we will know how Minister Bertonzel served in the time of the fat cows, so that this will facilitate any discussion in the years to come. However, once again, not my words, the words of the President of the Fiscal Council are that this government or your ministry is too short to provide structural measures to ensure a golden fiscal rule. So the independent body that was called to put a mirror on you, it put that mirror on you. And I just want to evaluate it in some way to see it with specific numbers. And I ask for this answer, what kind of policy are you taking to the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. A nice hello to you all! Dear Minister, in recent months we have been faced with the reorganisation of social work centres, which, at this first stage, has brought with it some complications and unloving backlogs in resolving applications for public funding rights. I agree with your assessment that the reorganisation was placed at the worst possible time, when every year it is the most important role at social work centres. Of course, someone else is responsible. Many delays have been the result of a variety of circumstances. In particular, your clear assurances and measures taken and implemented so far are important that the chaos of delays will no longer recur. The first step, which was taken and at the same time necessary to prevent the collapse of the system, was the adoption of the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds at the beginning of this mandate. In doing so, we must note that any systemic change that will have an important impact on the daily lives of a large number of our citizens and citizens must be clearly reconsidered and set, in particular, with real time frames for implementation. Unfortunately and obviously, this consideration was insufficient when CSDs were reorganised by those responsible. What is more optimistic, however, is the encouraging data on the elimination of backlogs at a time when you run this resort. In this regard, I ask you, Madam Minister, what measures have you taken at the Ministry to improve the situation in the area of reducing backlogs from day to day? Second of all: When can we expect the full elimination of delays in the resolution of applications for annual rights from public funds? And as a third: What measures will you take to ensure that the chaos of delays is no longer repeated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u140	Madam Members, thank you very much for the question. Indeed, the reorganisation of social work centres was placed at the worst possible time, which is on 1 October, where each year the most applications are for scholarships, child allowances, snack subsidies, lunches, reduced payment of kindergartens. During that period a new study year begins, the kindergarten year. I must say that by coming to the Ministry on 14 September, I could no longer prevent the reorganisation itself, because preparations for this reorganisation have taken place for a year or more, so it has practically been carried out. Immediately after 1 October, in the first week of October, the information system was also not working precisely because of the reorganisation, which, of course, further exacerbated the situation in the area of backlogs. At the Ministry, we monitored the developments at the centres daily and also offered maximum support and assistance. We have taken immediate measures, such as additional staffing, work over time and additional payments both in October and December. These measures helped to eliminate backlogs at most of the centres for social work around the end of November or early December, which means that these centres were operating without delay. The biggest problems, however, have arisen at the largest centre for social work, which is CSD in Ljubljana. We have solved this problem by issuing a decision on the transfer of local jurisdiction. As you know, administrative procedures with social work centres apply to places of jurisdiction relating to the party's residence. In this way, we have allocated these applications to centres all over Slovenia, which have helped to eliminate the backlogs. The current situation suggests that most of the backlogs have been eliminated. There's still some open stuff. However, these are more complex or are the reasons on the customer’s side when, of course, they have to complement their roles either with evidence of inflows from abroad or perhaps still regulate their status. We also count on these to be saved as soon as possible or by the end of January. How can we prevent such chaos from occurring? Certainly by continuing to inform social work centres. At this point, I would like to point out that we have not withdrawn the informational calculation from the Law on the regulation of rights from public funds, but rather the mass information calculation. In fact, when I was introduced to the Ministry, I was informed of the risk of a massive IT calculation, which would mean a total collapse of the system, we immediately amended the law and moved this time frame for a mass IT calculation to 2021 when, hopefully, the information system would also allow or will be ready for these calculations, while, of course, we will continue with the IT calculation itself or it was already implemented on December 1st, and with December 1st, no more than 25,000 applications had to be reinvested. This is about these annual rights, such as scholarships and child allowances, which means that when these rights are forfeited, these decisions will be automatically extended by official duty. As you know, with March 1st, I will also introduce a documentary system called Krapan. This is an application that will make it easier to deal with documentary material, so that certain administrative tasks will also fall away from the centres. In this way we will also be able to allow public servants to devote more time to professional work and work with service users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a chance to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u142	I would like to tell the Minister and everyone else, too, one case which is encouraging. When I informed my relative at the end of last year that the scholarship censorship had risen and that she should try to play the part, she did so on December 28th, she sent a role by mail, and I told her then, and you would probably wait a while for the decision, because now it's a little late, so it's also heard in the media. Well, then she informed me that the decision was issued on 9 January and served on 14 January. So I would like to commend the Center for Social Work of Lower Podravje.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Madam Secretary, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u144	I am very pleased with such encouraging information. We hope that there will be more in the future and that all applications will be resolved within the legal deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the mag. Dejan Kaloh, Minister of Justice Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u146	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister and all those who look at us on small screens! I'm personally glad that after four months you went out on the field. The situation was, of course, alarming, dramatic events were happening, according to my assessment. Of course, we're talking about the escape of two detainees from the Cyprus Department of Penitentiary and the recent incident at the Age when a convicted felon attacked a judicial officer with a knife. Madam Minister, let me ask you directly for explicit answers: Have these changes to the basic legislation on security plans in Slovenian prisons already taken place? When will you get the money at the final stage? You have even talked about a million euros for the urgent modernisation of outdated video surveillance in Slovenian prisons. What will you do about the security situation itself and examine the improvement of security measures in Slovenian prisons? For they are threatened not only by judicial officers, but also by other prisoners, of course, if prisoners may come to arms, improvised or even real, as was this kitchen knife. I would also like to ask you about the professional competence of judicial officers: Do you think this program that we have so far, training candidates for law enforcement officers is entirely appropriate? In fact, it is governed by the Regulation on the Enforcement of Orders and Powers of Judicial Officers, which you yourself issued last December, in particular in the psychophysical examination of judicial officers. In fact, I have observed, in Article 113 of this Regulation only provides that the examination of professional psychophysical competence shall be carried out only if the candidates have not carried out such training. Now, however, it seems important that such psychophysical training should be carried out on a regular basis, since in the latter case, even this supervisor spoke of allowing the possibility of even sleeping in the workplace. Now some information also suggests that some police officers could also consume alcohol during working hours and, ultimately, the psychological fragility of certain judicial police officers could be checked at any time, since I possess information that in closed parts of prisons besides modems, mobile phones and judicial officers do not hope to be taken away from any more notorious criminals. All of this suggests that such psychophysical checks would still be more appropriate. Thank you once for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, perhaps you'd like to paint a little more. As soon as I arrived at the Ministry, I was aware at the time of the handover that the previous leadership had prepared human resources standards and standards for the work of professional workers and judicial officers in the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. In a very short period of time, we coordinated this with representatives of both unions, updated it and also accepted it, published it. Other rules were then issued on this basis. All institutions need to adjust their areas at a certain time. And in view of the situation, we have certainly taken an immediate approach to it, and they are also giving priority to it. What I think is further progress is that they will also listen to the profession to a greater extent, it is also said to the judicial police themselves when they propose certain improvements according to the situation they themselves see in a particular institution, it is said in a particular prison. Another large area seems to me to be the government, including a public administration colleague, including the Minister of Finance, and last but not least the Prime Minister of the Government, that we have received additional quotas. I believe that the Members, Members of Parliament, will confirm the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia by assigning us an additional one, at least 30, for judicial officers and, of course, for the Administration of Enforcement, on the basis of last year's quotas. In view of this, there are currently 15 employment procedures at URSIKS for 30 civil servants, judicial officers and other professional colleagues who are also needed to carry out work in prisons and also to pass them on so that we can somehow round it up and go into better shape. For with all that was presented in public at that time, it was found that the darkness of the events did not bottify the equipment itself, but, above all, the human factor that the judicial police, due to lack of work, were very burdensome and that there were also such mistakes that should not actually happen. As far as Kopra is concerned, you know that we have a new leadership and I gave them some time to overwind all internal procedures and then visit them in the second half of February to present to us everything they have done at that time. The report on both what happened in Cyprus and in all other institutions, what the situation is, has already been discussed in the Government. I also tasked the Director-General to prepare, together with all the co-workers, some investment action plan, and the basic evaluation only for informatics, it is said, for surveillance cameras and some other equipment is necessary to invest in this year, at an amount of 800 000, plus an additional 200 000 each year for maintenance and updating. I now expect that, as soon as possible, they will draw up an action plan for each individual prison, whose priorities are investment priorities, so that we can go through this together. I believe that in the framework of our budget, where we have already had resources for additional employment, we will also find funds for this, because, as in the previous year, as in the years before me, the Ministry of Justice at the end of the year also needs other judicial stakeholders or builders. With regard to the security situation itself, which has already been checked after all prisons, it is assessed to be appropriate. Of course, we are aware that unpleasant events can unfortunately always occur because there are convicts, detainees. Even with regard to the number of prisons filled, situations are very critical. This situation will not be improved until we have new prisons in Slovenia, including the state of existing facilities, but they estimate that some major changes are not necessary, but they will prepare these changes in a very short time, in addition to what they have already proposed. As far as vocational training is concerned, there has already been an initiative here to somehow reduce this training. However, here the profession and representatives of the union are of the uniform opinion that this training must be very good, that judicial officers must be adequately prepared and trained to carry out their tasks. So we're not planning any changes here for a very short time. However, given what the judiciary will say when proposing to improve the security situation, I believe that, in cooperation with the representatives of the two unions, we will also improve only the upgrading of training, especially in that it is not only initial training, but that it is then over the years, which is now due to the staffing problem, due to overcrowding, that it has somehow been abandoned, every year and every month.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The Member of Parliament shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answers. However, I would like to remind you in the security situation that even in the enforcement rules of prison, everything is not ideal. Mr Support, which you have already mentioned, has wanted to take part in the guilt against the Ombudsman, in terms of the rules governing the review of prisoners after returning from the exits. As I have already mentioned, modems, mobile phones and improvised weapons, even perhaps material for the production of any escape tools, all of this is now somehow possible even so, with a hole in a pure sub-legal regulation, possible transfer to prison, because now selective control is not systematic, it is a genuine automatic review. [[…]] However, I believe that you could act here, and at least in the closed parts of prisons, in order to actually, of course, take into account human rights, which, in particular, in women's sex, may be on some slippery ground, as has been said by the prisoners from Iga, but have examined these prisoners who are returning from the exit to the closed parts of the prisons. When you mentioned this acquisition of yours, in fact, it's kind of a mantra now for four months about an increase in judicial officers. In 2017, your predecessor conducted 41 procedures, as far as I have information, I think about 30 law enforcement officers were then employed in 2017. Now you are talking about an approved quota of 30 judicial police officers, but according to the latest information of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, this number is 140 judicial officers. After that, what is your plan for this to be fulfilled during your term of office? Thanks for the update.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot give a complete answer, but we will discuss this in more detail either way at the meeting of the Justice Committee next week, where we can really take enough time. We've also prepared extensive material for you, and it's going to be the right place. Surely, there is something else to be said about this verification directive when prisoners return to prison, because it is a matter of different understandings, but certainly everyone who has suspicion, even in the light of the knowledge of individual convicts, can make a review, but I believe it, and so I ordered that we review all the individual documents, all the work instructions, all of us go over again, because there was no escape for so long, there was no such situation. Compared to abroad, let us take a case of how things should be arranged. And then maybe it's kind of lulling into this sleep and we're a little bit too careful, but here we need a direct check and we're starting now and we're going to continue in the future. As you yourself said with regard to quotas, standards and norms have been shown, and so together we have written down how much we need. As you yourself have already said last year, there have been procedures and at the moment, as I myself have said, that there are ongoing employment procedures for both judicial officers and other professional colleagues, an additional 30 and an additional 30. Then we also expect that, of course, the Government, too, when you talk about how many employees in the state administration are increasing, will be taken with understanding and our efforts to increase the number somehow. At least in times of crisis, neither did those who went to peace, and that is why there is a situation like that today. So the proposal is, the plan is to somehow increase and, of course, replace each year. In this context, also our discussions, because it is not only a problem to get quotas that we will get, I believe, but then the problem is to find people who want to work as judicial officers, so that they also have to be qualified for this work. Here you probably also know that you can solve the problem of soldiers after 45 years, not of course automatic employment, but those who would go through all the tests and who would, of course, also want to learn and work in this system. So here I think that all those who are somehow connected systems need to talk about uniformed occupations, connect and also find ways to pass individual personnel, even then in the light of not only security in prisons, but perhaps even broader important state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Aleksander Reberšek, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags, will put the following. Kseniya Klampfer and Minister of Health, Mr Sam Fakin. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary! They must be aware of the many problems children’s parents face with special needs. There's too little talk in public about this. These parents tend to live in difficult situations and bear a heavy burden. In many cases it is too difficult to carry it without consequences for longer periods. Parents of children with special needs are not a very loudly excluded group of residents, so they have neither the time nor the energy nor the knowledge. They do most of the noble work, caring for the weak, for their children who need help. To help them and to ease their burden, we, Members of Parliament and above all you, ministers with all co-workers, are here with all the services. After what my parents told me about the special needs of children who have turned to our parliamentary group in despair, there are many problems. Too few physical therapeutic treatments, too little compensation for lost income, method of allocation and too little allowance for care, too few diapers belonging to a child with special needs per day, aids and a long waiting period for their production, too few rehabilitation centres following the example of the Soč URI, hospital care arrangements or the escort of children to fathers, too long-term consideration of applications at the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. We can all see that the system is outdated, cruel and completely inappropriate for modern standards. Dear Minister, I ask you: When and how will these and other matters be handled in the field of parents with special needs? How and until when will the system be updated to meet the needs of children with special needs and to support their parents in caring for them, not even the additional burden of bureaucracy, waiting and fighting to achieve the rights they belong to them? I ask for specific measures, which are also specified in time. Just today, I received an electronic message that shocked me. In fact, the majority of children's situation with special needs is lower than the child's care allowance and thus the possibility of compensation for lost income. Who accepted it on what grounds? This is a kind of change that has been accepted from a chair and has no real insight into the lives of such families. Please, if you'll provide me with an explanation. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Will he get the word or get it first, Minister or Minister? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. I will answer in the work relating to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Initially, I should explain that parents of children who need special care and protection under the Parental Protection Act and the family recipients have the right to an allowance for the care of a child recognised on the basis of the opinion of the Medical Commission. Justice lasts from the age of 18 and to the age of 26 if the child is in school. The amount of the child care allowance shall be EUR 100, except for children with severe mental impairment or severely affected children or children with certain diseases listed in the list of serious diseases shall be EUR 200. Parents are also entitled to a partial payment for lost income if they leave the labour market to care for and protect their child. One of the parents in this case receives a salary of EUR 734.15 per month for up to the age of 18 years of the child. Parents in need of special care and protection shall also be entitled to certain other rights, such as the extension of parental leave or parental allowance, the right to shorter working hours, the right to assistance in the purchase of vineyards and certain other rights under other rules. Some improvements have already been made in this area in the past year. A spouse or extramarital partner who actually nurtures and protects the child of his spouse or extramarital partner, and not just one of the parents, is entitled to the partial loss of income payment. Parents are no longer entitled to a partial payment for lost income if the child is hospitalised for longer than 30 days for treatment in an institution where he or she has a full day free of charge. Also, one parent is entitled to a partial loss of income payment at a proportionate level if, for example, the child is at home, for example, because of schooling in an institution where he has full-time free care, and spends at least 90 days at home, for example during weekends, holidays, during illness. We are aware that the amounts could be higher, so we are already preparing a bill to increase the amount of the partial payment for lost income to the amount of the minimum wage, which was also one of the envisaged measures of the Resolution on Family Policy for 2018-2028 for all families a friendly society. In July 2019, transfers will be aligned over a long period of time with rising prices of living needs, i.e. the care allowance as part of payment for lost income.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you. These activities that have taken place have been followed up live as Director of the Institute of Health Insurance. And it happens in one way or another every year. Let me say that the Institute of Health Insurance, in accordance with government measures, has already established so-called primary-level clinics in recent years and has distributed them every year to a network recognised by the profession as necessary and sustainable. However, at the initiative of Ambassador 1. 1. 2019 further implements the Comprehensive Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs Act. In order to identify the purely real needs, if I make it very simple, there are European funds available for the project in the three outpatients that will answer all the questions you have. Of course, I will never be able to meet the real needs of everyone or the actual wishes of every caregiver of these parents, because for some needs it is necessary to regulate systematically. I know that in changing the right to more diapers from compulsory health insurance, this is one of the things you mentioned, and we will give them. As for physical therapy, however, expectations differ greatly from those of individual parents. Some would like to do so every day for 2-3 hours, while others would not agree, using a regime that is usually also applicable to all other services. Expectations are high, but the profession has a point of view. And the Department of Health Insurance pays what the profession recommends is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Member of Parliament shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u160	The State has taken care of healthy individuals receiving financial social assistance and has forgotten about those with special needs. So they had to know each other and their families, just as they did. The 18-year-old brand lives with the worst form of cerebral paralysis and does not receive any therapy from the country because it is old and gets 3 diapers, even though it consumes 7 each day. Where is the security of human dignity, I wonder. Is that really the maximum we can do? Tim has a rare genetic disease, characterized by a change in the development of the skull bone and the face and soiling of the fingers on his hands and legs. The team, despite its severe illness, rides around Ljubljana and other places with a modified bicycle and collects newspaper paper. This pile of paper weighs 1 kilo. He gets 9.5 cents for this pile of paper. If he wants to pay 1 hour of therapy, he must collect more than 500 kilograms of this paper. 5-year-old Luke has cerebral palsy and gets 1 treatment a week from this country. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any idea how many of these stoppers Luke's family has to gather to fill up a van full of stoppers that he can get out of 260 euros, which means five hours of therapy? We collect stoppers, old paper, we send text messages, we help the needy instead of doing this to the state. Dear Ministers, provide more physiotherapists throughout the country who will offer treatments to users free of charge. If he's found money for additional secretary of state, I'm sure he'll be found for it. I expect you to improve supply, standard of supply. We are responsible for taking care of our fellow man and providing him with a decent life. All words are superfluous if there's no action. And I expect your actions. I will not forget these loving people, nor will I make sure that you don't, and in six months, I will ask you again what we've done in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Would anyone like a word from the ministers? No, no, no. Mr. Ambassador, do you have a procedural proposal? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u162	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like this subject to be discussed at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Ambassador Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u164	The media has published news on corruption risks at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for intellectual property due to the lack of criteria on the procedure for granting a private reproduction permit. The KPK has reviewed the functioning of this office and has been in the process of issuing collective management licences for private and other self-replication for a period of 10 years. Since 2009, the UIL has not granted any collective organisations the administration of this right. The current legislation for reproduction of works of art, so called copying and copying, provides for mandatory collective management through collective organisations such as SAZAS, IPF, AIPA, ZAMP and SAZOR. In this case, the authors, due to the damage resulting from this, shall be granted a special flat-rate refund to be paid by producers or importers of products which allow mass copying and re-recording of works such as CDs, DVDs and USB keys. Instead of collecting and distributing the refund fairly, the individual administrative procedures for issuing licences shall be carried out for several years, causing injury to those to whom the law is intended. As the KPK warns, this situation is due to the absence of criteria for assessing the application for authorisation, which poses a significant corruption risk. Even the Office itself sees obstacles and predicts a number of administrative disputes against its own decisions. There were only eight such lawsuits during this period. The Court has already ruled in five cases and in all cases confirmed the decision of the UIL. Nevertheless, the right to compensation for private reproduction is still not managed by anyone, so the rightholders, due to the absence of a permit, are suffering property damage estimated at around EUR million per year. That's why, given the new facts, I'm interested in: When you answered my question in 2016, what did you mean when you said that the matter would be settled in the shortest possible time? Have you introduced surveillance at the RS Intellectual Property Office? Does the UIL ever intend to grant anyone permission, and what will you do about it? When will MGRT lay down the criteria for assessing the application for collective management of the right to reproductive compensation and thus prevent corruption risks? Who is responsible for the damage that is estimated at a million euros a year? Who will pay compensation for all those years ago when the decision-making process failed to give effect to the right or the remuneration for reproduction was not paid? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u166	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. The Anti-Corruption Commission conducted a procedure concerning alleged irregularities in granting collective management licences for compensation for private and other own reproductions to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for intellectual property. The Commission has identified certain corruption risks and has adopted several recommendations to address them. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology deals with the Commission's recommendations to prevent corruption with all due diligence and seriousness, since our commitment is the transparent and efficient functioning of the Ministry and all bodies within the Ministry. I would like to point out that the Commission has detected corruption risks in order to prevent corruption, which is the possibility of corruption, but has not found any corruption in the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property. We have called on the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property to clarify the Commission's reports on the prevention of corruption and the issue of a permit for private reproduction. Since we have only received extensive explanations from the Office and have to examine them at the Ministry and our findings to the Commission, at this point I can only explain the matter after the preventive measures carried out so far at the Ministry, namely: the permit for private reproduction has not been granted because so far no application for which the Office has decided has met the legal conditions for issuing a permit. If the conditions for issuing the licence laid down by the law are not met, the Office may refuse the application. The Office shall be bound by law and its decision shall be examined by the Administrative Court in an administrative dispute. The Courts have so far confirmed all decisions of the Office concerning the authorisation of collective management of the right to compensation for private reproduction. The Office explained that it has been working for years to collect and share compensation for private reproduction among eligible rightholders. The refund belongs to all authors, operators, producers of phonograms, film producers together, and therefore the authorisation would benefit all rightholders. This is an example of the so-called single common position when the debtors of the payment of the remuneration by one post settle their obligations to all rightholders. Although authors and other beneficiaries have the right to this compensation since the implementation of the Copyright and Related Rights Act from 1995 onwards, according to the Office's explanations, they have not yet organised themselves to meet the legal conditions for obtaining a permit. From 31. 12. No one exercised the collective right to compensation for private reproduction and therefore rightholders are in a significantly poorer position to exercise this right, as the individual administration of this right is in practice hampered. It is therefore necessary to issue a new authorisation as soon as possible and to ensure that right holders are granted adequate compensation. The office's since 31st. 12. 2009 has repeatedly called on collective organisations to properly regulate mutual relations in order to ensure permanent or at least temporary authorisation until such authorisation can still be granted. At the meetings, the Office kept explaining the conditions to be met in order to obtain this authorisation and the case law. As regards the conditions for granting a collective management licence for private reproduction compensation, a wide-ranging case law has already been developed. The Office also published a presentation of the case law on its website, so that all rightholders can become aware of it. However, I must point out that the Administrative Court has prohibited the Office from deciding on applications for collective management licence for remuneration for private reproduction submitted after 20 years. 3. 2017, until the jurisdiction of the decision of the court in a dispute pending before that court. The Office will continue its efforts to ensure that rightholders duly submit or supplement an application that will allow the Office to re-explain the provisions of the Copyright and Related Rights Act and the Collective Governance Act on copyright and related rights. The Ministry will examine carefully which solutions could contribute to the early authorisation of collective management of the right to compensation for private reproduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u168	Dear Minister! Your last sentence: “The Ministry will carefully study « See, on January 25, 2016 we were when you said to me: “I believe that in the new staff structure of the management of the Intellectual Property Office this issue will be resolved as quickly as possible.” Today when we're 28. 1. answer my question: “The Ministry will study carefully ” Three years have passed since millions of euros at annual level are not received by those who should receive it and when the state does not collect tax from it. [[…]] I find this, I'm sorry, totally unacceptable and unheard of. Plus, in the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2018-2022, coalition parties agreed on a measure to reshape the office and to reform the intellectual property law with a view to strengthening intellectual property protection. Here I have the KPK report, which I refer to in my parliamentary question, and the Senate of the Commission adopted at its 37th meeting on 15 November 2018 that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as the holder of the ZKUASP, must draw up precise criteria for assessing the completeness of applications. In short, I'm going to be running out of time, but we've been making a big deal about it three years ago, so that the conditions are so complicated that none of the organisations that are supposed to collect these benefits are enough to meet these criteria. And we agreed three years ago that you would examine these criteria and simplify them so that those beneficiaries could get their own money that belongs to them. Please explain to me why after three years you are repeating the same sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u170	Dear Member! What you've just said is unilaterally misleading the public, in my deep belief. Three years ago, we passed a law, and we completed it, with a lot more precise implementation of all of the things you were talking about. I don't know the number of millions of euros. I'll be able to learn about it. The new human resources structure at the UIL has much more transparently regulated the transport of money between authors and between users, and I believe that it has put a great deal of effort into equipping agencies or these organisations to issue an appropriate decision. At this point, there are two roles in the hearing that we cannot deal with for two years until the final decision of the court is reached, and I would therefore ask you to tell the other part as well. In short, from 2017 on, we cannot take any decisions at the Office of Intellectual Property until the decision of the Court in the remaining cases mentioned. I insist that the new 2016 law makes great progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The Member State shall have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u172	I suggest that at the next meeting, we discuss how it is possible that, despite the enormous effort that has been put forward, those who belong to a million euros a year do not receive this money. In order to effectively implement the law governing collective management of copyright and related rights, the KPC has instructed you to ensure that the criteria for assessing the fullness of the application are available to all rightholders. I guess that's not the case. The criteria are too complicated, and so the KPK appeal, because we know that it is already important here for a million euros a year how they split up. And where there is smoke, there is fire, so I ask that this matter be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now we continue with the questions of the Member States. Mr Vojko Starović, namely, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags, will build it. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Hello, Minister! Political, economic and social changes in Slovenia also dictate changes in the treatment of old-age pensions. Although the Institute of Old Age Pensions still sees it as something that is designed to enable the survival of older ones who can no longer do their work, it is not true. Indeed, with the amendment of the Constitution in 2004, the right to a pension has become a special constitutional protection right. The aim of the supplement is in particular to highlight its economic content in pensions. It's about reciprocity and less about solidarity. This has been gradually followed by legislation and case law and the right to a pension has become an increasingly economic category. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has made clear in its judgments that the pension is a reflection of the contributions made by citizens from their incomes. In short, it is a right granted to an individual on the basis of a previous work if we use this term, which is also used by the Constitutional Court. The older ones are in fact those who have created a material base for the development of a modern Slovenian state and therefore are certainly entitled to a decent economic and social position in society. In recent years, however, we face a different picture. Many retirees, even though they have completed a full retirement period, are unable to afford even basic necessities as a result of lowering the dose. Among them are many vital and capable people who want and are willing to work and contribute to the social product as well as to their own standard, and we prevent them. Why? This is unacceptable to people who have created the current material foundations of Slovenia. It's economic and social injustice. The main problems are, therefore, too low pensions and restrictions on the work of pensioners. The present objection that due to the demographic challenge of population ageing, we cannot afford normal pensions, since almost a third of the population now represents pensioners is not true. It is true that with the budget's rebalancing we have fixed pensions, but this is not the right one. That's why I'm asking: When will the Ministry prepare a comprehensive proposal for the necessary changes to upgrade the pension system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary has the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. In opening, I would like to point out that I am aware of the problems of the poor social situation of certain recipients of pension and disability benefits. One of our key objectives in this mandate is the adoption of measures and necessary legislative changes to ensure greater social security for all who need it. Let me point out that in 2019 the social situation of pensioners will be improved by regular harmonisations, which is 2.8% in February, in line with the system law, and extremely harmonised, which is expected to be 1.5% in December, in view of the economic growth found. With regard to the annual allowance, I explain that this year it will be paid to individuals compared to the previous year in higher amounts and that all pensioners will be entitled to it. The amount of funds allocated for the payment of the annual pensioner allowance shall be the same after many years before the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. The Government considers that the current regulation of the situation of the amount of the annual allowance is more appropriate than the fixed determination of the amount in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, i.e. its payment and the amount of the allowance, has always been linked to the financial capacity of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and the state budget. Nevertheless, I will make every effort in the future to ensure that the amount of the annual allowance follows to the maximum extent possible the objectives set out in the coalition agreement. At the Ministry, however, we are currently in the final stage of preparing the starting points that will serve to draft amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The proposal for changes will focus primarily on raising the dose percentage for both men and women, and on equalizing the level for both sexes. The basis is the commitment under the coalition agreement to gradually determine the 40-year rate of retirement of at least 63% and, at the same time, a higher percentage of child care will be recognised. In addition, let me stress that changes in dosing procedures will also mean higher social security for beneficiaries of disability, widow's and family pensions and disability benefits, all mentioned in order to provide more adequate income for the safe age. The starting points that we are preparing at the Ministry also include solutions for upgrading the so-called dual pensioner status, with which pensioners should be allowed to receive pensions under the conditions of payment of all social security contributions after meeting certain conditions such as age and pension. These changes will already be presented to coalition Members in the coming weeks and then forwarded to the social partners in the Economic and Social Council. The expected deadline for the transmission of the regulation governing the content listed in the National Assembly shall be the first half of 2019, the deadline set for adoption by the Government shall be 9 May 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like a supplement for an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u178	I do. With regard to fiscal sustainability, when we are sometimes afraid of population ageing and we will not last, since there is already a third in retirement, I would like to point out that science has also contributed. At the Faculty of Economics, at a resounding business conference at the end of the year, they presented a projection by 1959, where they set up solutions for how to make pension payments sustainable within 11% of the gross social product we now have. One measure that is very important is that older people remain in the labour market in order to enable them to do so without being thrown out. In Sweden, seven years of age remain longer, although people in Sweden have no longer life expectancy. So stay chili, healthy and involved, and it's allowed. And even two years earlier, they get involved in the work, as our young people do. In this direction we need to make some moves, so the profession recommends us, and also gradually increasing productivity on the average of Europe solves problems, this projection shows. So the solutions are here, a little bit more refined, and I think we can go a little bit bolder and give the pensioners the economic content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u179	Madam Minister, would you like a word to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u180	Maybe just a few words. Yes, we are aware of the demographic changes of our society, but at the same time we have a problem with early retirement. In fact, if we look at work activity in the years 60 to 64, we can find that we are completely on the tail of the European scale, and only the Greeks have lower employment. So, yes, probably the easiest part is to raise the retirement age in a legislative way, but at the same time we need to know that we will not solve these structural problems that we have. Above all, we must strive to adopt measures to increase employment in a way that does not mean that people will withdraw so quickly from the labour market, especially here I am also thinking of the country, how to encourage measures to recruit older people, how to empower them, and how to increase their employment opportunities, and especially with some right measures, to encourage business directors to deal with older people in the context of age management. Above all, we would like to encourage lifelong learning and life-long work so that in the future, as jobs and jobs change, older people can compete in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The next Member, Mr Marijan Pojbič, will also ask the Minister of Mag a question. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! The disability area is a very complex issue that needs to be addressed with all due care. Especially since these are vulnerable groups of people who often cannot help themselves. They're receiving a disability that can't be lived with. So this is a group of people who urgently need to be helped by the state. From day to day I receive the records of these people who are very disappointed by the ignorance of responsible policies towards them. I am sure that it is imperative that this group of people listen and help them with solutions that will provide them with decent conditions for survival. I am particularly aware that people with disabilities in particular are in a very difficult situation, as the remuneration is essential below the poverty threshold, but at the same time in practice it is not possible to get a job or it is very difficult. Now the majority of people with a third category receive substantially less than €300 per month. In practice, this means that they only have to survive with this money, because they cannot obtain and cannot apply for a protective allowance other than disabled persons. Social policy is not currently oriented in such a way as to provide employers with effective additional incentives for employment of disabled persons with partial disabilities. At a time when we have economic growth and when the government shares budgetary money across the board without good consideration, it is logical that people living deep below the poverty line expect an increase in their compensation, which is now at the mercy level, and expect an increase in this level to at least the level of social assistance. Madam Minister, I ask you: What will you do to correct the social picture and situation in this area, what solutions do you propose and when?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. Initially, I would like to explain that the disability benefits are part of the pension scheme and the same as pensions depend on previous insurance, pension periods and the basis on which the contributions were paid. It also depends on the age at which the disability occurred and on the legal status of the disabled worker, whether he lost his employment on his own terms or on the basis of regular dismissal by the employer or registered at the employment institution. In view of the above, the levels of compensation as well as the old disability pensions can vary greatly. In certain cases, too low. Social security is provided in the context of social security benefits with financial assistance and its specific form, exceptional financial social assistance, and social security allowances for persons unable to provide material security for themselves because of circumstances beyond their control. I would like to stress that I am aware of both the problems of disability insurance and the social situation of beneficiaries of low disability benefits. I will also try to take appropriate measures in this area to ensure a higher level of social security, as also provided for in the coalition agreement. One of our key objectives in this mandate is the adoption of measures and necessary legislative changes to ensure greater social security for all who need it, including beneficiaries of disability benefits, whose amounts are often low. Let me point out that in 2019 the social situation of beneficiaries of disability benefits will be improved by regular harmonisations, 2.8% in February, in accordance with the system law, and by an exceptional harmonisation in December of 1.5%, in view of the economic growth found. At the Ministry, we are in the stage of preparing the starting points that will serve to prepare a proposal for amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The changes will also include raising the dose percentage for both men and women, as well as higher social security for beneficiaries of disability, widow's, family pensions and disability benefits. The increase in the dose percentage will also have a positive impact on the dose of disability benefits. These changes will be presented to coalition Members in the coming weeks and then forwarded to the social partners in the Economic and Social Council. The deadline for transmission of this regulation to the National Assembly shall be the first half of 2019. The deadline for adoption by the Government is 9 May 2019. This will contribute, I hope, to a better balance between the level of pension benefits on the one hand and the revised levels of social transfers on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Minister, I can say that I am tired of these words. People are expecting concrete measures. To talk about the date, then, then, then, and then we will do it — I don’t think this way in this society of these people living on the threshold of poverty can be convinced anymore. I don't know how much longer we're going to listen, I don't know which government has to come, over and over again: we're going to do this, we're going to do this, we're going to detect this thing, we know this problem, and so on and so on and so forth. It seems to me that this is not the right way to address these acute issues, these acute problems and the cases that I have been talking about today. If one disabled person has a third category of invalidity 278 and cannot receive any other transfer, there is an alarming enough question to be answered immediately, immediately and for such a group of people to find immediate solutions. What you've said is that it's going to happen, that pensions will rise, and so on, that's practically nothing for a man with 278 invalidity pensions. How much will that increase him? For two euros, three euros? What does that mean? What does that mean for him? Does this mean that the state has taken sufficient care of these people who are not to blame for coming into a situation where they live below the poverty line with such money? If we were able to raise social assistance — and you know that we raised it — these people need to be heard and at least that pension raised to the level of social assistance. At least we should have done it a long time ago. When we did that, we should do it in a related way, not that it might happen in a year, or a year, or a half, or I don't know when. Madam Minister, please specifically – I am not satisfied with what you have said and people cannot be satisfied with it either. We expect immediate solutions in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u188	Here I would just add, as regards the third category disabled, mentioned by you, who receive a cash amount of EUR 278 and who themselves cannot provide material security, they are also entitled to financial social assistance, not of course to a security allowance, because they are not permanently unable to work. Unless they are considered to be permanently unemployed, this is the case where the decision is issued by the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia under the rules on the rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities or by another relevant authority under the rules governing the status of persons with disabilities. All these others, of course, are entitled to financial social assistance if they cannot provide material security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u190	I propose that this issue be discussed because I am not satisfied with the answer, because I am convinced that those affected by this problem cannot be satisfied with this answer, I am talking about the third category disabled who receive EUR 278 of disability pension. Madam Minister, I will only read to you one text that we have received from the National Assembly: "I know that Members of the SDS with Mr Jozet Tank have already addressed the great social problem of third-class disabled workers and others in the past. This is a calculated compensation from the Zpiz 60 % of the calculated disability pension and receives around EUR 276. Among them, some are permanently unemployed and are the only source of survival. According to some data, there are about 16,000 of these in the country. In order to obtain an entire calculated disability pension, it would depend on around EUR 380. Unfortunately, the authorities do not want to hear about this, while they generously spend money on foreign invasive migrants and place them in front of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have paid for 30 years or more in a tax box. This is extremely unfair and discriminatory towards this part of the population." Madam Minister, I think that this person who wrote this is a lot, says that, I will say, a sad, tragic truth. Tragic truth. So there's no money for them, for illegal migrants coming to our country, and every 14 days I see a call for how many, half a million, 600 thousand, 700 thousand euros of purchase, what I know, from A to Z, for a comfortable life in our country. So it's money for these people, and people who have worked 20, 30, 45 years later are not guilty of coming into such a situation, so that the disabled are third-class workers receive EUR 276. You also said that some people can get after what I heard, and I know how it goes through our bureaucratic obstacles, how one can even get this social assistance – there are many problems here before these disabled people can get to it. [[…]] And you mentioned one single social assistance. What does this mean for someone who receives €276 a year? Practically nothing. Try to put everyone who sits in this House in the skin of this man. Besides the fact that this man is still a working invalid. Let us try to stand up and let us understand that such a situation is unacceptable. A country like the Republic of Slovenia, where we share money, as I said before, the average where we can give in order not to say anything about secretary of state, I don't know who we are, and I don't know what non-governmental organizations such as that, and for those people who have worked hard for 30, 35 years, we guarantee 276 euros. This is a disgrace to this country and to the government and to the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Dušan Šiško will present the question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u192	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister! In Posavij, where I come from, during World War II, the population was severely affected by the relocation of entire families to German Reich labour camps, and also to Serbia and Croatia. A large part of the total of over 60 people was from Posavje, where the invaders evicted the whole village. Many remained abroad forever, but those who suffered and returned sick found empty homes and looted homes. This damage was never reimbursed to them, since neither the former nor the Slovenian State has tried to recover this damage from Germany, but it has managed the assets left by Austria instead of paying for war damage. Despite the many initiatives that have been put in particular by the Society of Evictions of Slovenia since 1995 1941-1945 in the National Assembly and the governments so far, none has done anything. It was not until last year that the last months of the previous government came to an accelerated consideration of the proposal for a law on the recovery of symbolic war damage, which was adopted at first reading on 27 March 2018, and then the second hearing was not due to opposition from the then coalition parties, who are now in the government, and two opposition parties. I want to know: How do you feel about this problem, Your Honor? Will you advocate that this issue be resolved as soon as possible and that exiles as victims of fascism and Nazism receive at least a symbolic reparation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. Initially, I explain that the issue of the recovery of war damage and the payment of war compensation does not fall within the scope of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. The issue of payment of war compensation does not fall within the scope of the special social protection of victims of war violence in accordance with Article 50, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which provides victims of war with special protection under the law. The specificisation of citation of the constitutional provision is the adoption of the Law on Victims of War Violence, which, unlike other citizens, guarantees certain specific social rights or rights of compensation of a legal nature, such as life's monthly pensions and the right to health care. However, the provision of special social protection to victims of war violence is not based on the settlement of the debt to victims of war violence or on something that the victims of war violence against the State a priori would be justified, but on solidarity as one of the foundations of the principles of the social state. Under the Act on Compensation for Victims of War and Post-war Violence, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, victims of war violence have been awarded compensation for the suffering of physical and mental suffering in exile, camps, refugees and other war situations under law. The open questions concerning the payment of war and the material compensation have a completely different basis for compensation and are closely linked to the issues of the legal succession of the Republic of Slovenia to the concluded inter-State agreements and inter-State agreements between the former common country and the State successors of the former occupying countries, as well as to the current issues of bilateral agreements with those countries. In accordance with the 2003 Decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Title estimates that, in order to establish views on the issue under consideration, the Medresor Commission is competent to deal with the issues of war damage, which is expected to operate within the Ministry of Justice. However, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is certainly prepared to cooperate in resolving the issue of compensation for symbolic compensation for material damage caused during World War II with the Ministry of Justice, which in 2008 already drafted a draft law on compensation for property damage from World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, I am not most pleased with your answer. As you probably know, I have already sent this question – and I am not here for more than six months – to the Minister of the Interior and he has answered something similar to yours. I also specifically wrote to you in the question that on 27 March 2018 it had already been adopted and it was the first debate, but then because of the collapse of the current government was not discussed further. That is why I expected a little more concrete things, but after Article 246 I propose that this debate be held in the National Assembly, because there are colleagues Han, Zorčič, Lisec, who are also from our area where the most displaced families have been. We also have a museum in Brestnica, on the castle. So I would ask for a debate to be held in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much. You have now skipped one step, but your proposal will still be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We continue to ask the question again to the Minister for the Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Kseniya Klampfer, and he'll be set up by Franz Jursha. Member, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u198	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister, too! The distinguished minister, the increase in the salaries of employees in the public sector, resulting from an increase in the minimum wage, a former evaluation of individual jobs and an increase in certain allowances, has logically led to an increase in the cost of care in homes for older citizens. Such a result was expected, announced and pointed out by the competent authorities, the right representatives of the institutions, employees and others. Many of them asked themselves what salary raises will mean for older citizens. The government, however, is expected to ensure that it provides money to cover salary increases. So the government should make sure, by its promises, that the victims would not feel this lift on their shoulders, but that obviously did not happen. Some homes have already raised prices by between 2% and 3% and others are likely to follow. In addition, price increases are expected to be harmonised on a regular basis in March. I can also assume that these several homes will be joined by other homes in Slovenia. I believe that the elderly themselves, who spend the fall of their lives in pension homes, will not be able to provide certain funds. This will also, of course, require the assistance of local communities. The fact is, many are already unable to cover these costs of care due to low pensions. You know what our pensions are, and you know that with a minimum pension and even an average pension, you simply can't provide funds for a nursing home. Low pensions and poor social status, as well as a lack of space or places in our homes, are reasons for homes beyond our borders, and especially in Croatia they are quickly filled with our citizens and citizens who cannot live alone anymore. Madam Minister, I ask you: What do you intend to do to make homes for older citizens more accessible and financially attractive to our pensioners? Are you or will you do something to increase the cost of work on your shoulders that the caregivers will not carry home to the elderly?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. With regard to your question, I would like to point out that we need to improve the accessibility of services in the field of institutional protection of the elderly. This can only be ensured by the adoption of a system law on long-term care. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities shall support and cooperate with the competent Ministry of Health in preparing a proposal for a law on long-term care. In the existing system of institutional protection of basic and social services in nursing homes, such as housing, nutrition, social care and protection, beneficiaries and debtors, i.e. family members or municipalities, pay. Health care in homes is financed by a health treasury, i.e. by the Department of Health Insurance. The Ministry is working very hard to ensure that health-care funds are high enough to cover the costs of health services in social institutions. I can say that these days, intensive meetings are being held with the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance to try to raise the prices of health services in nursing homes. The provision of institutional protection in the home for the elderly shall cover basic and social care, which shall be governed by social protection rules, and health care, which shall be governed by health regulations. The cost of nursing care in nursing homes is, as it were, covered by the means of medical bills. On the basis of the Social Protection Act, however, basic and social care must be paid by the beneficiaries and their debtors. On the basis of the Regulation on the criteria for fixing exemptions in the case of inability to pay social security services by the beneficiary, the costs of the service shall, of course, be borne by the family members and then by the municipality or the Republic of Slovenia. In the current system of institutional protection in work relating to basic and social care, therefore, they are not directly covered by the appropriations from the budget and the service is paid by the beneficiary in the context of its payment capacity. The increase in prices of services at the beginning of 2019 is, of course, caused by higher costs for employees who carry out basic and social care in nursing homes. Labour costs represent about 50% of the price structure, which means a 4% increase in wages by 2% higher service prices. The State may provide additional resources only to cover that part of the costs resulting from the increase in salaries financed from the budget. Therefore, as we say, we are working to raise the funds allocated to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in the homes for the elderly. However, I would like to point out that the fundamental mechanisms of the social state, which fall within the competence of our ministry, have been strengthened in recent times. All austerity measures in the area of family and social policy have been abolished, social security benefits, cash social assistance and a social security allowance for women over 63 years of age and for men over 65 years have been increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament will make a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u202	I must say that the elderly who live in homes for older citizens do not object to the fact that they have been paid by people who are employed in their homes and who care for them night and day have risen. But they want to tell us that simply and simply on the basis of minimum pensions they are not able to pay the cost of accommodation. See, I am very concerned because I live not far from the Croatian border, that more and more of our citizens, citizens, go to Croatia and survive the age of this life. It's a matter of concern. This is not enough to go only to the Croatian sea, but eventually the elderly will have to go actually to Croatia to survive this third life period. And let's say, I'll say, the cruelest, because sometimes life runs out, and that's what happens to them, that their lives have to run out somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The following will raise the oral question of Jelka Godec, namely, Minister of Health Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Our health care is just like Mr. Fakin – it's gone. I think that the issue of health today is important because I am interested in what we will see in 2019 or during this government. In fact, if we look at the Government's legislative plan for 2019, you have the envisaged government, adopted four laws, and not one of these laws is essentially mandatory, writes the paper. Except for one, the Drug Act, it says mandatory Aha, twice mandatory. [[…]] Health and Health Insurance Act: not required. This is a law that we hear a lot about today, especially about how and how we will contribute to our health system. Minister Fakin himself said at the presentation, when he was not yet a minister, that when he left with ZZZS, there was so much and so much money, so two years ago or now, after two years when he was gone, there was 400 million more money in the healthcare system. So 2019, 2017, the difference of 400 million in the healthcare system, yet today, still, still, so much money more, the health system walks. Now, what we can do on foot, we can even aim for this session, we have already said all that, I think the citizens know that. The coalition contract is one of the challenges of the coalition, it says: ensuring the financial sustainability and stability of the health system, namely that supplementary health insurance is abolished and transferred to compulsory health insurance while maintaining the same level of rights. So abolishing a voluntary supplemental one and essentially making it mandatory. Minister Fakin with statements “today so, otherwise” little media about this. The latest version is that the supplementary health insurance will not be abolished and, despite the fact that it is not terminated, the rate of contribution is expected to rise. Therefore, my question to the minister, who is obviously not there or perhaps still to come, is still a few seconds: Does the Minister plan with the Health and Health Insurance Act to abolish supplementary health insurance or not or how the health system in Slovenia will be financed in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, will you succeed? Then go ahead. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u206	How will the health system be financed in Slovenia in the future? As you know, a major professional debate took place during the time of the former Minister. This debate has been going on for 10 years in Slovenia in professional circles, what we are going to do or what we are not going to do. The debate is currently under way on the need to level the levels of contribution. We now have different levels of contribution from 13.45 down to a few percent of the cadastral income. In the past, only individual social groups have tried to achieve the most favourable ways of financing. Every time we come to this, it'll go on. My personal view is that we must have a percentage of all the revenue that we citizens earn in this way and in another way and serve us as personal incomes, that is most just, at the agreed solidarity rate of course. You probably know that an agreement, as a contribution rate, is always a matter of social consensus. And in this context, the basic issue, supplementary health insurance yes or no. This debate has been taking place intensively since the very beginning, and it intensified in 2000 with the so-called White Paper, or with Minister Kebro, who is the idea of ending it or transforming it into an ether. Of course, the National Assembly is waiting for a decision to be made whether to reshape voluntary insurance, but we can only reshape it with another donation. This second levy in this case, if this were to happen, amounts to EUR 500 million of additional money. All sources are known. These are personal incomes, these are taxes, these are excise duties. In this national assembly, this decision will have to be taken at some point. However, it will have to be taken very seriously because now this voluntary insurance provides about 20% of all healthcare costs. An excessive rush without an answer, from where we get this money, could be dangerous for the health system, especially for the individual’s pocket, if anything happens to him. Nevertheless, supplementary insurance is an additional form, not of solidarity, but of reciprocity, and it covers the costs of the one who gets sick. We have a large insurance policy here, over a million and a half insurance companies in voluntary insurance. And as it is said, decisions are more or less clear whether we will raise the contribution rate at the same time of equality or whether we will finance the matter from some other taxes. The debate on what level of solidarity we are going to achieve in this regard, and I believe it will be very varied.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u208	Minister, you're getting a little out of hand, as usual. I specifically asked under the coalition contract, given your presentation before you became Minister. In your opinion, the abolition of compulsory health insurance is a sensible move, so of course it is necessary to consider where to get the money from. 500 million, somewhere between 400 and 500, you always use these numbers. The coalition contract states: termination of supplementary insurance. On the other hand, we are listening to: non-absorbing the complementary and increasing the contribution rate. Mr. Secretary, don't make excuses to the National Assembly. You'll come up with a proposal. You'll come up with a proposal on how to handle these matters. That is why I am interested in the specific direction in which your proposal goes. Given that you are predicting this year's adoption of this Law on Health and Health Care, that you are predicting by the seventh month that these issues should also go to the Government, I am interested because it is now almost February in which direction you are going. You've been in healthcare for a long time, you've been in an insurance company, you know these things, and I believe you already know very well whether or not to abolish and raise the contribution rate or not to abolish and raise the contribution rate or something, or in which direction the bill goes. Since the last time you and I were with Members, we heard that you would put forward a proposal from the former Minister in public, then obviously your proposals – or you will not do anything new. So you're going to make a suggestion, one that's already been rejected in professional circles, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u210	I think that such a proposal requires further consideration. In the professional circles, he was rejected because of the evidence of a rise in public consumption, which means a violation of the Maastricht Agreement, as far as I know. The proposal foresees, when supplementary insurance is abolished, financing by five classes according to tax classes, which, of course, is a problem with the issue of decisions. There are many complications in the implementation of this. We have yet to decide whether to pay this from some general tax, such as half of European countries. I'm really going to make a proposal, but I'm already looking forward to this debate. In no case will it be an easy decision for any government and for no parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The next question will be asked by Ambassador Natasa Sukic, Minister of Public Administration Rudija Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In Levica, as you know, we keep reminding ourselves of the poor working conditions and the grave violations of the labour rights of workers and workers employed in the public administration, and they are actually posted through private companies of those who have direct budgetary users, it is said by the Ministry, with the bodies in the composition, with public institutions, concluded contracts on the so-called outsourcing. Therefore, we are not surprised by another case that we have recently read about in the media, an example of the horrendous exploitation of cleaners, unfortunately in your ministry, a respected minister, that is, at the Ministry of Public Administration. Let me quote one of the cleaners' statements: "We have no salary for October, November, December, no contributions paid. Before the end of December, we were unable to apply to the Employment Institute because of the contract, when we applied, and we lost every financial subsidy because we were only employed for eight months.” Unfortunately, this is the reality of these people working through so-called outsourcing. In Levica, we advocate that this section of leniency should be set aside in a way that would ensure that workers and workers working in the public sector each day are employed in these direct budgetary consumers, not in the same way as in the winding up and in the way that is currently taking place. In this regard, we have some very specific questions that we have prepared, and I would also like to ask you for very specific or exact answers, since I have already presented these questions to you in advance. I want to know: How many users of the budget or of the contracting authorities corresponding to the criteria for the direct employment of persons performing work with the external contractor are in accordance with Article 60, paragraph 9, of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, how many workers are covered by this provision? Which contracting authorities can they be employed in accordance with that provision? What is the specific number of employees per contracting authority? The number of audited operators or subcontractors by public contracting authorities in relation to the determination of the circumstances referred to in Article 67a, second paragraph, second paragraph, of Article ZJN-3 shall be from 1. 11. 2018 forward? What is the number of early termination contracts for the implementation of public service procurement after the entry into force of the ZJN-3A, who are those who have terminated the contracts, why have they been terminated? If the periodic verification provided for in Article 67a of UNJN-3 has not been carried out, I am interested in the reasons for this inactivity and the timetable when you will do so. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u214	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Member! With regard to the number of budget users or contracting authorities corresponding to the criteria for direct employment of persons performing work with an external contractor, in conjunction with the new provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, which entered into force 24. 12. 2018, I explain that Article 60, which provides that, irrespective of the restrictions laid down by the law on new employment, the budget user's staff plan may be increased when it comes to the employment of persons performing work with the external operator of the activity that took over this activity, and this is a very important novelty. This limitation in the human resources plans in the past meant that budget users preferred to hire external operators rather than directly employ people, because it was mainly a matter of cleaning services, security services and the like. The law therefore provides that any employment of these persons will not exceed the permitted number of jobs and thus gives the budgetary user the opportunity to carry out such employment. Under the law, such employment may be performed in those budgetary users where the transfer contract is still in force. I have no data on how many such users are budgeted or how many workers are covered by this provision at the moment. This is an enormous number of data, given that these are procurements across Slovenia and across the public sector. As such, the Ministry does not have a basis for collecting and managing such data, but I estimate that the Ministry will be aware of this at least when verifying the number of employees in the context of individual staff plans – but here I am talking about budgetary users – of users, and it is not possible to ignore the fact that the new legal provisions are in force only as of 24 December 2018, so they are only applicable for a month. However, if you allow the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, which brings social responsibility and began to apply on 1 November of the previous year, it has amended the four articles of the basic law and added a new one. To facilitate the work of the contracting authorities, we have upgraded the information system, which allows verification in a very short time. This allows a response to be obtained immediately, in less than a minute, without placing an administrative burden on the donors of this data. The application is called eFile. Through this application, the contracting authority shall verify the taxes paid, contributions made by the REK, fines imposed for offences relating to employment and black employment. However, it should be pointed out that this application is only a tool that replaces classical and longer-term verification of these reasons by mail or electronic form. This is also the case with the Regulation governing the operation of this application. It is clearly stated that the eFile is a tool for electronic retrieval and inspection of data from official records. The application does not represent a database, the feedback provided is only available to subscribers and is deleted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Ministry shall only have access to data on the total number of checks carried out. However, in practice this legal provision has a significant impact, I can say that 367 checks have been carried out through eFile since 1 November 2018 on the basis of Article 67a – looking into the results of the checks. As mentioned above, the Ministry does not even have a basis for collecting data on the content of these checks. Of the approximately 600 contracts, 367 were verified, i.e. more than half, which means that this amendment has its effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for these answers, but I'm surprised the Ministry doesn't have a basis. However, it is budgetary users, i.e. ministries, bodies in the composition, but we must probably ensure some traceability that we know what is going on, how the budget money is going to go, whether we are going to outsource it or whether we are going to outsource it for employment within the system. I think there's gonna have to be something done on this one. And I would also ask you for written answers in order to have exactly these parameters ahead of us, and perhaps I would ask you to comment on how to work ahead on the better traceability of these matters. The second thing I wanted to say is that, of course, we often hear excuses or arguments, why actually outsourcing, if there is not enough work in individual institutions to keep these people, cleaners, security guards there regularly employed. That is why we have been proposing in Levica all the time, but in the previous mandate, we are also continuing with this proposal, in fact, that a common support service should be set up at the state level to provide cleaners, ministry guards, for all public institutions, who are actually using outsourcing. I think that this would be what would provide the workers with the right working conditions, where they would prevent these horrendous violations that are taking place, these exploitations, where they would, of course, be transparent in dealing with money, meaningfully distribute these things and make it impossible for some individuals to take advantage of them, who have literally sucked themselves into the public budget and so on. But maybe a little later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you. I just wanted to say that, at the time of the amendment of Law 67a, Article 67a did not provide a legal basis for access to specific content when we examine service providers, as far as their social responsibility is concerned. Unfortunately, this legal basis is not yet in law. This was last year’s parliamentary law, perhaps too hasty, but this was not considered. It is, of course, worth considering that this will also be complemented accordingly. Perhaps only because you mentioned the case of the Ministry of Public Administration – of course, in this case the Ministry of Public Administration ran a public contract and then was also an contractor, but almost for the entire state administration and some other authorities. So this company wasn't just cleaning up at the Ministry of Public Administration. And when we found out after telling the workers, we realized that something was going on, we also started the proper procedures. After multiple meetings with the management of this company, we simply had to decide to terminate the contract. Unfortunately for all the employees and employees in this company, but we have no choice. It is interesting, however, that when looking into the eFile, there was no evidence that this employer would not pay any contributions or not pay the workers. Later, it became clear that part of the workers were not really paid, but we do not have data on how much. We have simply been forced to terminate this treaty because of such a clear violation of labour law. I absolutely agree with this, and the Prime Minister of the Government at the outset said that there would be a need to consider a different way of hiring people in the event of work-intensive work, perhaps in the way you mentioned it. Although there is no broader debate so far, I think we need to react quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you. In line with the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we hold a broader debate on this extremely pressing issue. Here I am pleased, Minister, that you have also said this somehow to make such a debate more necessary and necessary, especially because it is a real problem of extremely exploitative practices of these individuals, which, for example, this company, in particular, has received 400 000 euros from the country, 250 000 has remained due to its employees. [[…]] Imagine that horror. These are real companies that are strengthening their capacity at the expense of state budget money, they are strengthening, they are becoming competitive on the market, these spirals are constantly taking place, they are competing with each other, they are showing up as strong and they are getting new budgetary resources on the basis of these data, and eventually they turn out to be this facade what we actually saw. I would therefore suggest that we have a serious debate to take a deep look at this aspect of the chastity and, of course, perhaps even a broader discussion of the chastity, but outsourcing is one of the more sad faces of this chastity situation of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now only a footnote on the requirement for written additional explanations. In the context of oral questions, oral answers are provided, but if the Minister wishes to explain something further in writing later, he may decide to do so, otherwise there is no obligation. Let's move on. The following gets the word of Mr Jožef Horvat, who will ask the Minister of Public Administration Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Minister! To you, Minister of Public Administration, Mr Rudi Medved, I am addressing a very simple question. I want to know: Why is the Slovenian public sector in comparative international scales of its effectiveness, its support to businesses and its attractive business environment, and its provision of quality and rapid services to citizens so low? Later on, I will be a little bit more about these international scales, not any scale, but a scale that has been made by, say, the World Economic Forum, which is not anybody's. At the end of 2018, Mr Minister, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed with the public sector unions a strike agreement setting out a general raise in salaries for almost all employees, improving the evaluation of individual jobs and higher allowances for holiday work, night work, Sunday work and so on. The agreement is worth almost EUR 306 million by 2020, according to information from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the funds for payment of work performance remained frozen until 1 July 2020. I'm also interested, Mr. Secretary: How will the Ministry ensure greater efficiency of the public sector? Well, it's crucial. We have no problem in New Slovenia that now the public sector gets higher wages. Some people deserve it very much. However, the key service that the public sector needs to see in general, especially here I am thinking of the service of the country in a narrower sense – this service must be perfect, in particular extremely effective. As it is said, to ensure a good business environment and, of course, to an individual citizen, this service must be effective. We are now at the beginning of our term of office, Mr Minister, surely you already have some ideas about how to increase this efficiency, and I would like to know what your thoughts are in this direction. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The agreement with the public sector unions is indeed worth around EUR 308 million until 2021, including 2021. In doing so, I would like to reiterate that in this case it was a matter of resolving the sentence requirements that this agreement directly led to the absence of these sentences. And we know what it would mean if the public sector were to make its predictions and strike as mass as it was predicted, what it would mean for the economy, of course, for all of us, for the whole of society. For this agreement to be possible, something had to be abandoned. And in agreement with the unions, we have with a heavy heart agreed that the start of the payout or release is now in 2020, on 1. 7th in 2020, because it is a fact that the new law does not actually know the work performance. This performance in this classical sense has never been released in all these years. In some parts this also exists now in practice, but it is more of an increase in the volume of work, so not so much for paying the successful but for paying more work. However, the public financial picture was such that it was at the same time impossible to meet the trade unions in terms of strike requirements and at the same time to release the payment of labour performance. This would in fact mean then what you have also said in your question, honourable Member, that would, of course, be the financial burden of 450 million and more immediately, instantly. So the unions went in this case to the government negotiating group, that at the cost of eliminating the anomalies that the unions have always stressed in the past under this payroll system, that this passport raise also means that we stop talking about anomalies and that we can start from here on out. This is actually what we are doing these days. On Thursday, the government will appoint a wider inter-departmental group to coordinate public sector wage legislation and public servants law. The agreement with the unions is that they will continue to participate in this dialogue. Of course, this delay in paying off work performance may also be good for something. We have some ideas – and I hope that we will also be able to reconcile them with all stakeholders – how to influence motivation and efficiency in the public sector through work. That with some corrections, some less, some more radical. However, this is about 20% of wages and, from a motivational point of view, it is quite a few means. Of course, there will be a rather difficult dialogue on the one hand with the unions again. So that there are more versions, more options, and above all, we want to translate this spirit of management from the real sector into the public sector and increase the competences of the leaders of decision makers, who, therefore, by amending the legislation, could, by means of a system of work performance, also reward and motivate other sources. This is somehow our focus, which we are focusing on in 2019, and is also, on the one hand, a direct consequence of an agreement with the unions on strike requirements. We have ensured social peace for the next few years that we can now in peace, without the threat of strikes, without the knife behind our necks, if I say so, agree on how to reform the pay system in the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Minister, I particularly liked what you said, and I will remember this very much – somehow implementing this managerial spirit from the real sector to the public sector. I think that's the key. We understand that both sectors, both the real sector and the public sector, cannot without each other and that it is a logical whole. You mentioned the union several times. Of course, I'm going to say a word that might be unpleasant, but it's realistic. Trade unions can only deceive until domestic realities are placed in an international context. If we believed only the words of Mr Branimir Strukl and other public sector trade unions in Slovenia, we would be convinced that, by its efficiency, the public sector, in the global peak, we are completely at the bottom of our salaries. That's the impression if we listen. But of course the reality is completely different, and it is revealed only by a view over the plank, which is actually missing from us. Mr. Minister, I'm sure we are both very ill-willed when we are looking at this scale of the World Economic Forum – the last available – where we can see that it is, say, the cost-effectiveness of Slovenia's state apparatus in the infamous 125th place since 135. The last seat is occupied by Lebanon. Moreover, in Slovenia the number of employees in the public sector is relative to the private over the OECD average. The average wage in the public sector is about €360.370 gross higher than in the private sector, and Slovenia is one of the countries where the difference in average wages is the highest in favour of the public sector. I have no problem with the public sector having a high salary to pay, but it is an efficiency issue. So I'd like to keep talking to you here about how to stimulate those who do good work who pull.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Of course, the information you provide regarding the rankings on these scales is not an honor. There's also some other information that's not so black, these are, I think, the blackest data I've ever seen. There are also some slightly more optimistic, even as far as the public sector is concerned, there is not much behind some European average in the European context. On the contrary. Not even by the number of employees in the public sector as a whole. It's somewhere in the middle of gold, and this data is about the same all the time. It is true that part of the European average exceeds employment in education and perhaps in health care, but we have agreed on such a standard of public service in this country. Let's expect this from this public service. On the other hand, it is true that the public sector contributes 15% to the gross domestic product, so the public service is important; it is not just a consumer. As a matter of fact, this is also the case with regard to this wage comparison, this is a matter of statistics in the public sector and the real sector, when we are talking about people with relevant professional competences, and I must tell you that people from the public sector, experts, are fleeing and moving to the real sector, because experts with certain skills cannot pay this public sector. The real sector can do it right now. It's just to illustrate that things aren't so black-and-white or not so very black. Of course, on average, we should not be satisfied. We must strive to be on these scales, and however we look at them, as high as possible, though, it is statistics. As I said, with the organisation of work, with the motivation of employees and with competences, with competences that people may lack, and in particular to change the thinking that people in the public sector will be able to make a decision. That's why we're on a lot of these scales where we are, because decisions just don't come up. We do have bureaucratic obstacles, but we also have extremely long-term procedures, which may not be a bureaucratic obstacle, but people don't. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm taking advantage of this business opportunity and I suggest that the Lapsus linguae State Council. The Council of State instead of the National Assembly, to which Vice-President Jože Tanko responds. vote on my proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting. In fact, the Minister has now given me some motive to start thinking about instruments, how to motivate those good workers in the public sector and what needs to be done to make our public sector effective. With efficiency – or if I now look at the real sector, the economy, we have productivity there – we have terrible problems. On productivity, we are in the economy, I think, 19% below the European average. We have a terrible problem here. Probably because of the inefficient public sector. Of course, I'm not just looking at black scales, I'm looking at those that are bright, and I'm talking about them too. But when I put all this together, then I get to one common denominator, which I somehow put together: the greenest country in the world, Slovenia, with the least efficient public sector and the labour market and the lack of prospects for talent. We haven't even talked about this today, you know, it's also one of our problems, that we actually have a young frame of reference running away, that we have a brain drain problem. I'm for brain circulation, but I'm not for brain escape. As I say, these scales -- which I'll throw in the basket, I'll tell you what, Mr. Minister. But when it comes to the World Economic Forum scales, this is probably just some relevant data and I can't accept it, it just touches me if I see that one of the specific areas in the analysis of the World Economic Forum is, for example, the efficiency of the public sector that we are talking about all the time, and it says: Slovenia has received a 3.1 in this area at the conclusion of 1 to 7, which is enough for 105th place between 136 countries. And continue to have countries like Sierra Leone, Kyrgyzstan, Guatemala, Pakistan, Nepal and so on. We can't. We have all the potential to be the best in the world, I'm sure. We have the best potential. We should know to keep that knowledge at home, to reward efficiency. I am pleased that we are here on the same side, probably the whole of this hall, and therefore I think it would be useful for the Government to hold a debate on how to make the public sector more efficient, especially as regards your area, the public administration. Education may be a special case, health care may also be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr Member, I propose that it be decided by the National Assembly, not the Council of State, and that it decide tomorrow in the framework of the votes. The next is Member Tomaž Lisec, who will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Juret Lebna a question. The minister is absent. If you wish to have an oral response at the next meeting, please say so separately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I myself have been informed that the Minister has some health problems, and I wish him to recover as soon as possible on this occasion. However, I wanted to ask Mr Lebn, as Minister of the Environment, a few questions about the situation in the area of chimneys in Slovenia. Perhaps a number of new Members do not know, but in 2016 we adopted a new Law on chimney services, which is obviously a much worse solution to the bad situation in the area of chimney services than before. Previously, we had a so-called concessionary system, which was in many respects and with many solutions bad, but Minister Irena Majcen passed a law that, in the opinion of both operators – although we have moved on to the licensing system – and, above all, according to users, is much more incomplete than the previous system. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, I look forward to the next oral reply of the honourable Minister to a few questions. I want to know: In the opinion of the Minister for Environment and Space, is the Smoker Services Act optimal? Are all sub-legislative acts in the form of regulations and regulations adopted, in particular, are they operational and may not even conflict with each other? Above all, I am interested in the following three things: How does the area of records in the area of chimney services, or the so-called EviDim record function 100 %, and there are no problems with it both at the level of operators and at the level of users? What is the Minister's opinion on prices in this area, are they user-friendly and are they such that operators can still manage their prices at a quality level? What about control in this area? Above all, I am also interested, and I hope that the distinguished minister will read the magnetogram, as follows: How are the accidents in the area of chimney services? I would be very interested in registering the number of accidents and the number of inspections for the whole year 2016 after months, for the whole year 2017 after months and also for the whole year 2018, because it is likely that we will find it easier to see whether the new law is in favour of users, and not least whether the operators are willing to implement it 100 per cent in spite of the bad law and despite the bad sub-laws. In short, I expect an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u233	Then this will be answered in the next session. The following oral question will be asked by Ambassador Franz Breznik to the Minister for Finance, Dr. Andre Bertonclj, and Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Before I start talking about liquefied petroleum gas, I remind you, my respectable colleague and colleague, that today it has re-emerged both diesel and petrol, that the multitudes of Styrians, Koroscs, also part of the Gorenjeks in Austria – I don't think I need to talk about this anymore about excise duties that are disproportionate to the transit state, I have said enough in two terms. I'm kind of done here. If all people, all citizens, pensioners and everyone else, especially those in the countryside who do not have the opportunity to join the so-called city gas, know that my saga has lasted more than a year and a half since I first warned my colleague Minister Restoration and former Minister of Infrastructure Peter Gasperšić of the abnormal prices of liquid oil in Slovenia. I checked the last price in Germany just a few minutes ago. In Germany, prices of so-called liquefied petroleum gas - for heating, I speak - on German exchanges, of course, different from countries, between 0.38 euros per litre and the most expensive price recorded in Germany today, 0.52 euros per litre for liquefied propane-butane oil. In Slovenia today, the price of liquefied oil gas is 1,10068 euros, and if you pay it immediately with cash, it is approximately 1 euro, maybe 0.99 and something. Saga started, my fight for windmills on the wind started a good year ago. Later, she also ran to RTV Slovenia broadcasts Koda, where they re-checked, so they relied on my question. They went to the citizen, I got more letters from the citizens, I can call the gentleman, Mr Tomaž Nartnik tried the most, he called me most of the time, he was also a guest in this show Koda. Together they found that something in Slovenia, i.e. with competition on this market, did not hold. I now ask the two ministers again, both for the economy and for the finance: Are you aware of what is happening at the Competition Agency? Has there also been any initiative or question on the part of the Government to the Competition Protection Agency that the suspicion of this cartel agreement between the two providers that exist in Slovenia, Geoplin, Bhutan, somehow break down and punish? Do you have any answer why in Slovenia Slovenian citizens have a hundred percent higher price for heating liquefied petroleum gas than in Austria and Germany. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Will the Minister of Finance be in charge first? Bo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u236	Dear Member! Initially, in Slovenia, the country only partially regulates retail prices of the main two oil derivatives, unleaded 95-octane gasoline and diesel. The retail price of the energy you are asking for, liquefied petroleum gas – UPN, the sellers determine whether or not they are free to supply and demand this energy. This question should be addressed to this address. As is clear from the question itself, the prices of liquefied petroleum gas to drive autogas on the market are lower than the prices of liquefied petroleum gas for heating, but the difference in sales prices between autogas and liquefied petroleum gas for heating is not due to duties under the authority of the Minister of Finance, Excise and VAT. VAT on liquefied gas is charged with three charges, which are also not under the authority of the Minister of Finance. These are: a levy on air pollution by carbon dioxide emissions, a contribution to energy efficiency and a contribution to support the production of electricity from OVE and SPTE. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you very much. And the Minister of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u238	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Dear Mr Breznik, thank you for the question. I must also explain first that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is not responsible for autogas prices, nor is it responsible for the prices of liquefied gas for heating in the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia controls the prices of goods and services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia under the Price Control Act, for which the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is responsible. Currently, only the prices of certain textbooks and prices of unleaded 95-octane petrol and diesel are regulated in the Republic of Slovenia under the Price Control Act, with the exception of motorways and fast roads, where the prices of these two oil derivatives are from 9. 11. 2016 form free on the market. In view of your assessment that the AVK should examine these matters, I must say that I expect that, on the basis of your question, we will also reach out to the AVK to verify these claims. The Ministry and Government do not determine the prices of liquefied petroleum gas. I agree, however, that competition in this area must also be reviewed by the Competition Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. After a question that was raised a year ago, as I said today, the show also went on. One reporter then started this question in the Code show. It was on the show on 22 February 2018, so it will be about 1 year from this broadcast. That's when they went to the Competition Agency. They explain that there are certain derogations in the field of liquefied petroleum gas prices. Dear colleagues, 100 percent more expensive gas! You're telling the poor people that you've raised their salaries for 29 euros and that they're paying heating for a one-bedroom, two-bedroom apartment for 150 euros a month. The double price of heating is paid because, in front of us, two of our providers are making a fool of themselves, they cartelly agree on a price; and the citizens pay a hundred percent more for heating up for two bidders. The powers of both ministers are not the ones they spoke about, I agree in this part of the response, but the government also appoints its members to the world of this agency. I hope after one year, after we've figured out what the agency should find out for itself, that's their job, we should all step down if I'm asked. This is, in my opinion, one of the biggest discoveries in Slovenia alone, it is a billion-dollar theft, most likely for citizens, and it is an imperfect competition that has developed. I think not one red light is on fire, but a few glowing lights if we are to make some leap and these monopolies as well as cartel arrangements in this area. Dear Minister, I hope that you will talk to the government about this, that you will also push on the Agency's Council and the Agency also on the Director of the Agency, and that these procedures will finally begin after one year in the Agency. Thank you very much for that part of the answer that is in your presence.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Is there anything else that any of the ministers present would like to add to this additional request? No, no, no. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. On the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues here, both on the left and the moderate left, to give me the support together to open the debate at one of the next meetings, because I think it is one of the greatest discoveries concerning the theft of citizens. This discovery is not your fault, perhaps the current government, but it is some very logical consequence of a failed transition and a market that has failed to establish full competition in this area. I hope that together we can take a step forward so that we can listen to citizens right in the middle of the heating season to lower the price and press these two competitors through the Competition Agency or release new providers from abroad in order to establish at least a part of this competition. And, of course, a penalty for both tenderers, which must be appropriate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to tell me that the journalists have somehow shut down, some citizens have then written on RTV Slovenia, after this broadcast they have not received any more answers, and these journalists have also been quiet in recent months, so this story has not continued. I will continue this story myself, and now I ask you whether you will support me in the vote tomorrow to bring this story together to the final epilogue. I think you are aware that at one euro per litre of liquefied petroleum gas for heating in Germany today, prices vary, depending on the countries, from 0.38 to 0.52 euros per litre. I hope you are aware that, together, at least we can give the citizens almost half the cost of heating just because of the two suppliers who seem to have an agreed agreement. I think that this suspicion, which I repeat all the time, is seriously justified and the agency has not done its job in one year. That's it. I hope the Minister of Infrastructure heard it. Maybe this is part of your jurisdiction. Minister, I hope that you too will hear and that you will also give your fellow Members a green light to help us clarify this problem in Slovenia, which is acute and abnormal. I think that even those who are dealing specifically with pensioners and citizens who are on the verge of survival can, by one vote or by two, make it possible to make some way, some process that might happen through the agency; and by pressing both bidders to lower the agreed prices. Thank you very much and all the good.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. It's a Magnificent message. Meira Hot will raise an oral question to the Minister of Infrastructure of Magi. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u244	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, the issue of coastal high-speed roads H6 Jagodje-Lucia and H5 Koper-Dragonja has been dragging for many years. The H5 fast road is considered to be the main service transit road between Kopro and Dragonjo in the spatial plans and the Resolution on the national transport development programme until 2030, while the H6 fast road is intended to relieve traffic and ultimately link coastal cities. Let me remind you that in 2016 the Pyran Municipal Council unanimously adopted a decision requiring the cessation of the procedures for obtaining a construction permit for the H6 fast road and, together with nationals and with all citizens, strongly opposed the construction of this section. Why is that? The construction of the H6 fast road would undoubtedly further burden the environment, but in particular it would mean total destruction and destruction of the entire string valley, which is actually the natural heritage of the municipality of Piran. Moreover, the H6 road, which is currently designed, would severely destroy and degrade the entire area with all viaducts, tunnels and other accompanying construction facilities, where the planned route would run, especially the wider Lucija Valley. Since the existing plans for the construction of the route did not include an appropriate road solution towards the border crossing of Sečovlja, but the route ends in the centre of the settlement, this will certainly result in an extraordinary burden in space and crowd. As you no doubt know, during the peak of summer holidays, when most tourists collide across these two roads to Croatia, there are unbearable congestions and chaos on coastal roads. Not only is the connecting road between Izola and Sečovija and the environment overloaded, but also for the home and the local population, life in the summer season is very difficult. This makes it almost impossible for households to access their homes and farms, and they wait in the columns for hours, even though they drive from their work at home. Construction of the H6 road would, in addition to these intolerable conditions, cause further delays and further make the lives of locals more difficult. Therefore, such a solution is not acceptable and does not solve any problems so far. Peter Gasperšič, your predecessor, has responded in a similar parliamentary question and at some meetings between representatives of the Piran Municipality, Darsa and the Ministry, that the dynamics of the two roads will be adjusted in a way to first implement the link between Dragoja-Koper, i.e. H5, and then the construction of the fast road Jagodje-Lucija, i.e. the road H6. On the basis of the above, I ask you: Is it not reasonable that the current project and construction of the road H6 Jagodje-Lucia may be completely abandoned, and all efforts are made to build the Koper-Dragonja road as soon as possible, which, unlike the previously mentioned one, is prudent and would resolve the issue of transit traffic, which seriously burdens the municipality of Piran?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Dear Member, as you have already mentioned, the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia by 2030 and the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme by 2030 foresee the construction of both of these fast roads: Koper-Dragonja and Jagodje-Lucija. The appropriate flow for remote traffic against Croatian Istria as well as for targeted original traffic in Koper will be ensured by an appropriate road link that will secede from the existing coastal road in the Bertokov area and take place against Dragonji. On this route is particularly important and priority construction of the Shalara bypass, which will eliminate excessive emissions and ensure an adequate environment in the residential environment. The fast road to Lucija will improve the inadequate transport and transport safety conditions on the existing road, where the daily traffic volume exceeds its capacity. I estimate that important tourist centres on the Slovenian coast need to be given better accessibility and better transport conditions. However, I certainly do not want the Koper-Lucia area to be further burdened by transit traffic. We will take into account the will and demands of local communities and local people with the priority of building road links that will relieve the area of the disrupting remote traffic between Kopro and Lucija. However, it must be made clear that for the construction of the fast road Jagodje-Lucia, most of the necessary properties have already been bought and project documentation has also been produced. Since the local environment has been informed of the planned project already in the process of putting the road route into space, it is unfortunate that the construction priorities have not been aligned in time to join the purchase of real estate and the preparation of implementation projects so that the following activities can continue to be followed. However, I must make it clear that on G2-111, from Jagodje to Lucija, the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia is planning to improve traffic safety and accuracy of the following measures: the arrangement of the circular intersection of Lucija. The works already carried out by Grafist will be completed by the end of January. The contract value of parts amounts to poor EUR 400,000 and is funded by our directorate and municipality on the basis of a previously signed co-financing agreement; a directorate of EUR 268 000 and a municipality of EUR 130 000. And the arrangement of the court of Strujan: at the intersection of the roads of Jagodje-Valeta, Strujan-Vila Tartini and Strujan-Kavari. Work in the value of the poor €561,000 is carried out by Asfalti Ptuj, d.o.o. and the completion of the works is foreseen in April this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u247	Thank you very much. You have the floor to supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am very pleased that you will take into account the proposals of the local environment and that you will do everything possible to ensure that the Koper-Schmarje-Dragon route is carried out as a matter of priority. Since we mentioned earlier that the environment is very overloaded during the summer season, I am interested in: Are there any additional measures that you have just listed against the Sečovje border crossing during summer holidays to minimise this burden? And in this context, we would have substantiations. In the past, the municipality, as well as social initiatives, have proposed that a certain local road, which is essentially intended for agricultural purposes at the moment, may be remodeled or that the destination should be remodeled and that this road should somehow be directed to the local population, who cannot reach their own homes during the severe summer season. They're there in columns four or five hours, because there's simply no department to get to their homes. Is there any option that this local road, which is currently intended for agricultural purposes, should be allocated to the local population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Here, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u250	Thank you. As far as this additional question is concerned, this accessible road to residential facilities is within local jurisdiction and it is difficult for me to say at this point how and what things could be arranged. If this is an initiative on your part, we will check the possibility that these things will be arranged in such a way that the locals will be as pleased as possible, because we are aware that in the summer months a little before and shortly after the loading season in this area is really great.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u252	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I have been approached by parents from Ptuj and the surrounding areas who, due to low incomes from employment, unemployment or disease, as well as other burdens of income, cannot meet the contractual obligations to the selected kindergartens and schools visited by their children. To illustrate the problem, let me point out that avian kindergartens have 100 000 Euros of such debt. Thus, parents, in addition to poverty and everyday deprivation, strive to provide their children with as much pleasant and carefree childhood as possible, even with horrendous debts and threats of execution. Given this information and the fact that you have listed coalition parties in the coalition contract, that we will provide more funding for education and education to 6% of GDP and that we will establish a free kindergarten programme, which we are also working on in Levica, I ask you: I am interested in the number of families who have been granted a 100 % exemption from the payment of kindergarten income per person; and the number of children who are granted a full subsidy for lunch from the same title? What is the total of all debts at national level owed by parents and caregivers to kindergartens and schools? How do you plan to address the problem of parental and caregivers' inability to pay in the event of arrears to kindergartens and schools, given that children enjoy special protection and care under Article 56 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? How and when do you intend to implement the provision on the free kindergarten programme under the coalition contract? I would like to remind you that you also said at the hearing yourself that you would strive for a free kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u254	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members! Thank you very much for that question. I think we have a joint effort and what you've described are life situations that are actually the most tragic. If I answer your first question, how many of these children are there? 3 000 200 children are those who have a fully justified payment of kindergarten. That is, if you want a percentage, about 4% of all children. The second question you have asked is how much is the total of all the outstanding debts, and I must say that we do not have the sum because, as you know, kindergartens are specifically within the jurisdiction of the municipalities and the municipalities primarily collect these data. You described the situation, so the material situation gets worse, people get sick, clearly, as you said, they want to take best care of their children. In some ways, I would urge them to go to the social work centre immediately, to identify a new situation at the social welfare centre, because on the basis of a new situation that is and can be established at the social work centre, then there are completely different decisions regarding the payment of kindergartens. May the people who are in distress not delay these acts. But as for kindergartens, they're systemic and municipalities, but they're between the roof and the avalanche. One is when someone really can’t – because of illness, because of material situation or social situation – but the other is simple payment discipline when someone can, but only late payment of the nursery bill. I must say that managers have not specifically addressed us in this interim period, although we have regular communication with them; but we do have some surveys that we have done in recent years that show us that around 21% of parents are late. I'm talking about the late payment. And then, here, kindergartens, which also have to be liquidity-appropriate, find themselves between the floor and the awning, when on the one hand they have to be liquidity-operative, they have to have liquidity, and on the other hand, parents cannot or do not pay. This is such a situation that no one is comfortable with and is one of those situations that we least want. Then it is in public education and also in private, those who are kindergartens, that it is not just protection, as we say at home, so in all those who have a curriculum, I must say that it is quality, which of course costs, and it is always a burden for parents. For those of you who can't, there's always the possibility of a debt write-off. This can be decided by the kindergartens, then by the kindergartens, then by the social work centre, and it is appropriate for parents who cannot do so because of their material situation to be able to cancel their debt. And the last thing you asked was for free kindergartens. You quoted me correctly. I really said we'd go this way. We have taken a few steps, but you must understand that due primarily to the financial difficulty of this step we cannot take at once. That is why we plan at this point, I don't even know how to say it properly, but it's called roll-out, so that we can gradually reach this goal, which is our shared, free kindergarten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u255	Thank you very much. You have the floor to complete the request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. I just want to make it up to you. My parents also warned me that many parents do not hope or feel ashamed because they fear that their children will be stigmatized, and then they do not go to the center or apply for these types of assistance that are available to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Gregor Perič, Minister of Infrastructure of Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! My question is related to some road traffic situation. In 2016, the former Government adopted the Regulation on Road Traffic Signalling and Traffic Equipment. This Regulation is based on the amendments previously adopted in the framework of the Road Traffic Rules Act and also touches on one situation relating to intersections where possible, so the law and the regulation give this possibility, hypothetically or experimentally, to the right at the red light at the intersection. This option isn't to be avoided. It was also known to us in Slovenia in the past, then it was abolished. It is also known by many other countries around the world, including Europe, and has many useful aspects, particularly in terms of traffic flow. and are therefore important in order to reduce the pressure of traffic flows, particularly in urban cores, or on bumps, wherever we run into such crossings. Of course, there is an additional aspect – ecological. It is less stopping vehicles, which consequently means less emissions and less environmental burdens. In this regard, I have two brief questions for you, Madam Secretary-General: Can we expect such a regime to be introduced with us, either as a test or as a result as a permanent one? Is there any additional sub-legislative act required to introduce such a regime in addition to the existing traffic signalling and road transport equipment regulation? And if so, what time frame can we predict that such test positions could occur? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u260	Thank you very much, honourable Member. As I have learned at the Ministry or as I have been taught by my fellow workers, for the introduction of traffic regulation, that is, driving to the right at the red light at traffic lights, the Road Traffic Rules Act should lay down rules for the conduct of road users in such situations. There is a need for a change of law, and I also support the idea that you put on the table, if I may say so. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have already begun to prepare amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act. This is not the only thing that we would change in this law, so it is difficult to say in the short term that it will be a solution; but it is certainly our goal to adopt this law or some changes in this law this year. Whether this proposal will be in law or not will depend only on the analysis that will be on the table, especially in terms of security. This will be my lead in changing the law. One hundred percent of the assurances that this will be included in the amendment of the law cannot be given to you, but I have given you my word that this is what we do at the Ministry, that I personally support such a solution. Of course, I would like to have arguments for and perhaps even against on the table before we decide on such a thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u262	Thank you very much for your word and for your answer. Thank you, too, for the additional circumstances. If I understand correctly, the existing law must also be supplemented, in particular from the point of view of security arrangements. When I got a little deeper into this subject, I noticed that our northern neighbours in Austria had also identified three intersections around Linz, where they would test this solution. It may also be good to look at and compare on the basis of their experience and practice, including in terms of regulating these security aspects within the framework of the law. If we take practice from the United States, they have this logic completely upside down. We should explicitly allow this at a certain intersection, but in the United States it is an explicit ban. All intersections allow for right-hand bending by the red light, except those on which it is explicitly prohibited or not possible. I certainly agree that the security aspect in this context is very important and that not all crossings are suitable for the introduction of such an arrangement, in particular where transparency is poor and then the safety of weaker road users, i.e. bikers and pedestrians, also deteriorates. If you have this information, I would ask you: Do you also have any feedback from our road managers in this context? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u264	I don't have it at this point, but if we have this information at the Ministry, I can provide you with the data. And once again, I would like to say that we are going to explore this possibility, this is a ride to the right by a red light at the traffic light, mainly from a safety point of view. Not that the law has to be changed for security reasons, but we will consider this possibility and everyone else. When we change the Road Traffic Rules Act, always the first thing will be road safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Ambassador Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister of Health an oral question to Mr Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u266	A nice welcome to all present, especially the Minister of Health, to whom I refer the issue of waiting species or normal accessibility to health services. The improvement of macroeconomic indicators and economic growth over the last five years have also helped to significantly increase the revenue of the health treasury or the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Most of the revenue comes from compulsory health insurance, where the inflows have increased due to the increased number of employees in recent years; in the past year even by €207 million, so the revenues are already almost EUR 3 billion. Unfortunately, this growth has not been followed by better access to health services. If the increase in inflows to the health register in recent years is compared with the costs of operations and interventions, people today should have normal access to health services, without waiting types. In the mandate of the Cerara government and former Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc, it happened the other way around. We have witnessed that the quality and accessibility of health services has fallen, has deteriorated, and waiting periods have increased enormously. People died because they were not given timely medical care. On the other hand, an excellent and dedicated doctor in one of the better hospitals in our country died because he was shot by an angry patient who should have waited a long time for cancer surgery. The former government, and in particular the former Minister of Health, misjudged the situation and based on the sub-theme that health problems are due to a lack of money. And on this basis, instead of reforming the health system, which would allow for better access to health services for all, she came up with some unnecessary, even stupid bureaucratic solutions, such as the fourth priority of a travel agent and the provision of additional funds, where there was some kind of populist action, since a few additional millions of dollars a year cannot eliminate the underlying causes of inadequate health conditions. Thus, the previous government allocated an additional 8 million in 2016, another 16 million in 2017, 25. 1. 2018 an additional 16,6 million and the waiting list increased. 1. 4th Last year – 157 000 485 patients, of which 58 000 are good above the limit. I want to know: What is the status of waiting patients on day 31. 12. 2018? Has this situation really diminished or not? How many are waiting over the limit, on the 31st day? 12. 2018? Is the reduction, if it has indeed occurred, due to these additional EUR 10 million that have been earmarked for these purposes?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u268	Mr Member, thank you very much for the question. In the introduction, I can explain something that we all somehow overlook or look away. The cost of health care is due to the cost of labour and material costs. New patients always cause extra costs. The dynamics of new patients entering the system are clear. And here's one rule that every year you have to increase the program, otherwise there are waiting types. For 2019, for which I am responsible, I can say that we have set up a number of system mechanisms, which I hope will eliminate waiting periods in an outpatient specialist. We're going to buy all the first checks the ambulances are going to do. In addition, we have made one system mechanism, the ratio of the first and the second, are no longer paid by the so-called non-talking element or by a lack of speaking. As for last year, 88% of this money was spent. It's too late for the system to react. They almost didn't know how much to do by the end of the year. This year, they have explicit instructions that they should immediately, the first, the second month, start monitoring waiting species and actively shorten them. You said: 207 million money. Where did that money go? At the beginning of the year, the medical union and I negotiated increased wages, and there's this money. Unexpectedly, the hospital’s stock has risen as people retire late, and they are also more likely to enter the hospital’s stock. In my day – 2,000 waiting over 1 year in the hospital stock, there are now 7,000 of them, and it costs. Each year, there are €30 million of new medicines. This year, in reducing waiting times, we made it difficult for us to pay for the greater wages that workers also need, and this balance is being pursued through. I meet regularly with the directors of the three largest hospitals, which account for 70% of the Slovenian Hospitals programme monthly, precisely to focus on reducing waiting periods. Yes, at the end of 2018 waiting periods were lower. This can be monitored by operators every month, according to the professions in the brochure of the Institute for Health Protection. However, the system has some capacity. Above all, we are disturbed by the fact that we are talking about standards and norms. Decisions as many as one ambulance, one specialist can do, shall not be left to the Department of Health Insurance with the role of an active buyer or manager who allocates people to work. I sometimes have the impression that with this work, with the organization, how much someone does and how much they could do and in what way, we do a little less in management. And all of my focus is now on the rehabilitation of Slovenian hospitals, this is the second chapter, and accessibility, this is called the reduction of waiting periods. Practically a weed. I have visited the clinical center five times in four months and we always talk about these and similar problems; it is the same with other hospitals.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor to complete. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u270	Minister, you haven't answered my question. I'd still like to hear from your mouth, for the first time, the number at 31. 12. 2018 to all waiting and also to those above the limit. And secondly, is it your assessment that these few ten million that have been added to the great populism of some in this system, where we are talking about 3 billion euro a year? Did that really help? I did not mention this earlier, or even the previous government on the way out, but you did too, and the new government invested an additional 35 million euros in August or September in this system. Exclusively for the reduction of waiting lines, it was said in Parliament. Now we read that only 20 million of this money was spent. If I understand you correctly, that's not even 18.8 million. And the government has already failed to respect Parliament's decision that this is a reduction because the government has already dedicated 7.5 million euros to other needs in October. Which one? What happened to that money? And why was it not possible to spend these funds at three billion dollars in this system? Because if there are 3 billion assets in the system, this means an average of €200-250 million per month. Two months was before the end of the year, since the annex was concluded, November, December, this is a relatively small proportion of the money. If the system were to employ a sufficient number of professional staff, if these people had the capacity, if the organisation of work were good, it would probably be possible to do so. But I believe that none of this works, and therefore I say that I feel that you, as a competent minister, are repeating the mistake of your predecessor and that you think that the main problem in health is money, even though you have repeatedly claimed the opposite. Now, as the competent minister for this area, I would really like to hear you say: What is the main health problem? And what are you going to do to make this problem go away? That there will be no waiting types and that people will normally access future health services?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u271	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u272	Unfortunately, there's not one major problem. But if I start, the main problem is how we manage and deploy people to work. That's what's been left behind in the last five, six years. With a virtually unserious increase in labour in Slovenian health care, we increased the number of employees by 4 000. It is said that someone has overlooked that these 4,000 people should be given something to do if I am very simple. At the same time, we're talking about a terrible shortage of outflows abroad, and we haven't checked it with numbers. I am now struggling with unions to get the same numbers – what is true and what is not really in Slovenian medicine. I often find myself told that – these numbers of yours are not accurate; even though they are taken from natural statistics. Regarding the reduction of waiting types, you need to know something that in some waiting lines we have made sure that we pay everything without limit; and this has still happened. If we've had heart surgery, if we've had this planned, we've put it off the plan for a few years, and we're paying for everything, there's no waiting period. There is also a significant reduction in waiting periods for two key tests to diagnose – the CT and the magnet. That's all that happens in three years when you set up the system – I'll pay for everything you do. The system simply reacts so slowly if you do not specifically encourage it. He was not encouraged in the past. Statement – I will not deal with the directors of hospitals; how to deal with them. The key point is management. Do we have administrations and management in hospitals that operate in a targeted manner? But of course they have their hands tied, because on the other hand there is a union that says – standards and norms, but if you want us to work more and everything in the mood. And then it doesn't work out. Not in business contracts, which have already become quite expensive. If the time is 30, 40 euros, the hours that individual hospitals pay for these additional programmes are also 70, 80, 90 euros if anyone wants to work at all. The change in culture, the amount of work to be done on a regular basis, takes some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u273	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u274	Dear Minister, you speak very well, it's very nice to listen to you as a fairy tale teller. But it's serious, it's serious. One is numbers, the other is facts. I don't know if you've been walking around health facilities in December, but you've seen a list of emergency interventions at a number of doors in mid-December. Like an X-ray, a purely common service. Since December 10th, 15th, no more X-rays have been received, except for emergency procedures. Not to mention those cases where there are two years or three years of waiting. This situation is not normal and I think that the National Assembly should discuss this under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. We should hold a public debate; not as you had a closed debate last Friday with representatives of individual political groups in this National Assembly. The public needs to hear from you an assessment of the situation, it is a scan, and the measures you will take this year to improve this situation. These measures must be made publicly available on the table, with all the normative acts and everything else necessary for adoption. Because in the last five, six years, it's been in the state treasury for a mandatory contribution, which we're hearing that you're going to raise again, and I don't know why 790 million Euros of more money came in. I'm sorry, that money didn't go to pay, not to joke. Don't joke. Where did that money go? Overpaid services on the one hand, medical mafia on the other? In addition to these few 10 million, which I mentioned earlier, a special law in 2016 was intended to cover the losses of the hospitals of EUR 135 million. 135 million euros. And now you see if I have read here correctly that this recovery to settle matters has not been successful and that these 135 million euros, if I understand correctly, have been thrown into the void so that nothing has changed for the better. On the other hand, we have in the same country, under the same laws, under the same regulation, with the same amount of money, also individual health institutions that do not have problems doing well, which have trained health personnel who have almost no waiting types. How is that possible? How is that possible? You are currently responsible for this area, and I think the National Assembly needs to get to know this as soon as possible. I therefore propose that we discuss this issue of what you will do, that this situation will be cut off, that waiting species will no longer be seen by young doctors in health care, but not that they will go abroad, and that all people in need of health care will receive timely care. I think that this is your duty and also your task, because from what has been said so far, we do not even know whether you will suspend additional health insurance and increase the compulsory insurance; or whether you will retain further increase the mandatory. Because the statements we heard in the last few days were a little confusing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u275	Thank you, Your Honor. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ms Maša Kociper now has the floor to ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister! The problem that concerns my question is certainly not unknown to you, and my question is probably not the first and not the last on this topic. However, the problem of the burden of primary schooling and, as a result, their parents have been increasingly acute lately, as it is also increasingly reported by the media. I am also the mother of two primary school children, and I have recently been approached by many parents who are convinced that something in this area is wrong. The fact is that the amount of information and data to be processed by primary school children is very high. Since the curriculum is very ambitious, teachers must be very quick to deal with the substance and, as they themselves recognise, there is virtually no time to build up and repeat the substance at school. Thus, the hardening of the substance is fully carried out by afternoon time and consequently by the burden of the home environment and of the parents as well. At the current pace of life, however, parents are also increasingly burdened with increasingly demanding services and are increasingly less equipped to work with children. It also seems that the curriculum is often too focused on preparing children for life through this rapidly changing world and encouraging them to think independently and creatively. But most worrying to me is that these children are not only overburdened and in great time, but also in great emotional distress, as many experts recognize. The opinion of many is that this emotional distress of children is more than a homework assignment and perhaps too little hardening in school is contributed by the very scoring system, which some children at the age of 11, some go to school a little early, force them to pay attention to all the grades they receive at school, just to be able to imagine for a long period of three years, some children can continue their schooling, high school, or some other school that they enjoy. Not only are the children stressed, but parents are also stressed that they also have to contribute with their work so that their children have the opportunity to have a better and better future, provided with true education. The situation is even more difficult when it comes to children with special needs, and there are so many more in our system. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Are you familiar with this issue? What do you think in this regard? What are the Ministry's plans? Are you familiar with the 13 points of the proposal made by the Council of Parents, and what do you think of them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u277	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you, Madam Members, for your question. If I may start from behind what you said, of course we are familiar and also have a date to meet with the Council of Parents. We are also aware of a slightly more in-depth analysis of the assets of the parents' councils and, of course, of the many other analyses we have at the Ministry. These analyses are professional and also come from parents, often from other stakeholders, or NGOs. Since the first day we have been in the ministry, we have been having a dialogue with them, so that we are relatively well aware of all these initiatives. I can say that I am pleased with this social interest in education, because each one of us is in one way or another into it again, and it is right that society is constantly discussing what it would want in its own educational system. What you are saying is, everything from the weight of school bags to the burden of curicules, to the excessive red tape of the school work itself, we are talking about burdening teachers with bureaucratic work, then too much burden on tasks, focusing on tasks and not on knowledge, focusing on assessments and not on knowledge; yes, we have detected all of this and we will address all of this. With all these constant concerns, and I must say that I am pleased that they are, but it should be stressed that our system is good, solid, stable; and if we compare it with other educational systems, it gives very good results. I agree with you that perhaps in a psychosocial situation or from a psychosocial point of view, it may not be all right for many to experience anxiety and some other matter. All of this has to be addressed. This is why the Institute of Education is already carrying out a survey of 3,000 respondents today, prepared by psychologists who want to determine how much our children are actually under stress, which is, as a result, the issue of their burden. At the beginning, when we arrived at the Ministry, we launched another analysis on the scope of domestic tasks, the number of homework assignments compared to some other countries. We know very precisely about teaching hours. If we look at those who are least against the most, Slovenia is in a group of those countries somewhere in the same level as Austria or Finland, which has fewer loads from the compulsory part of the school programme. If we just look at the number of hours, our children are not the most burdened, but it is not the only information and we must not refer to this data alone. This is why we will organise, and in the coming weeks we will start, and then just one beautiful part of the year, one broad social debate where we would like to have a conversation with all stakeholders – professionals, teachers, NGOs, this also shows the latest trends, including with children – to have a conversation, to talk to them, to experts and so on. Why? In order to get to a system that will not only be based on opinions, it will be very clear and will at least be an approximation of the objective recording of the system as we have it. And on this basis we will make changes that, I always say, are necessary, do not need to be revolutionary, but must always be evolutionary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u279	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I absolutely agree, even in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we always strive for public education, but it must be quality and in line with the trends emerging in the world, especially the rapid development of technology, the Internet and others, which forces us to keep changing it and bringing it closer to what is happening around us. The great success of the Finnish school system also shows that they are open there to change their system as quickly as possible. I also agree with you that it must have a first place in these changes of profession. What I'm worried about and what I'd like you to say to me is: Can we expect years and years of debate again before anything happens, or may at least some changes be possible in a more rapid period? Could a commission at least review the scope of the teaching substance and extract what is most important from it and thus reduce the scope of the substance in some agreement? That would seem to me like a solution that might not need a long debate. And one thought about this pointing system, which, regardless of whether children are more gifted for mathematics, music or any other activity, places everything on the same denominator and, irrespective of their psychophysical development, forces them to gain a certain burden on their future with each individual assessment; perhaps in another situation, they would pass the acceptance exam without problems and enter the school they want and also perform the profession they want. I'm asking nicely for a supplement, but what can be expected at some point in time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u281	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u282	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. Definitely some things can be done faster than others. For information only, let this not sound like it will last until then, but to our key strategic document, which we have and adopted, and also to the next will be adopted by the National Assembly, i.e. the White Paper on Education and Education, expires on 1 January 2021. Until then, the whole matter must be completed, or a new one, and all amendments to the legislation should we also come to terms with this amendment adopted in 2020. But what can be done faster is, say, change in textbook politics. Teaching policy is one of those that weighs the weight of purses and is not as interactive as digital materials and so on. That's something we could have achieved earlier. The big question is also given that we are doing an experiment this year in the NPZs that you have alluded to. How best to do the NPZ, we do not need long, multi-year analyses, but we can do this relatively quickly. The next question is also a real question in assessing whether numerical assessments or descriptive assessments or even evaluations in certain subjects. It doesn't need some long analysis either. There are things that can be done faster; but things are, if we are now talking about a little more overall renewal. Why? Because we're gonna have to ask ourselves, what are the professions of the future? We're going to have to ask ourselves what we're going to do in 10, 15 years' time, and that's actually the key question we have ahead of us. Every school system, as you know, is long-term, and before anyone enters and exits the school system, it often takes 20 years. And 20 years of schooling, so some things, some trends need to be precipitated and the system adjusted accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u283	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, honourable Members, we turn to the question of Mr Boris Doblekar to the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u284	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister of the Interior, Mr Poklukar, I will touch on a topic in the Member's question, with which citizens and citizens have already addressed me several times before and even now, better said, citizens and citizens, because the issue of lack of police officers or staff manca is known mainly in the field itself, not so much in the offices as likely. In municipalities where police stations have seen downsizings of police officers, criminals, police officers, and also patrols around the country, some have been abolished, some have been reduced, and then citizens feel this lack. It is not always that citizens or users of police services would only criticize the police, but it is a problem because there are too few police officers and they simply feel it so that police leaders no longer deal with prevention alone, they are not so much in contact with people as they were before. I would also like to hear from you, who probably knows him very well. I am aware that you have inherited a condition as a new minister and that you are trying to establish a system to the extent that it will suit all of us in Slovenia. I'd like to ask you: What is the current situation in the police from your point of view as a minister by individual police administration and by individual police stations throughout Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Member, it is true that the police are facing almost a thousand police and police officers missing from the Slovenian police. On day 1. 1. In 2019, 8 000 117 employees were employed by the police, of which 6 000 576 were employed by the eight police administrations. In all administrations, except for the Ljubljana Police Administration and the Murska Sobota Police Administration, staff employment is below 80 per cent according to the systematization of jobs. In particular, the current employment situation has been affected by a austerity measure in the last nine years, the so-called ZUJF, where the public sector-wide employment ban measure has reduced the number of employees throughout this period by about a thousand employees. Police have adapted with the establishment of an internal staff plan by police administration. These are based on a number of indicators and, above all, on the operational issue of police stations. The resolution of this human resources problem is established according to the employment priorities of police administrations, and especially by police stations, with emphasis on where the worst employment is; in particular, at Schengen border protection stations, we are complemented by a plan that the police have also drawn up. In view of the current staffing situation, I estimate that work on the ground is normal and is taking place smoothly. A number of on-calls at police stations have also been cancelled, especially those with technical protection, and we have also provided them. In particular, on-call shall be suspended where there are no detention facilities. But the rest is 70 police officers acquired in this way and 80 employees in these jobs, so that we have increased the number of patrols by abolishing patrols. In the area of human security and property in local communities, the number of police officers is decreasing, but security alone is not threatened by municipalities or police environments. I must say, the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Police, has joined the active employment policy, which has already been seen at the last Infomativa at the Economic Exhibition, where very proactive police have approached young people whom we want to hire in the police, we are also proactively performing in schools where we represent the police profession. I expect that the social agreement we signed with both unions, and we will also implement it, will also improve the status of police officers in this material and financial area. As far as human resources problems are concerned, we are also trying to mitigate them with a mobile police unit with a presence on the ground. In 2012, the first so-called mobile police station was introduced. At the beginning of December last year, we introduced another mobile police station into operational use, which operates in the New City Police Administration or in the White Landscape. As the current situation with regard to the problem of migrants in 2019 is still in place, a large number of police officers are also on their way to the protection of the Schengen border from those police administrations that are less burdened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u287	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for the detailed answers that I've been looking forward to. Nevertheless, I would ask or point out some concerns if you wanted to answer or if you knew. This removal of duty from five o’clock to five o’clock in the morning is also a problem that many police stations no longer have a safe point, which was also determined when this status was acquired by the police station. There are very large areas around the country where the victims have nowhere to run. That's what people really miss. The human resources problems that have arisen with the ZUJF, you sort of solve it, somehow solve it, and yet there are still thousands of police officers, that's a big number. I believe, and I know, because I hear it from the ground itself, you probably realize that these officers on the ground are heavily overloaded. And also this manna of police leaders who actually dealt with people on the ground has decreased by about 50%. And these preventions, which were once, from traffic safety to other preventions that were put in place, are now gone. It also solves problems with reserve officers who have two months of education, some kind of schlenkurs, and then they also get powers. Of course, they can't do everything themselves. And then again, this officer on duty is also very burdened. Even this distance, the cops are driving from Murska Sobota to Koper and so on, I find it very problematic. I'd like to ask you a few more answers, explain a little bit if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u289	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u290	Thank you very much. True, many police officers also travel from faraway places to their jobs. This is also the reality and the police have a priority in this mobility to slowly return these people to their home environment in accordance with their police work plan. With regard to safe points, I agree that the suspension of duty also means this. However, we need to know that where there are police offices, the availability of police officers at a certain time is, this is in line with the timetable and the plan. I've been to Slovenian UNICEF for a visit, and I've heard a lot of good things about these safe points. And here it is not only the police who have a safe point, but it is necessary to establish these safe points elsewhere in Slovenia, not only on the police. Every time she calls 911, believe me, the police will act. When we also talked about the manco being almost a thousand cops and cops, it's true. This number is large, we are also trying to make up for it and thus increase it. There are standing calls for police posts, and the police are getting a job quickly. Young people are invited to the police, but we need to know that a police officer’s profession requires a sixth degree or higher education. A call from the State Border Supervisor and a fifth level of education. This is about further education. But it is true that all these state border guards can also come to the Tacn Police Academy. As far as police work is concerned, last year my mandatory police policy was to increase the work in the local community, because it is in the local community that the police are the most effective when preventing serious crimes, such as crimes against property, as well as those with all of us at heart, that are children and young people who become victims of crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u291	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u292	Thank you, Minister, for further clarifications and answers. I believe and also with the answer I have seen that things are well known and that you are taking the matter to the right side, but yet I have not received all the detailed answers to be completely satisfied with them, of course time does not allow, even this is one of the reasons. Although you are trying and you want to improve the situation of hiring new police officers, you mentioned a fair where you promoted police work and a new job where new personnel are being invited, I think we should discuss this rather problematic issue, because you, as a minister or ministry, will obviously find it difficult to resolve this manka to complete about a thousand police officers with us, which seems to me to be a very large number and very worrying. I think it would be right to hold a broader debate on this and find some consensus all together, that we are aware that the police species need to be perfected, especially at a time when we know that we have a lot of problems with the migration problem as well as others. Several indictees are coming from the field to see more criminal acts being committed by various perpetrators. People notice that there are not enough police officers in the field, including the lack of civilian police officers who have previously been in civilian care and have somehow made it easier to carry out their mission, for which they are employed, but now they must wear uniforms and, of course, are immediately recognized. Here, too, people sense that there are problems. I'll thank you again for your answers and explain. I would really suggest that we have a broader debate on this very pressing issue. I propose that, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a broader debate on this issue be held at the next meeting should this proposal be given sufficient support in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u293	Thank you, Member, for your proposal, which we are voting on tomorrow in the framework of the vote. With this, honourable Members and Members, we turn to the question of Mr Primož Siter as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting from me! Family violence is a busy part of criminal statistics in Slovenia and the victims of domestic violence are too often women and children. Reports of domestic violence to the competent institutions are very rare compared to the absolute number. Cases under consideration require urgent action and an expert procedure for dealing with social services. The Centre for Social Work also listed the improvement of the efficiency of the work process and the improvement of the level of expertise of its field services among the main objectives of last year's reorganisation. The work of CSD in the field must be based on expertise, on update, on rapid response, because in some cases it saves lives; on the other hand, it always serves as a starting point for a good diagnosis of the situation, which then dictates the continuation of action by the competent services. In this regard, I ask you, Minister: Since information is coming from the ground that only an operational paw is coming, I ask you how the work of social workers and workers in the field is organised? How and where is the 24-hour job available? What is the number of social workers and workers who monitor the situation on the ground and then deal with cases of family situations? How do social work centres then implement this follow-up programme? Did last year’s transformation of social work centres also provide for a solution to the human resources shortage of field social workers and workers? How is the working schedule of social workers and workers averaged between work in the office on the one hand and field work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u295	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u296	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. I would like to point out that professional workers and professionals are still working on the units of social work centres and remain in the local environment where their users also need help. It is crucial to enable people to have as much access to social security services as possible and to other types of assistance. Professionals do their work on a regular, eight-hour basis. In the event of emergencies, they shall also operate within the intervention service outside their working hours. 12 regional services were organised prior to the reorganisation of social work centres. There was also an intervention service in each regional service, which covered the area of several social work centres. In order to reorganise social work centres in a way that we now have only 16 legal entities, a common professional service is established for each public institution. Part of this professional service is also an intervention service. These are no longer established for the scope of operations of more social work centres. The intervention service shall carry out the tasks of intervention in all emergency and non-derogable cases on the basis of a police notice when it concerns a child at risk in a state of parentless condition, a victim of domestic violence to be placed in a safe environment, a person deprived of his or her business ability or prolonged parental rights and without protection and care, and an elderly person who is without family members and who is in severe distress. The intervention service must take care of all necessary tasks that reduce the risk of a victim of violence. In the framework of the intervention service, first social assistance, personal assistance and accommodation in a safe environment shall be provided to persons if this proves necessary in a particular case. The intervention service shall be carried out by professional workers employed at the social work centre who meet the conditions for the provision of the first social assistance service and the implementation of the necessary benefit protection measures under the law governing family relations. The intervention service is carried out outside the business time of the Centre for Social Work. The intervention service is therefore a new task of social work centres and carries out intervention tasks in all emergency and emergency cases on the basis of a notification from the police, in cases of perceived domestic violence, the threat of a child, where a person who lacks full professional capacity is left without protection and care, or is an elderly person who is in the home and is in severe distress. With regard to the number of social workers and workers accompanying the situation on the ground, I would like to mention in the introduction that there are a total of 900 people working at social work centres, of which a thousand are 300 jobs funded from the State budget to carry out regular activities of social work centres. Of these, a thousand and 30 employees carry out technical and administrative tasks. In this context, professionals providing social security services shall exercise public powers and other tasks. This includes experts in the field of child and family treatment, domestic violence, decision-making on public funds rights and other field rules. With regard to the question of whether last year's transformation of the centres also envisaged the resolution of the human resources shortage of field social workers – precisely because of the awareness of the human resources sub-nutrition of social work centres, we have approached the Ministry in order to resolve this situation in 2017 and 2018, by approximately 11% of these public institutions, and the strengthening of staff continues this year with an additional 73 jobs. The new staff were assigned to the professional and administrative tasks, as we have come from the specific human resources situation of each social work centre. Professionals shall carry out tasks in accordance with the prescribed standards and standards laid down for individual types of tasks; they shall carry out their tasks in offices and also in the field, for example by visiting at home, such as distribution, such as a specific example of the application. With regard to the question of the extent to which the efficiency of the field services has improved – the concrete results of the reorganisation would still be difficult to talk about at this time because it has only been a short time since the reorganisation was carried out. However, I would like to point out that it is essential that intervention services are now organised at each of the 16 centres for social work and that individual centres for social work in this part do not need to be brought together regionally. Every newly established Centre for Social Work also has mobile teams that bring together the largest experts in the entire region with different fields such as psychologists, lawyers, clinical psychologists and other profiles. In particularly difficult cases, these experts provide support to each unit in a way of providing, in addition to a good professional approach, a uniform practice in the area. As regards the staff pool of skilled social workers and workers, I would like to point out that in the area of social protection there are various professional profiles, professionals in the field of social protection who have completed the Faculty of Social Work, including psychologists, educators who have completed the administrative and legal direction, sociological and theological direction, biologists. All provide different social security services also at social work centres [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u297	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It feels like you'll have another word. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Thank you for this information and I welcome the intention to improve; and we will judge success over time. However, reports from the field in practice appear to be such that the work that should otherwise be carried out by some intervention services reinforced by professional social workers is sometimes carried out by people who are on the ground for the first time; or family doctors report that they are carrying out this follow-up. My additional question: If after some test period, when we check whether this reorganisation works or not, it shows that it is only necessary to strengthen this set of qualified social workers on the ground that you are proposing? In what way would we approach the fact that, on the one hand, we will not impose additional burdens on the workforce, which now works as hard as the real terrain, and on the other hand, that the increase in the workforce will live and function? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u299	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u300	Thanks for the extra question. The effects of the reorganisation will be measured monthly. We also agree that the final document on the effectiveness of the reorganisation and whether the desired objectives have been achieved would somehow be prepared in June. That's what we're talking about with the union. At that time, we would also see about what is the exploitation of the reorganisation itself and also of informationization. As you know, the IT calculation was applied on December 1st. With 1. 3. we are also transferring to the Krpan system. We believe that all of this will entail additional burdens, administrative burdens on social workers in a way that will allow them to devote themselves more to professional work. In this way, we will eventually make this evaluation, find out what the effects are; and, if necessary, where to further strengthen the services involved in the professional work.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u301	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u302	Thank you very much and also thank you very much for your answer. In particular, in the light of the search for opportunities for improvement – in the final stage we are only talking about children and the most vulnerable group, about some opportunities for human resources reinforcements or to improve the working conditions of social workers and workers who are working hard on the ground and working – and that we will not point to anyone now, I would like to call and call in the National Assembly after a wider discussion on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u303	Thanks for the suggestion. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. We're moving on to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik to the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u304	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister of Finance! I would like to ask you a question below about the establishment of a demographic reserve fund. The establishment of a demographic reserve fund is foreseen by the Slovenian State Holding Act, in order to establish the demographic reserve fund by reshaping the Capital Society and the Blue Insurance Company no later than 31. 12. 2015, I repeat 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Today we are at the beginning of 2019. The fact is that the previous coalition failed to establish a demographic reserve fund. The fact is, there was probably a coalition on different shores. The current government, you're the new finance minister. I want to know: When a demographic reserve fund should be established under the Slovenian State Holding Act no later than 31. 12. 2015? We all know that the purpose of the demographic fund is to provide alternative funding for the pension fund, thereby reducing the impact or burden of the state budget. I want to know: Where are you at the Ministry of Finance by setting up this fund, and above all, what policy will be set up? Are you planning to form a demographic fund as a portfolio, an investment fund, or will you then transfer all other strategic investments into it? As the Ministry of Finance has also given a clear signal that a state-owned property management strategy will also be redesigned, it is my personal opinion that it would probably make sense for this matter to be carried out in a package. The fact is that the situation as it is today in the area of public property management is probably not the most optimal. This is probably the last fact that several state-owned owners have submitted an offer to purchase Istrabenz hotels on the coast.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u305	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u306	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Member, thank you for asking. It's true, this thing has been going on for a long time. Three previous governments have already dealt with this and have failed. Article 79 of the Slovenian State Holding Act clearly provides that Kad is to be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund by 31 December 2015 at the latest, as defined by the law governing pension and disability insurance. I agree. It's been three years. On my part, I can only say that we have set up a working group immediately after the term of office, and we have approached the development of professional foundations. The fourth Secretary of State responsible for State property has recently joined and will have two key tasks, which you also mentioned. The first is the preparation of a public investment management strategy and the second is the operation of the conversion activities of Kato to the so-called independent autonomous demographic reserve fund. With regard to the concept of the Ministry of Finance, let me say that our objective is to create an internationally comparable demographic reserve fund based on the principles of independence, independence, security, dispersion, profitability and liquidity in the management of investments, which is crucial for the fulfilment of its mission, which is to provide an additional stable source of funding for the public part of the pension system. That's why we need him. With regard to regulation, it is necessary to look at the international environment. I agree with you. International practice is that demographic funds are, as a rule, portfolios or investment funds acting in accordance with the principles, three principles are: security, dispersion, profitability. We can also take the French or Norwegian fund as an example. In short, activities are underway. I think we're going to have an expert basis, which we're going to want to check out, in a short time. Then there will be coordination, which will be very difficult in this area, and this will be taught by past practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u308	Mr President, thank you once again for the floor. The fact is, on the basis of the words spoken, you are probably aware of the shoes in which you have stepped; and that probably the key obstacle to the establishment of the demographic reserve fund is the mismatch between coalition partners, probably different views on Desus, not on the party of the Social Democrats. My opinion is that this is not so much about the establishment of a demographic reserve fund, but that you will probably be dealing primarily here with who will manage state assets, who will have the power, who will be able to appoint members of the supervisory board and thus have a direct impact on the appointment of administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, if you've already made a concept, as far as I understand it, a working group has been formed, I'd like to know: Do you have any estimate of what inflow a demographic fund should provide as an alternative source of income for the pension fund each year? What concept do you advocate as the Minister of Finance, who is supposed to have a demographic reserve fund – or as a portfolio manager or as the manager of important strategic investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u309	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u310	I must say, it may be premature to talk about the final concept. I am personally leaning towards what is known as an international concept for such funds; and, as a rule, I have already answered that, these are portfolios. We know the flow from Kad to the cash register, because we know this part. What will be expected, however, I think it depends in particular on the final composition that we will achieve in this work. Our focus in this coordination is to make sure that this concept of the fund is portfolio.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u311	Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u312	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will take this business opportunity to hold a public debate on this issue. At first I didn't intend to, but here I think the minister hasn't responded in this direction; and I think these coalition partners are going to take him back in their own direction. The fact is, under Kad's capital company law, it can provide up to 50 million years for the pension fund. This is a drop into the sea according to the funds used annually by the pensioner. And here I think if you're going to decide to set up a demographic reserve fund, we should think here about significantly higher numbers that would be an alternative to filling the pension fund. In the second case, it will probably be just a battle between coalition parties, here mainly between Social Democrats and Desus, who will have an impact on Telekom, who will have an impact on the Triglav Insurance Company, who will appoint members of the Supervisory Board and which names will then come to the administrations that these members of the supervisory boards will appoint. I am convinced that this concept is bad, and the fact is that it would be prudent to consider presenting this demographic reserve fund and the State Property Management Strategy to the general public and Parliament as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u313	Thank you, Member, for the procedural proposal we are voting on tomorrow. Mr Željko Cigler will now ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! More debaters, there were seven of us, who express concern today, one relation to the health system in Slovenia. I hope that, as the Minister has warned before, we will show social responsibility also when we decide on these matters. Decided that citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia should be provided with a quality, publicly accessible health system. I'd like to draw attention to this. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is 15. 11. 2018 decided by decision that the provision in the Health Activity Act that the excess of expenditure should be reimbursed for health activities shall not apply only to the public sector, to private persons or to concessionaires. Thus, the Constitutional Court considered that the freedom of economic initiative was higher and that more than the public interest existed in favour of public health and accessibility of the health system of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This decision now allows the free availability of concessionaires with the surpluses they create at the expense of public funds, which we say we need more because it means that the public health network is additionally opening up to the profit motive and the logic of the market and that it is further distanced from the solidarity base on which it should be based. The illusions that health concessionaires are charitable or an integral part of public health care, with this decision of the Constitutional Court and the consequences that will follow them, are certainly falling away. It also seems clear to me that those who claim to be concessionaires part of public health and that there is no difference between them and public institutions are deeply disturbed. This raises the question of basic and key health policy guidelines in the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How will you defend the public, universal health system, as Minister or Ministry of Health, when we devote an increasing proportion of public funds to the profits, administrative costs and reservations of private insurance companies included in the supplementary health insurance system? It is noted that at least €60 million per year is profitable, not to mention extremely high administrative costs compared to the public insurance company that you once ran as a director who actually has lower costs. Next, profits from concessions now granted by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thirdly, the infamous seventh paragraph of Article 53c of the Health Act, which allows the administrations of public health institutions, hospitals and health homes to practically without a deadline, there is no written rule, the services financed by the health insurance company in Slovenia are transferred to private operators without a licence. And for the fourth time, I'd like to say [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u315	Mr Member, it will be easier if you wait for the explanation to continue. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u316	Thank you very much. I see that my comment that we will have to start talking about a higher level of contribution, if we are to make this happen, has already come across the first violent debate. I take it increasingly personally that I do not have much parliamentary power, but I would just suggest that the rate of contribution be increased and that we see where we are going in this debate, because we have been delaying this debate for some time. As far as supplemental is concerned, we know that additional taxes must be brought in. And we avoid this debate here, if we can; but we show the current minister to do this. Then it comes with an idea, and of course this group disagrees with it, even though the models in the world are already quite clear on how to do it. This National Assembly can also decide to turn our contributions into taxes, we have national health care, as they have in England, Sweden, Norway and elsewhere; and this debate will be over in a moment's time. As for privatisation and profit, I, too, was disappointed with the opinion of the Constitutional Court, because ultimately it is only public money. It is now necessary to tighten the conditions under which concessionaires will receive this money in order to be approximately equal to public health conditions. As regards the greater efficiency of public health care, hospitals need to be transformed into some form of companies where work is rewarded and the punishment of the crime. This is how better health works, which ensures better conditions. Which means we'll have it on the wallpaper again, whether the doctors or the health department are public servants. Because if they are, we have what it is now. However, if we want more efficiency, we need to replace their salary for some flats, for the number of services they do. This, by the way, works well in private health care in concessionaires, where if they don't have patients, they don't get money. This doesn't happen in public health. So much so far, maybe the question goes on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I just wanted to point out this fact that we are constantly finding in the debates on health that there is a lack of funding for the implementation of the public health system, and that certain measures and findings are increasingly being strengthened as to what is happening in the system, that more and more public funds are going away from profits. Once this person has been summed up, the Minister-in-Charge finds that this can be calculated at the Ministry if all of these profits or what goes away to the public sector from public funds, if this is summed up, we can meet the needs of the Long-Term Care Act. I hope to say that if I'm wrong, please give me a calculation that I'm wrong. And that's what I'd say. I also wanted to say that health workers, doctors who, through their regular service in public institutions, go to work, of course, with the permission of the employer, to the privates, are also witnesses to the fact that what the director of the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana said – two thirds of doctors are allowed to work with private people, while there is no competitive clause. Third. 60-, 70% or less is an infrastructure used or operating room, and waiting types are emerging, and at the same time I am asked the question: Is there a standard for how much work doctors have to do in their workplace? I know that many doctors are burdened to the extreme, but I am asking this question - is there a standard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u319	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u320	Of course, this standard exists, it is called 6 and a half hours after the collective agreement, and then it has to review a certain number of patients, do a certain number of operations, but this is worse checked in some hospitals or not at all. And that's the problem, and now I'm starting to solve this problem by asking hospitals how many doctors actually do in hospitals. In primary health care and outpatient specialists, these data are very accurate and we have them and we can look at them at any moment and I can say that all doctors are properly burdened. But in hospitals there are derogations, and that's one of those reserves, if you remember when I spoke, if we evenly organize and release work, we'll shorten waiting periods. However, all of us want to make a lot of money and people are being drawn to where they can make a lot of money, and as long as we do so in the public sector, payments after work, we will not allow the appropriate control mechanisms in the form of directors, supervisory boards that will monitor the effectiveness of the implementation of such a regulation, this will not. That's another fact. Today you can have a young resident who is paid ten classes less from an elderly specialist for the same service. It is legal, but it will lead to privacy as long as it does, and then the whole wage system in the public sector is at stake, for which we have negotiated and built it for some time. The decision in this mandate is likely to be whether or not we are oriented after the payment after work, which is entirely normal for individuals, but there are derogations in the public sector. This is a key element to be made. However, in recent years we have forgotten about the directors of public institutions, we have somehow cut them off, they have been poor, they have been ministers who said that we do not really need them. But then, the mode of staffing that we have, the appointment through the government, the supervisory worlds through the government, the government, in fact, the governing authority of all hospitals, has achieved negative human resources selection – just like we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u321	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the question of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert to the Minister for Home Affairs. But get ready, Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u322	Good evening, President-in-Office. Your Honors are here! Since we have been receiving these migratory waves in Slovenia – and more broadly – we have been talking more about human trafficking since then. If in some way we understand things with the right name, the word is surely too cheap for smugglers, and we have to say quite nicely: criminals. Is it about individuals? It's mostly about criminal associations. Minister, you said well days ago that you don't want to live in a country where the police can't act against organised crime. I think that under this we sign practically all citizens and citizens, and I am interested in what this is like in reality. In fact, my question is that in Slovenia, for example, we have caught some 218 people in the last year who have illegally smuggled people, criminals are said to have been, while neighbouring Croats have somehow criminalized about 478 people. This increased by about 60% compared to the previous year. In Slovenia, too, it is probably the same percentage. However, I am interested in the comparison with Croatia, which has been providing a lot of money recently for additional equipment for these border police officers, as well as more broadly when it comes to border protection, how this is regulated in Slovenia. It says: Do police get new equipment? How do you do your selection? What's your priority? Thanks for the start.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u323	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Your Honor! I am pleased that you agree with my assessment that we all want to live in a country where the police will have the authority to prosecute organised crime. I don't think there's one Slovenian or Slovenian woman who would think otherwise. As I said in this interview; indeed, the difference between migrations in 2015 and 2016 is that individuals and organised criminal associations run smuggling channels through Slovenia and, in fact, in the field of police administrations Novo mesto and Koper are the most effective police and police officers with different operating methods. I must say, the police have adapted both the tactics and the methodology of their work. Here I can say that it's actually a success. I must also say, as always, that the Slovenian police are in control of the situation at the border with the Republic of Croatia at the so-called Schengen border and are actually acting in accordance with the standard that the police have when protecting the Schengen border. What a few technical means he uses to do this, but I don't really want to talk so much about these things out loud, because I believe that at the Commission's meeting to oversee the intelligence and security services, we're going to have to explain this even more about those four walls, because we're actually going to have to do it. I must say here that the Slovenian Armed Forces continue to participate on the Slovenian southern border alongside the Slovenian police, where there is still a presence of the Slovenian Armed Forces in joint control of the state border in these tasks. I also have to thank the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Army again from this city for the tasks they perform at the southern border. I must also say that the lack of police officers that we have, due to the scope of the tasks, is solved by the police in such a way that, from those administrations that are less exposed, it gives to the task of protecting the boundaries of its police and police officers, and in particular, the Government has recognised that, at the conclusion of the strike agreement, when we have completed the strike, it also regulates the funds or funds that are intended for a specific project to protect the Schengen border. This is also the case for better conditions for the work of police officers, not least for their financial evaluation. I have already said that almost a thousand police officers are missing for various reasons, including not investing in the internal security system, and I want to continue to equip the police in accordance with the resolution by 2025, where things are clearly recorded, what and how police funds should also be purchased. I think that there is another important issue ahead of us that we will have to discuss in this Chamber what powers the police can have, especially in the area of the investigation of communication channels, modern communication channels, digital communication channels, because the current legislation does not allow it, so we need to look for evidence where police powers are actually allowed and where the rules are clearly written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u325	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Ambassador, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Maybe we got along, but in that answer, I think you're going a different direction than I am. As far as these powers are concerned, you may not be able to come here together, or it is very important who has these powers and why they are. Indeed, in some cases, if I only expose the Owl, we can assure you that there are many things we can do in this area today, and they are doing much more with their own citizens, which is very wrong. When I talked about the funds, you also said that the police have acquired these amounts and so on, but on the other hand you probably know well, but it is also important for the general public that they have fallen into a higher income class and thus will lose a lot of what you have received. Thus, this solution has not been the most fortunate and I hope that you will also remedy it properly over time, correct it, because we are giving in some way, and we are taking it again. But it's not so much for you here. I’m actually interested in financial matters – I don’t want any equipment, it’s absolutely something that is probably not for the general public, but still. Look, the neighbors have equipped cars, individual police officers with extra equipment. I am aware that Interpol, for example, has also informed you about the occurrence of individual new weapons, they have found such a form in neighbouring Croatia, and Interpol has communicated this to all countries. I don't know if the Slovenians have ever found anything like this, but: Did the police find enough insurance when we talk about dealing with serious organised crime, which apparently always uses new arrests?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u327	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u328	Thank you so much for that thought. Security is a fragile good and, in fact, when I was talking about the powers to investigate communication means, I was thinking about the Law on Criminal Procedure, which will need to be amended and a serious debate in the National Assembly, not only what police powers the Slovenian police need, but also about the mechanisms of control that should be established here also in the National Assembly. I therefore believe that in this way, both at the operational level and at the strategic level, as well as at the international level of police cooperation, we will be organised criminal associations as well as individuals with this way of working and thus combating so-called human trafficking, because here the profits of smugglers are really high, preventing these crimes from being committed in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I must say that cooperation with the Republic of Croatia, with the internal ministry, and especially at the level of the police, both at the operational level and at the strategic state level, is correct and, in fact, here both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia have similar problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u329	Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u330	Minister, I think you will be sure to support me in having a broader debate in the National Assembly. Also about giving the police more resources for this area and equipping them with additional equipment. It is said that it can also respond to new phenomena of different types of weapons, as you have rightly said. And it's true, it's smuggling, which brings extraordinary things, I'm not going to say profit, I'm going to say profit, it's literally profiteers. Finally, it is right for citizens to know that those who come and of whom we often hear the word refugees – I use migrants – must pay to cross the Slovenian border, up to EUR 10,000. So it's probably not refugees, it's migrants, because 10,000 euros in the pocket – I don't know which citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has them today. In fact, I would be happy if you would support my initiative to have a broader debate on this and help Slovenian police officers. Last but not least; you said that the Slovenian Army is also helping – otherwise we know that it is a more toothless tiger. You may also consider activating Article 37a, especially the fact that the Slovenian Army also gets, where it helps, appropriate equipment and that everyone can respond appropriately and qualitatively. Surely your ministry will be more successful in this way, and it is not only one part of the problem at this time, but also of the part I have been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u331	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We're voting on your proposal tomorrow. I now give the floor to Mr Sam Bevk, who asks the Minister for Environment and Space, and prepare yourself for Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u332	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! During the last 41 years, a number of natural disasters have affected the land and its wider environment, including three earthquakes, the last of which occurred on 12 July 2004. About 800 buildings were damaged at the time, and 685 facilities were included in the earthquake recovery program. This year it will be 15 years since the earthquake, and the rehabilitation of damaged facilities has not yet been fully completed. On the basis of a decision of the Government in September 2009, the Ministry of the Environment and Space presented to the public a list of sites which were damaged in the 2004 earthquake and, at the same time, the owners of the property that had damaged the property in the municipalities of Bovec, Kobarid, Tolmin, Cerkno and Idrija called on them to submit a written application for the inclusion of the facility in the programme of the earthquake recovery. At the public invitation of the Ministry of Environment and Space, more than 100 applications were made. Experts reviewed 93 buildings, including 43 residential, 20 commercial and residential buildings, 18 economic facilities, 5 sacral facilities and 7 local infrastructure facilities. As we say, it will be 15 years from the earthquake this year, so the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. I'm asking Jureta Lebna: How much funding is provided for the renewal of the national budget for 2019? Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be able to complete its recovery this year? Some mayors in this area are skeptical about this. At the request of the Ministry of Environment and Space in 2009, what fate was added to the rehabilitation programme? Will the State Technical Office close this year, and how will its rich archive and documentation be provided? Minister Mag. I thank the skull in advance for his answer, of course, at the first next session when he is present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u333	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, you have requested an oral reply at the next meeting and will also receive it. I hereby give the floor to Mrs Monica Gregorčič. He has a question for the Minister of Finance. But get ready, Mr. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u334	Thank you so much for saying that. Dearly-respected Minister of Finance! My question will be about the management of state property. In July 2015, the State Council adopted a decree on the State Capital Investment Management Strategy, which constitutes the first basic act giving the Government or the Ministry of Finance a precise direction on how to manage state assets, the total assets of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, totalling around EUR 11 billion. The final provision of the current strategy states that the Government will review the act within one year of its entry into force and, in the event of changed circumstances, propose appropriate amendments. As we know, this has not happened in the previous term. Obviously, the assessment has prevailed that the economic circumstances have been sufficiently stable or positive and, at the same time, the political consensus in the then coalition is unlikely to be achieved. However, today, after almost four years, the economic situation is significantly different and most likely to require a change in the strategy. One of the most economically logical and professionally justified changes would certainly also be the removal of restrictions on the concentration of ownership on significant investments. It has already been shown in practice that the demand for the dispersion of ownership can prevent the pursuit of strategic and economic objectives, which has happened to us, for example, in the sale of NLB. Let me recall, because of this explicit provision, we had to sell the bank under the so-called IPO method, the method of the first public offering of shares. Therefore, the Bank did not receive a strategic owner who would pay an additional takeover premium and therefore we also recovered a relatively lower purchase. On the other hand, we have already been able to track in the media the reports on the possible strengthening of the so-called national interest policy, i.e. the preservation of companies or their ownership shares in their own home, irrespective of economic criteria. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Does your ministry intend to approach the preparation of amendments to the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy in this mandate? What will be the projected timetable, and in which direction should the planned changes be made? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u335	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u336	Your Honor, thank you for your question. Indeed, the Slovenian State Holding Act stipulates that the strategy cannot be changed, but only a new strategy can be adopted. It also points out that in the final provision, the strategy adopted in 2015 requires the Government to carry out its audit within one year of the adoption of this strategy. This has been done twice, in 2016 and 2017, and the past government has decided that the strategy, taking into account the positive effects of the country's capital investment management results, the substantially unchanged economic situation and the expected macroeconomic developments, does not need to be amended. Of course, a broad political consensus is needed to adopt such an important strategic document in the National Assembly, which will require the efforts of the entire coalition as well as other parliamentary parties. From this point of view, I cannot yet predict concrete solutions to the new strategy or comment on media releases at this point. We're working on preparing this strategy. I think it is a very difficult matter, where there will be a very thorough coordination, i.e. in this part. We have already prepared certain professional bases that will need to be harmonised. In this part, I see this additional complexity, and I expect that by the end of this year, we will be able to reconcile these professional bases somewhere and come forward with the proposal. I certainly do not expect this to happen quickly, but it will take quite a bit of time for us to come together.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u337	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I teach the word "magic." To Andrei Reich, who has a question for the Minister of Health. But get ready, Mr. Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u338	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Minister of State! My question concerns the prevailing situation you inherited from the previous governments. We know that in many Slovenian hospitals and health homes they do not have an appropriate cooling system. Last year we witnessed an urgent call by the management of the University Clinical Centre in Maribor after providing adequate living and working conditions. Some rooms and operating rooms reached temperatures of 30 degrees Fahrenheit [30 ° C]. According to UKC Maribor, such spaces should be only in this hospital between 30 and 40 percent. However, matters went so far that citizens began to collect donations for the collection of appropriate air conditioning facilities. We know that one of the key projects to be repaired is the surgical column, the gynecology, the infectious clinic. That's why I want to know: What stage are these projects at? Is something going on? At the same time, I see things a little wider. So I want to know: Have the hospitals prepared energy rehabilitation projects? Are they also applying for invitations, as are local communities, for the energy rehabilitation of kindergartens and schools? Will the Ministry, as the founder of these institutions, prepare priorities, i.e. order, the necessary measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u339	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As far as Maribor is concerned, we have checked and there is no investment documentation at the Ministry to answer your question. Even more, in 2015, when we called on Maribor to approach the energy rehabilitation that was then run centrally, Maribor did not apply for this energy rehabilitation – at least that's how they wrote me that something might be wrong. However, we have in 2017 and 2018 a number of energy rehabilitation projects at Slovenian hospitals, which are run as necessary. Trbovlje closes in 2019, Novo mesto energy rehabilitation of two buildings is under way, energy rehabilitation of General Hospital Celje and Jesenice, applications for co-financing projects have been submitted in November 2018, so the implementation of 2019-2020 is foreseen. You have opened a problem called the age of Slovenian hospitals. The Maribor Tower, as I know it, and, of course, the University Clinical Center Ljubljana were not built with a central air conditioning device and are therefore needed for a comprehensive renovation. We're already here at hundreds of millions of euros for one hospital or another to ensure that. We have €50 million available for the year. Investments are carried out according to the planned plan, according to priorities, but the priority is even higher. As has already been said, I look forward to the debate on the increased rate of contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr Jani Prednik will ask the Minister of Health Sam Fakin a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u342	Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of the Minister, good evening! In recent times, I have absorbed myself into the system of providing treatment for rare diseases in Slovenia. When I went into this system, I ran into a lot of open questions and a lot of confusion. Let me say that in Europe, a rare disease is defined as a disease occurring in less than one in 2,000 people. When I looked at this system, I was shocked by the fact that no one knows how many of these patients with rare diseases in Slovenia, because these data are not systematically collected so far. The more rare a disease is, the greater problems the patient has at the start of treatment. The problem is that often doctors do not know what kind of disease it is, and they send such a patient from one specialist to another, but usually it takes too long, and as a result the patient gets a late diagnosis if there is any diagnosis. If we add to this a lack of medical professionals and a lack of diagnostic procedures, these patients often find themselves in a situation where they are left to themselves because they do not have enough information on where they will get the best and comprehensive care. Mr Minister, I am also surprised that, despite the fact that a medicinal product is already authorised for clinical use at the European Medicines Agency, such a medicine is not available in the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, patients have no choice but to buy their own medicine abroad. The fact is, rare diseases in our health system have no special place. In rare diseases this is particularly noticeable because the patient is few and there is no such public pressure, but we know that – apparently – in this country we only come to realization through public pressure. That's why I'm asking you: How many rare diseases and patients do you think we have, given the fact that we do not yet have a national register of rare diseases? Between 2012 and 2013, attempts were made to regulate this area by drawing up a regulation on the systemic management of rare diseases in our country. The Regulation should even be addressed by members and members of the Health Council. I want to know: What stage is this now? How will this area be systematically regulated so that such patients will be treated in an integrated manner and adequately through the healthcare system and not by fundraising at charity concerts? The fact is that some medicines are not available in Slovenia: How will you manage the system to classify rare disease medicines on the list of medicines with ZZS? When can we expect the arrangements of the rare disease system in the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u344	Given that you said "rare diseases" – such a system in one place is difficult to manage. Each disease belongs to the specialty in which it is; haematologically, these are the most, pulmology, rare cancers, metabolic diseases and diseases of muscles and nerves. We know exactly that the medicines available for these diseases are 966 insured people receiving medicines. Unfortunately, these are only 5 percent because the majority of rare diseases are related to genetic disorders for which there are currently no medicinal products, but are medicines to relieve symptoms in genetic disorders. The genetic disorder can't be fixed yet. They assured me it was a cure if he came to Slovenia, that he was listed as soon as possible. So there's no big deviation. Here I would like to know which medicine you're talking about specifically that I can take action. But there is something else that this register of rare diseases could be bigger, but it's spread out by profession. Most patients, however, concentrate at the Pediatric Clinic, because there are also the most of them, of course, and there is a seat of this. The fact is, we only have medicines for 5 percent of rare diseases, they are financed from compulsory health insurance, and last year we gave you a taste to see, for these medicines, 7 percent of the cost for medicines, which is great. This is one of the dilemmas of modern treatment. We are more and more able to say hello, but, of course, it costs more and more, and we have discussed what we have discussed here before.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u345	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u346	Look, Minister, I don't know myself in this area, after all, I'm an economist. But I have to say, lately I've been to some of these charity concerts where we're collecting money. Above all, in Koroška, there is now such a sinister case of a one - year - old boy where we raise money so that his family can buy medicine and the country will not take care of it. In fact, we're always used to these excuses: you can't do that, you can't do that. Please, or I demand that you take a deep look at this and that such cases in Slovenia should not take place. It's probably not just my opinion, it's everyone's opinion. For a country like Slovenia, it is unacceptable that we have to raise funds for a one-year-old child at charity concerts so that parents can buy drugs. We probably all agree here. Please dig into this system and present solutions within six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u348	Perhaps politely invited to a conference on rare diseases, which will be held on 28 February 2019, where this conference will be organised by the Ministry of Health, where very rare diseases will be discussed. [[…]] This is already the 5th conference, so we are working very hard on this. The seat of all these rare diseases is at the Clinical Center; as it is said, it is scattered because it cannot be done under one hat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Let's keep going. Mateja Udovč will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u350	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I believe that we are both very well aware of road problems in the area of the Municipality of Kranj. In Kranj, we have been facing a traffic collapse for many years, not as a result of the reconstruction of the Sava Bridge, but mainly as a result of the increase in traffic and the inaccuracies of crossings. As in the case of impreciseness, we have a circle on Primskov. It has been quite a while since the mayoral elections, and since the Kranian candidates in their programmes have also advocated the construction of road infrastructure or have often faced issues of the construction of a four-pass line on the Kranj-Schenčur route and the like, me personally and citizens, the citizens of Kranj and the majority of Gorenjci who use road infrastructure in Kranj and its surroundings, they are very interested in when problems such as congestion in the corners, poor flow of intersections will be resolved. For example, a crossroads in the Upper Bitnjas, where we pass to the road Kranj-Škofja Loka and where traffic is as dense during the week, integration without blackmail as the mission is impossible. The bottlenecks associated with the increase in road traffic and the long-term inadequate road infrastructure in the area of Kranj are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure. That's why I'm asking you: What are the timetables for the reconstruction or construction of road infrastructure in the Municipality of Kranj? I am particularly interested in the beginning of the construction, dynamics and conclusion, namely the Zgornji Bitnja, which is on the Škofjeloška road and the road on the Kranj–Škofja Loka route, the Primskov Circle, the construction of four lanes on the Kranj–Schenčur route and the Kranj–Škofja Loka road. At the same time, I want to know: What road facilities are covered by the reconstruction of the road Kranj-Škofja Loka, such as sidewalk, cycling trails, traffic lights and the like? Will construction of a circular in Upper Bitnja on the Škofjeloška road result in any kind of closure? Where will the operations take place, and how will the traffic be properly flowed at the time of construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u352	Thank you very much. I'm going to say, it's pretty traditional now, too, about the Cranian infrastructure. I also know the problems we face there, because it is on these roads that I drive myself on a daily basis, but we go in a row. It's the Battle Circle first. Our Directorate, according to the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate, has issued an invitation to tender for the contractor of construction works, the call is under way and the contractor is expected to be selected in a short time and parts are expected to start in the spring of 2019. The completion of works on the ring and related arrangements is planned at the end of 2019. In the course of construction, traffic will be regulated according to the transport laboratory, but since it is a construction operation that will be carried out under transport, the traffic will be adjusted alternately one way across the construction site. Here I can say that because of the problem created by the reconstruction of the Sava Bridge, we have begun to prepare a protocol that will clearly record how, how, how, how long before, how long will people be informed, what and how long will happen at this section. So something similar to what happened to us at the Sava Bridge, when no one was actually informed — neither I, as minister nor as a user of that road, was informed — was meant to happen again. As far as the road Škofja Loka-Kranj is concerned, an overcoat of 2.6 kilometres is envisaged this year. As far as Primskovo is concerned, there is an invitation to tender for the contractor of construction works at the Directorate on this project and it is also planned that the selected contractor with parts will be able to start in the spring this year and end in the end of this year. This circle will also be restored, as we say, under traffic, so it will also require very clear communication here, how long traffic will be blocked, anyway, and of course there will be no complete closure. The Work Bridge in Kranj. According to the Directorate, works are already being carried out on parts of the bridge outside the road structure. The road construction will continue as traffic across the Sava channel is released. It is said that the closure of the section or opening of the road across the canal, the bridge across the Sava channel, is foreseen for 8 March 2019, this period remains in the face of favourable weather conditions, meaning that the works on that site are fully carried out in accordance with the timetable. And like I said, when they end up here, they're gonna start on the Work Bridge. As for the road Kranj-Senčur, this four-passenger line between the highway connection at Shenčur and the circle on Primskov. It should be said that the investor of this project is our director, it is said, the Ministry, and that at the moment an idea project is developed in several variants and the best solution is sought or coordinated with Darsa, who is responsible for this highway connection.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u354	Thank you very much for the very clear answers. I'm just wondering if I've understood you correctly that we don't have a timeline for four so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u355	Madam Secretary, please. Yes, you already have. Okay. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first is Jani Ivanuš, who will question the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u356	Good evening, all together, to the Minister, to the Vice-President, and to us, to the 12 Members and Members of Parliament – we are no longer here. It's my question. On behalf of the National Party, I also personally ask the Minister of Finance about this singing minimum wage, which was adopted last year. The Slovenian national party also supported this proposal; of course, who would be against raising the minimum wage, even though we, as well as Levica, found more than a month in advance, did not know what would happen to this minimum wage. The minimum wage, monthly gross remuneration from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 shall be 886.63 gross and the 2019 rate for income and relief has not changed. This means that the beneficiaries of the minimum wage and regression will not be entitled to the maximum tax relief in 2019. In this case, he will, of course, acquire the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the 2018 income classes were maintained in 2019 as well, I am interested in: How many additional income inflows is the Ministry of Finance planning in 2019? How many additional inflows from social security contributions paid by employers are planned by the Ministry of Finance this year 2019? I'd like to ask for numbers, because out of all this singing story about raising the minimum wage, plus only the revenue counters of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u358	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. The minimum wage is, of course, an instrument of economic policy, which also regulates the aspect of adequate pay for work. We estimate that the rise in the minimum wage in 2019 would mean around €7.8 million in additional public funds and €35 million in public resources after the elimination of allowances and performance in 2020. This, of course, means more income and social security contributions than you mentioned on the revenue side. The impact on income income cannot be assessed precisely, as we do not have an estimate of the movement of the number of employees with a minimum wage or an estimate of the impact of the minimum wage on the average wage. In addition, the obligation depends primarily on the application of all tax benefits to each individual. This is how we estimate that the rise in the minimum wage, as has already been said, in 2019 would be a circus of 8 and in 2020 a circus of 35 million euros for public funds. However, we are aware that by increasing the minimum wage and taking into account the added events - for example the regression - we are moving away from the fact that the recipients are still entitled to the maximum additional general relief. It is precisely because of these problems, the result of which was mainly lower net income, that we have introduced a linear overall relief over the past year. However, regardless of the higher income from income, higher minimum wages also represent an impact on labour costs, with the greatest impact on companies and labour intensive industries, where the highest proportion of employees with minimum wage. In general, it could be said that a rise in labour costs for employers due to the minimum basis for paying contributions currently measured from a higher amount than the minimum wage could mean that they would increase by about 3.4 per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Anyway, the numbers are listed somewhere, not exactly the level. You're saying yourself you don't know about that first question. [[…]] I just want to know if the government has deliberately forgotten to harmonise these income benefits in social transfers, whether that is [[…]] Why didn't the government point out that this would have to be rectified? You haven't answered that question yet. You've been talking about some linear relief. I didn't understand it the most, and you can say it in a little more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u362	I believe that the drafter of the law has also examined the other effects of this law. For any additional explanation, if necessary, we can, of course, prepare a calculation on a case-by-case basis. Look, there are different benefits for each individual. Thus, of course, a different calculation comes from this title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u364	Of course! As the topic is interesting, however, I would suggest that a general debate be held in the National Assembly under our 246th Article. Well, let's see. Maybe we'll find out more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 29 January 2019, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to ask the Minister for Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u366	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Madam Minister, it is normal for us to share in the parliamentary democracy of the National Assembly in some way in coalition and opposition, but I believe there are topics where we need to find a common language, regardless of which party we are from. For me personally, such projects are certainly projects in the local environment. An emissary who is breathing, who is in a good relationship with his constituents, who respects the commitments he has made to the electorate, who is also in good relations with the mayor, is certainly trying to carry out projects at the municipal and local level, where, if we say so, the country also has fingers. From the constituency, where I come from, Škofja Loka 2, which includes the municipalities of Gorenje Vas, Poljana, Železniki and Žiri, can say that in the previous mandate we have put practically all the projects together for excellent cooperation with Infrastructure Minister Petr Gasperšić and due to excellent cooperation with the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, in funding from the state budget. Projects are under way, projects are under way, some are already closing, some will start. As I said myself, when there are projects at local level, I think about politics, and I know that I have to work with ministers, especially ministers, who are responsible for infrastructure and for the environment and space, because it is likely that we all have a common goal of doing something for people. The previous mandate, whenever the mayors and I have asked somehow for an appointment at the Ministry, has always been a quick answer at some time, how – perhaps not immediately, but specifically for the Ministry of Infrastructure, I do not know if I have ever waited more than two weeks. Why am I asking that question? On January 17th, I called your ministry, Mrs Bratušek, and I received a lady from your office and I requested a meeting with you on the topic of the fourth development axis and projects taking place in the municipality of Gorenje Vas - Poljane. That's where you and Mayor Milan Chad would come in. Ma'am said, send me an e-mail. I sent an e-mail, waited until last Friday, that's nine days, eight days – there was no answer. There was no answer that the Minister was busy right now. We'll let you know later. So I called, and I barely got the cabinet because the secretary had already called, or was it a security service, and she just said that the secretary was at a meeting — the receptionist can't know whether you're in a meeting or not, that's just some direction. Then the lady said the Minister was busy until the end of February. Look, Madam Minister, I don't believe you're busy until the end of February, but I believe that a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of which party it comes from, if this is a particular matter, could get a deadline for you. I want to know: Why wasn't there a deadline? Or what's worse: Why there was no answer that the term could not be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I think I am the first minister to have invited all the coalition and opposition members – this is the first thing – to visit the Ministry and offer a cooperation hand. Second thing. On 17 January, yes, you wrote an e-mail and by 24 January, when the question was sent, it was exactly 7 days. I am the minister of all Slovenes and Slovenes, of all municipalities and in our country there are 212 municipalities and 90 members. If everyone wanted an immediate meeting, you probably imagine that I could only meet and do a little more. The door in our ministry is absolutely open and you too, when it comes your turn, with your mayor, will be given an appointment because I am happy to talk, but I am even happier if I can agree on a solution to the problem. Meeting for the meeting – I think we both agree that they are not the most productive. In the last week, if you monitored the media a little bit, you could see that there was a big project on the table, this is a project by Divaca-Koper, where we managed to make a dot with the investment programme, and, well, there really was no time. As I said, when you come in line for a few Members and a few Mayors, I will also be happy to take the time for problems from your local environment. However, I believe that you agree with me: not a coalition, an opposition, but some order I probably have to take into account. As I have already said, I think this was very much at the beginning of my mandate – a meeting with all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, leaders and deputies, and we have agreed on constructive cooperation. In such a spirit, I think I am also doing the work of a minister. How much time did the minister in his previous composition take for meetings, I don't know, but I think it's in the first place that we do what we set out to do. What I have just said is not rejecting the proposal for a meeting, you will get the deadline, but unfortunately I am really gone for a few days in February.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u370	I guess we didn't get along. I said there was no answer in seven, eight days. I would be quite pleased if the secretary — I do not know what the lady has — wrote that the Minister is currently a percentage or too busy when the term is available, we will let you know. But there's no answer! If someone writes to me from the Ministry, I answer. Specific good cooperation: last week I attended a meeting with the Minister of Agriculture. The lady has sent an e-mail to all Members, because she has been absent, unable to answer their questions, to invite us to the Ministry to discuss the topic on which we have asked the questions of Members. Today, we were with Mayor Čadez at Mr Zajc's meeting at the ILO on the Uranium Mine Žirovski vrh. In short, yes. I do not expect this to be tomorrow, I believe that not all 90 Members and 212 Mayors have written. Most importantly, the Minister – what I wrote – the money for the projects is provided only for operational matters, which means that this would not be a meeting due to a meeting, but a set of things. I can say that with your ministry, which has been so far – excellent cooperation. We also have excellent cooperation with Mr Topolk, Mr Wilenpart, Mr Kordin. All I can say is that it bothered me, and I told the secretary to just write me off, or I'll ask the oral question. [[…]] That I wonder what the problem is, that you don't even answer e-mails. You fix it, not that when people call the receptionist, the receptionist says the minister has a meeting. There's no telling what's going on on the fifth or sixth floor. He can't. I know that's a convenient excuse. This is how I count – and this is now my appeal – the email has since January 17th to at least answer me that when the deadline is available, you will get a deadline, but you can count then and then. Not just arrogantly rejecting it, but we'll answer when we do. At least answer me, and tell me there's no time right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u372	Actually, I don't even know what else to add. Mr Mahnic, once again; you are one of the 90 Members and your mayor is one of the 212 mayors and I welcome them. If that's enough for you to send you an e-mail to come in once in the future, we'll do it tomorrow morning. Our way is that when we can arrange a meeting, we organize it. But you probably don't expect to be the first, the only one we can solve things with. There really was a whole lot of work going on last week with the project that I told you earlier. And I am happy, regardless of whether we may have forgotten or missed this email of yours, that we have succeeded in such an important project as Divača-Koper to launch, that we have made a point, that we can be the contractor who has waited – I think, since December 2017, for the introduction of accessible roads – that this could be done. And I could count it. Again, the meeting will be organised when we also process several other Members and mayors who have expressed their desire for a meeting before you. Then I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u373	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Primož Siter will ask the Minister of the Interior Boštjan Poklukar and the Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u374	Thank you very much, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, respectable minister! For many years, the problem has been the politically incorrect and unhygienic attitude of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, when the official function is actively involved in the religious rituals of the Roman Catholic Church. The so-called Mass for the Motherland, for example, is a church ritual that refers to State holidays, thereby making the RC less the status of a state church. However, the representatives of the authorities and the public authorities, of course, give her this legitimacy by their participation. On 21 December, one such mass took place in the Ljubljana capital, attended by the President of the Council of State, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and so on and so on. At this mass, even a person in the uniform of the Slovenian Army took part in the service, read on the lamppost. On 21 June – a similar scenario, representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces Protocol Unit and a quintet of trumpets of the Slovenian Armed Forces Orchestra also participated in the religious ceremony, and the same political summit led by Borut Pahor, even by the President of the Republic. On the other hand, we have cases where representatives of the Roman Catholic Church are involved in state events, they are part of the State Protocol. December last year, for example, on the occasion of the Statehood Day at the National Assembly, and at the celebrations at the Cankar home and so on, where the protocol — very interesting — we do not see representatives of other religious communities. Then there is the political summit and the Vatican, regular meetings with the pope or the popes. Miro Cerar has already met him twice, including Mrs Alenka Bratušek and so on and so on. There seems to be one such common violation of the constitutional principle by the ruling policy. 7. Article 7 of the Constitution provides that the State and religious communities are separate and that religious communities are equal in the eyes of the State. Now, in this regard, I ask: In whose name are the representatives of the political summit attending church ceremonies? Who ordered the participation of members of the police and military in church worship? Under what key are representatives of religious communities included in the State Protocol, and why is the domination of the Roman Catholic Church evident when we have 57 religious communities? How does Slovenia implement the constitutional provision of separation between the church and the state? Why does the state not respect the Constitution of the ordered separation of the Church and the State? How does the State sanction such unconstitutional action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Minister, you have an answer. The time to answer is five minutes, both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u376	Thank you very much, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members! Dear Member, thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to make it very clear about the Slovenian Armed Forces. We strictly respect the constitutional decision on the separation of state and religious communities. Let me remind you that Article 22 of the Religious Freedom Act provides the legal basis for religious care in the military and also Article 52 of the Defence Act. Why am I saying this? Because these articles have also been constitutionally judged, in 2010, the Constitutional Court has very comprehensively defined these issues, which you have also raised. You asked on what basis the senior representatives and representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces could participate in religious ceremonies. I must say that this is the right that the Slovenian Armed Forces have as individuals to determine how to cooperate on the Slovenian Armed Forces' protocol tasks is the Directive on the performance of guard and protocol tasks. The Constitutional judgment or decision referred to by me also provides that the current system of respect for constitutional centres, in an appropriate manner, makes it possible to exercise religious freedom in the sense of spiritual care in the Slovenian Army, equivalent to that of all members of all registered religious communities. This means that there is no distinction here between the Catholic Church and other religious communities, if they are also properly registered. It is the military vicariate who is in charge of organizing and conducting religious rituals also regarding other religious confessions, and here usually invites the appropriate priests of the corresponding religion. Even when it comes to protocol events, such as public holidays, all representatives of these religious communities who are registered are invited to attend, so that there is no exception to being only invited representatives of one of the religious communities. As for the question you have raised, you have visited the Holy Office or the Vatican. It is necessary to know that it has State status and that it is a matter of state visits when the President of the Government, the President of the State or any other senior official such as the President of the National Assembly or the Minister for Foreign Affairs visits. We are convinced that the questions you have raised do not affect the issue of disrespect for the separation of the State and the religious communities. With regard to the police, I propose to the Minister [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Mr. Poklukar, will you be there? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Similarly, at the Ministry of the Interior or in the police in accordance with article 23 of the Law on Religious Freedom for Police and Police officers who wish to do so, the State shall provide religious and spiritual care in situations where the exercise of religious freedom is hampered. The Code on the Organisation and Method of Religious Care of the Police has also been adopted, and in particular the Slovenian police are involved in religious rituals when the conditions laid down in Article 85, paragraph 1, of the Police Organization and Work Act are laid down, when the police, in agreement with their relatives, perform funeral ceremonies for a policeman who has lost his life in carrying out an operational or other dangerous work, assuming that the funeral ceremony or burial of the deceased is also carried out at the will of the relatives. For the same purpose, the police participate in the main religious ceremony of the so-called Mass for Policemen, where police officers who lost their lives in their work are reminded of the dead and the pieté. In these forms of cooperation, the police cooperate with police officers in police uniforms. I have to say again that the rules in the Slovenian police or the Ministry of the Interior on these matters are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, that's all right. I am not talking about a lack of respect for personal freedom in choosing a religion or practice any religion. We are not talking about religious care, we are not talking about the religion of individual members of the Slovenian Army or anyone. We're talking protocol. We are talking about the integration of the Slovenian political summit and the military into the religious protocol and the integration of representatives of the Roman Catholic Church on the one hand into the State Protocol. Here we had a man standing on the stage reading a beret in the uniform of the Slovenian Army with the act of the Slovenian Army. This is at odds with the principle of the secularity of the state. That's not the only thing! I still have a whole list of things. Even in the National Assembly. On 8 January, the President of the National Assembly now accepted the calendars of the Mission Centre of Slovenia a few days ago, and then this Bethlehem Light, which was adopted by Borut Pahor, Vlasta Nussdorfer, Marjan Sarec, Branko Simonovič, Boštjan Poklukar, also at the Ministry of Environment and Space and so on. The president of the country visited the nursery museum and promised to build his own nursery in his presidential palace. And then we have here four years of prayer breakfasts in the National Assembly, which are nothing more than some exhibition of the Roman Catholic Church. Once again: Can the state provide secularity, which we all understand is driving civil progress and is clearly at serious risk in Slovenia at this point? Is the exaggeration of the foreign flag, the Vatican flag, in accordance with the legislation on church surfaces? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Mr. Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u382	Thank you very much for your questions. Unfortunately, as Minister of Defence, I am not competent to answer certain questions you have asked me about the President of the country, the President of Parliament. This is out of my hands. As Minister of Defence, I can only ensure that we strictly respect the rules of separation between the State and the religious communities in the Slovenian Army. However, if the Slovenian Army encounters religious communities, it does so on the basis of the Religious Freedom Act, Article 22, then we have Article 52 of the Defence Act and then we also have various rules and, of course, the vicariate takes care of these relations between the Slovenian Army and the individual religious community. I have made it very clear that this is not only a matter of cooperation with one religious community, but we are obliged by the Constitution to ensure appropriate cooperation with all the religious communities that are registered. As for the protocol itself and when we touch the Slovenian Army, I must say that there is no law or regulation prohibiting such protocol actions; even more. The constitutional decision I mentioned from 2010 shows that this is in the spirit of this constitutional decision. Perhaps I would agree that, at the legislative level, that as far as protocol obligations are concerned, perhaps all situations are not sufficiently specified. However, I believe that, as regards the activities of the Slovenian Armed Forces in this area, we are implementing them in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, which is also in some way confirmed by the 2010 Constitutional Decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to join us? Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u384	Thank you very much. The situation is very similar at the Ministry of the Interior, or in the police, with the responsibility of a police vicar, who is the coordinator of religious care. There's a police councilman on the job, a police vicar. This is a systematic job in the police department. The selection of vicar is carried out by the Slovenian Bulgarian Conference and the police vicar performs various tasks, including the care of religious spiritual care in the Slovenian police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to propose a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to hold a debate at the next meeting. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u386	Thank you very much. Once again, we are not talking about spiritual care, or – God forbid – if we remain in terminology, we are denying individuals the right to freedom of religion. However, I have listed some examples of violations of the Constitution, of clear, and of legislation in favour of a privileged group of people, one privileged religious institution. Slovenia is and must remain a secular state. I now lay on my soul and call for such immediate and consistent respect for the Constitution and the legislation. No one doubts the subterranean power – political and economic power – of the Roman Catholic Church in our country or anywhere, but it is the separation of the state and the church that keeps society going. I believe that the Slovenian political summit has so many backbones that it will understand and live. Of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I call for a broader debate in the National Assembly on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 29 January 2019, in the framework of the votes. Zeljko Cigler has the word to ask the Minister of Health Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u388	Dear Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues once again a good evening! According to the latest data published in 2018, 14,000 329 people were infected with cancer in Slovenia in 2015 and 6 thousand 216 people died in cancer in the same year. In short, the number of patients is increasing each year. It is estimated that in 2018 more than 15,000 people in Slovenia contracted cancer. In general, the grave incidence and mortality rate are likely to increase. Epidemiological indicators show that cancer in Slovenia is a major public health burden and that it is among the causes of death in the first place in men and in the second in women. The profession among cancer risk factors most often mentions the fact that these are the consequences of poor living habits. All the damage and weight of the disease is thus tried to impose on an individual who is living inappropriately, with severe disregard for environmental factors as a factor of serious risk, which is the effect of air, water, and earth pollution. These facts, regardless of what we are saying here or any current minister or past government, are being warned by the public media every day with concrete victims and warnings about where this is happening. Dear Mr. Minister: How does the Ministry of Health respond to the fact that the number of cancer patients and the number of cancer deaths continues to increase every year? How will you take into account the risk of external environmental factors such as air pollution, land, water and, as a consequence, food with different carcinogenic substances when evaluating health data and planning measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u390	As you correctly determined, 6,000 deaths. This means about 25% of all deaths in Slovenia – 18,000, 20,000 Slovenians die annually. You have also found that cancer is a multifactorial cause, and one of these, of course, is the way of life we have. If you take a closer look at the age of this direction, it is strong over 75, the vast majority, and in the vast majority we find one cause in the background, which has dragged 20, 30, 40 years. So what happened will end when we stop polluting the earth, the air, the environment, and things like that. Environmental measures will only be seen in the next 30, 40 years, not before. Because now they have cancers because of these causes that were in an polluted environment years ago. I was alone from Zasavje, which was very severely contaminated, and I followed it closely. In order not to repeat this, of course, Slovenia, apart from environmental legislation – for the health sector – has introduced a single cancer register, which is 50 years old, so that we monitor what is happening in the cancer field and in what environment. On that basis, we said what we could prevent. We have very good results in breast cancer, recently breast cancer, and right now we are already in the fourth cycle of screening cancer on the colon and the effects are immediately showing because cancer is found in very early stages. However, it will take another 10, 15 years to reduce mortality in order to be able to talk about the success or failure of these programmes. Nevertheless, let me say, to take cancer out, and to ignore the fact that, until ten years ago, we were mostly dying from cerebrovascular diseases, which we now successfully tame – this programme also lasted 20 years: cholesterol, pressure as two main elements for a heart attack or stroke, then it takes 20 years to know something. We have a health promotion programme in the workplace, promotion of health, public health care and similar things, so to speak, all public health policies are aimed at reducing the impact of the environment. Now I'm going to reopen one topic. Increasing excise duties on unhealthy lifestyles would also help to reduce access to alcohol, cigarettes, sweet and fatty things, this is one measure, and on the other hand we could take screening tests, because now all other cancers are so smallly coincidental that screening tests are extremely expensive, so that we do not decide on certain rare types of cancer. More. But it is true that there are genetics on the march that will be able to determine what types of cancer will be affected. This is again in the story of how much to invest in Slovenian health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u392	Thank you very much. Respect for Slovenian health care is a successful treatment, including preventive programs mentioned earlier by DORA, ZORA or SVIT, but you said something else – everything is beautiful and well, but I said the number of cancer patients and the number of deaths after cancer in Slovenia is increasing despite these successes. There are very high warnings that the spread of this disease is affected by the risk of cancer by environmental pollution. I'm asking you this: Why did the Ministry of Health not inform you of the information that I had previously told you that in Slovenia we had informed the public about the death of cancer and did not give an official position on Eurostat's published data, after which Slovenia was first placed after the death rate of cancer? Such information would also affect the activities of the political factors of this Parliament and the ministers sitting in this government, especially Mr Lebn and the President of the Government, to take concrete action in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u393	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u394	Yeah, I'm an insider, and I think the data in the daily paper is summarized. They were probably also on the Ministry of Health's website. However, for all those who want to know more about this, there is a brochure Health statistics collected by the OECD and are accessible to anyone every day. But it is possible, I agree that the emphasis and debate on what to do and how to do is too little. True, pollution goes with industry and with our level and standard of living, which we may sometimes neglect at the expense of health.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u396	Your Honor! The answers given by the Minister fully understand him, but I suggest that the debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be held, if voted, at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 29 January 2019, in the framework of the votes. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, who will ask the Minister of the Environment and Space of Juret Lebnu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u398	Dear Minister! In January, you showed determination in the case of the replacement action of the state of removal of the sunken vessels in the canal of Jerney and also showed what must be done when others move. We know how long the sunken and abandoned vessels destroyed the image of this channel. Now it's the end of January, so I want to know: Have your expectations for removal been met? At the same time, I would like to point out one more thing in this light. I feel that in Slovenia we do not know the causes of unauthorised interventions in space properly and effectively to sanction them. Many decision makers do not voluntarily execute, so the State must act; some even go bankrupt. That's why I want to know: Is there an estimate of the cost of the State's replacement action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u399	Thank you very much. We're coming to the last debate. Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u400	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister of Infrastructure! I ask you how work and activities are being carried out to continue the construction of the main road G1-2 Hajdin–Ormož. We have been working on this road connection for more than 20 years. Yeah, you heard right, for over 20 years! A partial single permit for the first section of this road Ormož-Gorišnica, which is a road with fast road elements, was issued on 22 February 2007. Construction works have already started twice at this first section and have both ended up bankrupting construction companies. First it was Vegrad and then it was Primorje. The investor on that road is Dars. Due to the construction of this road, which should have been completed in 2013, the reconstruction of the Prague–Hodoš railway in the town of Mihovci, which is on the current main road Ormož–Ptuj, did not result in an out-of-state crossing, which is now contrary to legislation. Last year, a call was made for the completion of the construction of the bridge building of Viaduct Sejanec and the construction began again last autumn. The entire road link Ormož-Hajdin is a long circus 22 kilometers long and is divided into three sections. For the first section of Ormož-Gorišnica a building permit was issued in 2007, which is still in force. For the second part of Gorišnica-Markovci, the building permit is to be in the production phase. More than five houses in the area were demolished and families moved over 10 years ago. The third section of Markovci-Hajdin still needs to be placed in the space. Here only one of the southern variants around Ptuj is acceptable for all inhabitants of Ptuj and the surrounding areas. Meetings at the Markovci Congregation are held each month on this subject. My questions are: How are construction works going on the Sejanec viaduct? When will it be finished? When will the call for construction of the first section of Ormož-Gorišnica? He was promised to us for the end of 2018. When will the building permit for the second part be obtained, this is Gorišnica-Markovci? How are the activities on the placement of the third part, Markovci-Ptuj? Are funds available for the first section of this road link in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u402	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, also honourable Members. We've done quite a few road sections today, and we're going to end up with these road sections. It is logical, however, that it is of great interest because we all come from a local environment and the roads are laid down or always run in the local environment, otherwise we cannot. Let me begin by saying that you have been talking about the last twenty years, that it is true that during the crisis the road infrastructure was really too neglected, and in the last two years of the previous government's mandate the infrastructure, both road and rail infrastructure, has increased. Even in this year's rebalancing, it is envisaged that the level will remain the same as it is; we are said to be able to continue with the accelerated dynamics of the reconstruction and construction of roads and railways, which we can all enjoy together. But as far as your specific questions are concerned, my answers, I hope, will be concrete enough. First of all: the work on the Sejanec viaduct is carried out in accordance with the deadline plan and Dars estimates that it will be completed within ten months, as foreseen by the signed contract, until 20 July 2019. As far as the road Markovci-Gorišnica is concerned. The call was actually promised for the end of 2018, but Dars is 30. 11. 2018 received a decision from the Ministry of Environment and Space or the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment to carry out an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus for the section of Markovci-Gorišnica Main Road. This will certainly slow down the acquisition of a building permit in this section. With Markovci-Gorišnica and Gorišnica-Ommož sections to complete the whole, Dars will issue an invitation to tender for both sections at the same time. The section Gorišnica – Ormoz cannot be linked to the existing network in the way envisaged in Markovci. As I have already mentioned, Darsa's information indicates that the acquisition of a building permit will certainly be extended due to environmental impact assessments and environmental consensus-building. How hard to say, however, I believe that Minister Leben, who has been Minister for several months, will be able to speed things up here because before that he was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and knows the problem. This is how I want things to start at the Ministry of Environment related to infrastructure projects to go faster than they have done so far. As far as part three is concerned, this is Markovci-Ptuj. At this point, Dars is obtaining offers for the manufacturer to supplement the variant study and environmental report. Both tenders were published in mid-December 2018 and the deadline for the submission of tenders expires at the end of this month. According to the legal capacity of the contractor, the preparation of the study of variants and the environmental report shall be initiated. Due to the involvement of the problem, the public or interested groups will be involved in the process several times. It is precisely because of the very sensitive area of placement in the premises of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of the Environment and Space that you are particularly involved in, and we are also informing the local communities at regular coordination in the Municipality of Markovci, as I have already mentioned. With regard to the last question – in view of all the procedures described by the investor this year, Darsa's information suggests that the call for the construction of both sections – is expected to be published at the same time in 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u403	Thank you very much. You have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, I really would like to ask you whether I am appealing or, please, how can I say that the invitation be issued for the first section separately? Construction began twice, and there was always an invitation to tender or construction for this first section. Here is the construction permit, and this section from Ormož to Gorišnica is the longest, 10 kilometers long. I believe that this is where construction can begin and these things can be solved in parallel, that is. As far as it is known, this environmental impact assessment, environmental consensus, will indeed be one year before this is achieved, and those 10 kilometers, as is the long route, from Ormož to Gorišnica, which is subject to the building permit and we have been promised that by the end of last year the invitation to tender will go out so that the works will continue continuously, because in July, as you yourself said, this viaduct, the first construction phase, that construction machines can also be built over the vehicle so that the routes can work. So I ask you kindly, you yourself said, and also in your previous reply, you mentioned that you have coordination with Mr Lebna on Thursday. Mr Leben, as you yourself said, was formerly the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, and he has helped us with the fact that we have even awakened this project after many years, and I know that he knows all the details. I really ask you both not to stop construction, because in July 2019, this July, the viaduct will end and then it will all be stopped again. I'm afraid we won't be able to stop, not our people, who want to make a roadblock on this problematic crossing of the railway and road. At that time, it was signed by the municipality and the public that this underpass should not be in Mihovci, if this road would then become the main road, now that the construction of this viaduct had begun, but I fear that if all of this happened in July then it would stop that it was wrong. After 20 years, it's not right for you and me. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u406	Thank you. I will give you the word that Dars and I will re-check what we can do, because, as I said, their argument is that this cannot be done separately, because that section cannot then be connected to the existing network as it should be. Let's start somewhere and not know where we're going to go, without having permission for the first or whatever you say, part two, but I just don't hope to promise myself. As it is said, I will again check with Dars to see if there is a possibility that for a part that already has a building permit, it will start to be done earlier — without promise, it is a promise to check. And yes, even so, once again, we appeal to the Minister for the Environment to make this assessment as soon as possible. But it is not the only project from your end, where we have problems – or whatever we say – with this environmental assessment. We also have an important project on railway infrastructure, where we have found, in fact, almost afterwards, that, with a smaller change, they want to re-evaluate the environment. I believe the Minister and I will find a common language and we will be able to do it as soon as possible. But as for Darce's answer, I pledge to provide you with an answer in writing. Once again, because I'm not a man who makes empty promises, I can't promise you that we can move forward with that work that has a building permit. The promise is, I'll do my best and check with Dars to see if that possibility exists. And if there is, I absolutely support moving forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-28-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u407	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the list of questions that have been submitted. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 29 January 2019, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I'm also adjourning the fourth session of the National Assembly, which I'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
