ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 20, paragraph 2, Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Janez Janša, only Bevk from 15:00 on, Iva Dimic, Jernej Vrtovec, Joseph Horvat from 16:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin from 16:00 on, Tadej Shuštar from 16:00 on, mag. Dejan Kaloh, Dr. Franc Runk from 2.30 p.m. on, mag. Branislav Rajić until 8:30 p.m., Victory of Jelinčič noble, Anja Bah Žibert, Eva Irgl and Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec from 15:00 p.m. Representatives of the Government are also invited to the meeting. I welcome all those present once again kindly! Dear Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on 8 October 2019 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for enlargement, so I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Dear Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMENDATION RELATING TO THE OPINION OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS, THAT THE GOVERNMENT, IN ACCORDANCE TO THE STATE MINISTRY, WAS NOT SUCCESSFUL TO THE ASSISTANCE AND EMPLOYMENT OF SOCIAL PROTECTION SERVICES AND THAT THE PROJECTS TO BE SHOWED, ARE PROVIDED TO SURVEILLANCE THE RESOURCES WITH REGARD TO THE LONG-TERM DISTRIBUTIONS REFERRED TO, The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec. With regard to this proposal, the group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel asked the culprits to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal for a recommendation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Carmen Furman. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear fellows and fellows, distinguished guests! The state of welfare in our country is critical. This shows the findings of the month of September of the Court of Auditors’ published audit report. The fact is that the Slovenian population is growing up very quickly. Today, every fifth person in Slovenia is over 65 years old and thus the potential user of social protection services. With the dynamics we have, in 2030 the proportion of people over 65 years of age will be one quarter of the Slovenian population, and by 2050 every third person in Slovenia will be over 65. We will become the fifth country with the oldest population in the world. In view of the social welfare system we currently have, we are not prepared to do so at all. How ineffective our state apparatus is at this point in time, the Court of Auditors' statement shows that our country has no information at all in the last ten years on how many those who need help do not receive it, nor do they need any form of assistance. In view of the multi-annual warning given by the various institutions, the Court's audit is just proof that the social protection system in our country is not working at all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we therefore want clear answers from the Government and the competent ministries to the questions: What measures have you taken, if any, in the last 10 years to improve the situation of Slovenian adults? What measures have you taken to ensure that social protection services are more easily and more accessible to all those in need? I want an answer: Why has the government not regulated a system of long - term care, despite years of promise? Why did the competent ministries for various studies and projects to test the new law, which has not yet been submitted by the Government to the public to date, devote as much as EUR 74 and a half million? It is the Court of Auditors’ finding on the purpose of spending public taxpayers’ money and it is therefore appropriate to inform our citizens of their intentional and prudent consumption and to initiate appropriate procedures against those responsible for determining their liability for damages and criminal offences, if necessary. The Court's audit reports that today there is total chaos in the area of the social services system. The existing system doesn't work in any way. Despite increasing demand for vacancies in nursing homes, the Government is solving the lack of available capacity by granting concessions, with concessionaires on average costing about 28% more than services in public homes. Since 2007, the country has not built a single public home for the elderly. Homes have therefore been busy for years, and the search for an empty bed has become virtually impossible. The Community data of social institutions is shared that on 19 September 2019 there were 11 000 446 applications for admission to homes for older people. Even at this point in time, no single bed is available throughout the country. In fact, all homes for older people in Slovenia have a total of two, 100 % employment and a waiting period of at least 3 months. In what distress do the elderly and their relatives find themselves no longer able to care for themselves and need constant care, and for them no home can be found, we do not know, and we cannot imagine. During the revision period, the number of applications for admission to homes has been increasing steadily, but the Government has been earmarking only symbolic amounts in successive years in the state budget for the construction of homes. Also in the 2020 budget, only €5 million. The latter is enough for about three quarters of the average Slovenian home for the elderly. And instead of the government investing money in building the necessary homes and other forms of social protection for which demand actually exists, the government is devoting millions to expensive and completely useless studies that are without content and objectives to be achieved with them. With money for studies and pilot projects, we could build up up to 10 homes for the elderly. The fact is that the existing social care system is collapsing in front of our eyes, but the competent ministries are not responding to the current needs and even less expected needs for our citizens' care. Although demand for home care is at least 3 times higher compared to the community among the elderly, the Government has decided to promote community care, mainly in the form of home aid, but has placed the financial burden on the municipalities to implement this form of assistance. Poor human resources policy, unfair pricing and unequal treatment of users also make the existing system of home or institutional care, which is still the most common form of social protection, almost insurmountable. Although the tenants are high, the salaries of the employees, especially given the nature of their work, are quite modest. Due to the underpaid and overloaded suppliers, home users do not receive adequate social care, sometimes even basic care. For many years now, unfortunately unsuccessfully, the Ombudsman has also warned of this fact. In individual cases, even human rights have been violated and the dignity of the people in their homes undermined, but progress has not been made by the Ministry to adapt to the current situation and to the needs of the residents. What is the real human resources supply of suppliers, it speaks eloquently of the calculation of the court on which one supplier in an eight-hour workshop has to provide 51 residents. Despite warnings from the social inspectorate in 2014, 2015 and 2016, the standards for the type of care are not yet clearly set, and the current regulation thus results in unequal treatment between users of institutional care, since users may be classified as different categories of care regardless of the same needs and receive a different range of services. The standards that would have eliminated such anomalies have already been developed in the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia years ago, but have not yet been made public at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to date. In the framework of the existing household supply pricing system, the audit reinforces the knowledge that the current pricing system set by the Ministry is unfair. According to the system we have, users also pay costs which do not relate to their category of supply and standard of residence. In addition, home care is constantly auctioned, especially at the expense of the low prices of health services which, by law, should be paid by a health insurance undertaking, not or at least not at a sufficient level. Thus, since 2017 health insurance payments have not been sufficient to cover the salaries of healthcare workers. In the end, of course, these costs burden the suppliers and their relatives unjustifiably. It is more than obvious, therefore, that the welfare system in our country does not work. These are also the findings of the Court of Auditors’ audit. The country left the elderly and their relatives to themselves and their financial capabilities. The pressures of elderly people who need help are therefore increasing from year to year. In the ten years covered by the audit, the Government and the competent ministries have not taken any measures to improve the situation and the availability of social care services to those in need. No action has been taken to address the shortcomings that have been known and identified for years in the Court of Auditors' first audit, which have been alerted for years by the Ombudsman, the Community of Social Institutions and the Social Inspection. However, EUR 74 and a half million have been earmarked for the Ministry to prepare studies and carry out projects that do not solve existing problems in the area of social care at all. We have established a Directorate for long-term care with twelve employees, but the ministries are spending public money on expensive studies that, according to the Court of Auditors, will not even help to make social services more accessible and accessible to those who need them. However, in order to establish an effective system of social protection, expensive studies that benefit only individuals do not need at all. We need concrete solutions, the adoption of a system law, in response to existing needs that will benefit our elderly. The Ministry of Health's timetable for the adoption of the Long-Term Care Act, which will regulate this area systematically, is clear and known. Unfortunately, he is also deeply late under the current government. While we were assured on yesterday's committee that the State Secretary in health would also be adopted in the coming year, the figures in the budget show otherwise. However, when the budgets were presented for the next two years, the President of the Government said, among other things, that numbers should be spoken. And so in the coming year, the government allocated $5 million to us in the budget for investments in kindergartens, $5 million for investments in nursing homes, $4 million for home aid services, $74.5 million for studies and projects that will not solve anything. Your Honor! Yesterday's vote on the proposed recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Home Committee gives a clear signal to the Government that it is nevertheless necessary to take account of the Court of Auditors' findings. We recommend that we identify who is responsible for the delay in all the projects envisaged, who is responsible for the recklessly projected spending of 74.5 million public money and what are the objectives of the use of these funds. Let the numbers speak today and, above all, let your mind guide you in making decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Member, for your complementary explanation. The competent parent body shall be the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. I give the floor to Mr Vojko Starovic, Chairman of the Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At its 30th emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the recommendation in question, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Daniel Krivec. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representatives of the Ministry of Health, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, the former Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the former Minister of Health and the representative of the Community of Social Institutions and the Institute for Social Labour participated in the work of the Committee. The proposal for a recommendation was accompanied by amendments from the SDS Group and the Left Group, which were adopted by the Committee, with the exception of the amendment of the Levica Group for a new fourth point of the recommendation. On behalf of the applicant, the additional explanation was submitted by mag. Carmen Furman. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly postponed the opinion and proposed a minor correction with regard to the amendment to point 1. All the invited ministers, both former ministers of the competent ministries and representatives of the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, entered the floor and presented their views on the subject under consideration. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities said that they are aware of the challenges and problems posed by the more than a 10-year period of under-acting. The Court of Auditors' audit, as well as its responses from the field, obliges them to act in the field of care for the elderly. She pointed out that it was wrong to state that the Government had allocated up to €74.5 million for projects that would only show whether the envisaged solutions for long-term care were appropriate or not. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health also provided some clarifications in relation to the Court of Auditors’ opinion. Notwithstanding the Court of Auditors' opinion, we cannot claim that in Slovenia the right or service in the area of long-term care is not guaranteed, since it is provided in the form of monetary benefits, social security services at home and in part in the form of health care services in institutions and at home. In the long debate, the discussers welcomed the substantive debate on this issue. It was pointed out that, due to a lack of clarity in the public, 74 million has not been spent on research, as was understood in the Court of Auditors' audit report, but is only about earmarked funds from European resources for specific projects that have not yet been used. The debaters felt that we urgently needed a quality public network at home for older citizens to take care of them. The question was raised as to what is the use of European funds. We have a new European perspective ahead of us, where we can negotiate for purposeful consumption. It was also pointed out that there were studies in the past. Both former ministers have pointed out that the proposal for a long-term care law has been practically prepared and therefore do not understand why new and new working groups should be reassembled. We are aware that we are an ageing society and the problems are the fact that we are facing all the developed countries. It was pointed out that the system of care for the elderly and assistance needed to be upgraded and improved, which can be effectively ensured by the creation of a new pillar of social security in the form of long-term care. The Committee voted on the points of the proposal for a recommendation and adopted them. Prepared text of the updated proposal for a recommendation incorporating the amendments adopted. The updated proposal for a recommendation is legally regulated and the new points adopted are therefore duly renumbered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you have raised your hand for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u6	Nice greetings to all present! Certainly the chairman, with all due respect, that there's some work to be done back here. [[sound of working machines in the background – renovation of small hall]] . Unfortunately, these vibrations and these flexes make it difficult for us to hear what they say. So I'm asking you to ensure some normal state of mind so we can listen. Thank you very much. It bothers me personally, but if it doesn't, it's another problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u7	Allow, honourable Members, the proposal is, of course, justified. Do you want me to order a 15-minute break to notify the services that are restoring the small hall to stop the noise, or do you allow us to continue and notify them at the same time? Thanks for the initiative. We will immediately inform the workers in the small hall that [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] We're already reading your thoughts. Thank you very much. We are continuing today's extraordinary session. You have 15 minutes of government representatives at your disposal. There's more than one of you written. Who wants to talk? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u8	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We are aware of the challenges and problems that have arisen due to the more than a 10-year period of under-acting of the country. The Court of Auditors’ audit from 1 January 2007 to 30 June 2018, as well as the responses from the field, obliges us to act in the field of care for the elderly. The report contains a series of findings, the common feature of which is that the Government did not give due attention to this area. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we have taken immediate action to improve the situation and we are already doing the right thing. Thus, in line with the requirements of the audit report, we have already appointed working groups which, as the Court of Auditors requires, will examine the appropriateness of the existing legal regime and prepare guidelines for further action, all with a view to improving the existing situation in the field. We are also working with the Ministry of Health to prepare a proposal for a long-term care law that, according to the Ministry, remains among the priorities. At the same time, the Ministry is coordinating on the additional capacities that we need to provide in the homes for the elderly. The Court of Auditors ordered the Ministry of Labour to submit a response report within 90 days with a statement of corrective measures. Of course, anything that hasn't been done in more than ten years can't be arranged overnight, but we are committed to preparing solutions to the existing problems and challenges of long-lived society. As we mentioned in several discussions held this week in the National Assembly, there are different and places of misinterpretation and of building new capacities in nursing homes. We therefore stress that the resources provided by the current operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 are intended to develop Community forms of services, to build different accommodation units for the implementation of deinstitutionalisation and to modernise mobile units to support programmes aimed at people in need of long-term assistance and care, and not for institutionalisation processes in the context of long-term care, although this does not mean that we do not need additional capacity in this area in view of the needs. However, - and we are committed to - it is necessary to prepare a set of complementary measures in the area of long-term care. If we stress measures to strengthen community services, it is in the area of transition from institutional services to community services this year that we are preparing important developments, which we will also financially support in the future. This is how we work with local communities, nursing homes, the Ministry of Health to implement measures as soon as possible. It is also worth pointing out at this point that the Government has earmarked a total of EUR 74,5 million for projects that are intended to demonstrate whether long-term supply solutions are appropriate or not. I would like to point out that the funds have not yet been spent. We also stress that the projects listed in the Court of Auditors’ audit report are intended not only to test the appropriateness of solutions in the area of long-term care, but in particular to provide services to users and the conditions for the implementation of only those, which is a major investment in infrastructure. This is how I would like to highlight the projects already under way. Project of the transformation of the special socio-security home of the Institute of Kras and the Centre for Training, Work and Protection of Montenegro in Koroškem. Within the framework of the projects, we will finance the planning and implementation of organisational changes and the introduction of a new way of working in these institutions. Together, an additional 140 new cities will be provided for this purpose. This year and next year, with the assistance of co-financing of the Ministry of Labour, 80 additional jobs will be provided in existing homes for the elderly, in particular for persons with dementia. Also, in the coming years, more than 600 additional beds will be provided in homes on the basis of an invitation to tender for the award of concessions. Finally, we are also planning a project to co-finance the infrastructure of community services, by which we want to provide improved services for older people and their families. The aim is to have an older choice and to create conditions so that they can stay as long as possible in the home environment. We are therefore preparing a measure to provide additional capacity for the day care of the elderly and for their temporary accommodation. The project thus provides for the provision of 30 additional units. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is working in the framework of the preparation of programming documents to provide additional means for investing in different forms of care, for the establishment and modernisation of social infrastructure in the area of dementia in the future programming period 2021-2027. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that the system of care for the elderly and assistance needed must be upgraded and improved, which can only be effectively ensured by the creation of a new pillar of social security in the form of long-term care. Nevertheless, it is our task to prepare everything necessary to improve the existing system as soon as possible. We believe that the current system will be improved by thoroughly reviewing and making improvements with the help of other stakeholders involved in the social protection system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr State Secretary from the Ministry of Health has also applied. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u10	Dear Members, Members and all the participants, welcome to today's 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, also by our Ministry of Health! In relation to the Court of Auditors’ opinion that the Government or the competent ministries were not successful in ensuring the accessibility and availability of social protection services and that they did not ensure equal treatment of beneficiaries and that planning for a new long-term care system was not appropriate, the Ministry of Health provides the following explanation. Slovenia is one of the fastest growing societies. Today, 19.7% of people over 65 are in Slovenia. Projections for 2050 predict that the proportion of population over 65 years of age will increase to 30%, with the proportion of population over 80 years of age from 5% in 2016 to 2050 increasing to 11.4%. The most common users of social services, health services and services that fall within the long-term care segment are those over 80 years of age. The social responsibility of this group in recent decades has been reflected in the fact that in Slovenia we have several rules governing the area of care for this population. Law on Health and Welfare, Law on Social Protection, Law on Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, if I only list some. Since we do not have a uniform system of long-term care in Slovenia, we face fragmentation and inequality in access to services, which also fall within the long-term supply area. We have much more developed institutional care than community care. There is no way to argue that in Slovenia the elderly need help is not taken care of, as rights are guaranteed both in the form of monetary benefits and in the form of direct services. We need a new system in the area of long-term care, which will represent a new pillar of social security and allow access to integrated services, i.e. services that are intertwined with health and social care and respond to the needs of beneficiaries in the environment where services are intended to be used. It is crucial to plan future solutions to respond to the needs of citizens, to be accessible and accessible, and to enable citizens who are no longer able to take care of themselves to have a choice between different forms of services and rights that will be more financed from public resources. The Ministry of Health in the existing regulation is not responsible for the planning or provision of social protection services, nor for the public network of providers of institutional and community social protection services. However, social institutions in the public network, including nursing homes, can carry out health care and rehabilitation under the Health Act for their caregivers as part of basic health activities, in this part our ministry is responsible. The public network of operators shall include both public establishments and concessionaires providing health services to older persons under the same conditions and subject to the same control measures for the exercise of health activities. The difference in home prices for older people is the difference in the price of services and social care. The Ministry of Health is very well aware of the role and importance played by social institutions in particular in nursing homes in the healthcare system, social protection and future long-term care. As previously mentioned, the fragmentation of the current regulation in the area of the rights of persons who cannot take care of themselves alone is called for the growth of public and private resources in the area of long-term care and the range of unmet needs after the adoption of the new system law on long-term care. The Ministry of Health, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 14. 12. 2016 took over the drafting tasks of the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act. A single system arrangement has been in preparation for a decade. This period has given us a lot of basis, recommendations, proposals of different ways, possibilities for regulation. All these bases, including the input of all the ministries and other stakeholders, are taken into account in the preparation of the proposal for a system solution. The also prepared proposals for systemic solutions in the area of long-term care are based on very concrete data and guidance. If I only list some: existing national and international data, research on unmet needs, expected demographic trends, identified inequalities and so on. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with other departments, continues the necessary activities to prepare the bill with the aim of following up on the commitments of the coalition agreement. The proposals for systemic solutions in the area of long-term care go in the direction of links and upgrading existing arrangements, as we have a lot of good in Slovenia. We are also moving towards following the international definition of long-term care as defined by the international definition of the health account system, defined as a set of services or rights needed by persons who, due to illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period, depend on the assistance of others in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks. If I may point out only some of the key proposals of the new system regime, I would stress in particular: the establishment of a single entry point, the introduction of a single assessment scale, the provision of a range of services, support to non-formal care providers, efficient operators' networks, effective public oversight, and the provision of a higher share of public funds. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with other departments, continues the necessary activities to prepare the bill with the aim of following up on the commitments of the coalition agreement. In accordance with the 2019 regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, April 2020 is set as the deadline for the adoption of the long-term supply law. Financial implications have been calculated for the proposed solutions in the area of long-term care, and the fact is that the final assessment of the financial implications of the bill and the specific funding method will only be known after final inter-ministerial harmonisation. In the integrated budget, the area of long-term care does not have its own budget line. The establishment of a new pillar of social security for long-term care is a new measure that has not yet been taken into account in budgetary documents. Its funding will have to be regulated in accordance with the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is definitely a long-term supply, and taking into account the fiscal rule. In preparing proposals for systemic solutions in the area of long-term care, the Ministry of Health has already taken into account the opinions and recommendations of the Court of Auditors, as well as the preliminary findings of pilot projects coordinated by the Ministry of Health in the area of long-term care. To conclude, we would like to explain further the Court of Auditors' opinion that, for projects that would simply show whether long-term supply solutions are appropriate or not, a total of €74.5 million has been allocated. This is, according to the Court of Auditors, a disproportionate cost compared to the necessary resources to ensure the lack of capacity. The Ministry of Health also carried out certain projects co-financed by the European Cohesion Policy and the Operational Programme for the period 2014-2020 from the Ministry of Labour with the said decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Health has taken over projects totalling EUR 20 million and EUR 676 thousand. At the end of 2017, there was a change in the operational programme and the Ministry of Health, in line with the recommendations of the Council of the European Union, that Slovenia should strengthen the Community forms of services and allow the transition from institutional forms to community forms, received an additional EUR 3 million. The Joint Ministry of Health has EUR 23 million 667 thousand 900 for project activities. First, in 2017, the long-term care model project was launched in a community of 4 million €403 000. The project will be implemented by the end of 2022. The implementation of pilot projects supporting the transition to the implementation of the long-term supply law has been ongoing since 2018 and the call for tender has been published in April 2018 and the provision of services will continue until the end of June 2020. The total value of the project is EUR 6 million 100,000. Project adaptation and transformation of existing institutional protection networks and entry of new providers for the provision of services communities and programmes for older persons, the launch of field activities in 2020. The call for a project for which €13 million is earmarked for €173,000 900 was launched in June 2019 and the funds have not yet begun to draw. Each project has clearly defined monitoring indicators in the call for proposals, and its implementation is subject not only to the control of project operators themselves, the control of ministries, and ultimately also to the control of the public, but also to the control of the Government of the Republic for Development and Cohesion Policy, the European Commission’s Budget Supervisory Office, if we list only the key ones. Finally, the Ministry of Health has not allocated the project resources for long-term care studies during the revised period. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he's got the word "magic." Marko Koprivc, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished other representatives of the Government or ministries, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! In Slovenia we have been talking about the regulation of long-term care for more than 15 years. Certainly too long, since only one of the fastest growing societies in Europe. This is not only a rapid increase in the proportion of the population over the age of 65 but also a strong increase in the population of those aged 80 and over. The proportion of the elderly is 5.1%, while in 2060 it will already be 12.3% of the population in the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, Slovenia is one of those European countries which have the least regulated system of long-term care and which allocate the smallest share of money for the long-term care of older citizens. Social Democrats have been aware of this problem and have been reminded of it for more than 10 years, and we are always aware that the real political will to take a joint decision on the regulation of the long-term care system, where we would also take care of sufficient financial resources, is often lacking. Finally, we drew attention to the problem in April this year, when the Chairman of the party is mag. In fact, he presented to the Government and coalition partners a request for an immediate approach to the establishment of new social security for assistance and care at an age that would be integrated into the existing social and health insurance system, based on the principle of intergenerational solidarity. The provision of additional common funds is a prerequisite for the proper regulation of the long-term care system. We have also presented a similar initiative in the current negotiations on the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Social Democrats believe that the key problem is that a large number of parties in this assembly do not want to recognise that long-term care for the elderly will not be adequately managed without an additional financial resource in the form of solidarity insurance. We are aware that the situation in the care of older citizens is rapidly deteriorating, that there is a shortage of vacancies in pension homes, that home aid varies across municipalities, which is bad, that there is a lack of money for urgent investment and services, and that in order to fully regulate the care of older citizens, there is a need for estimates of some 250 million euros. Respected and respected! Instead of discussing solutions today, and in particular finding the answer to the question of how to provide enough money for a comprehensive arrangement of long-term care, we will certainly listen today to discussions by the opposition based on false data, misleading interpretations of individual facts and populists. Such discussions by individual, particularly right-wing opposition parties, are already well-known and already established practice of their operation. Their aim is not to contribute to the search for a common solution to the problem of long-term care, but to blacken political competition as much as possible and to foster general dissatisfaction among people. Respected and respected! How can it be that, out of the €70,000 worth of research needed by the State to identify the actual needs for long-term care services, a story can be developed on the EUR 74 million that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is expected to spend, as the media associated with one of the opposition parties claims. The amount of EUR 74 million has been summarised according to the table in the Court of Auditors’ audit, which identifies on the 95th page projects aimed at developing a long-term community care service such as home aid, intergenerational centres, family and living centres, new information and telecommunications services, and helping to ensure the mobility of the elderly. In this regard, it is particularly important to stress that the European funds envisaged under the European Funding Programme are under way by the end of 2022. Most of the funds have not been spent at all and it is not necessary for them to be used if the Government fails to draw on the European Cohesion Funds. Following assurances from both ministries yesterday on the Committee, it was ensured that these funds would be spent in the coming years. Therefore, to state that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities at the time of the ministry, Dr Anja Kopač spent 74 million euros on studies, is a lie. Such funds are foreseen for the development of community care for home and only €70,000 for one study was spent on long-term supply analyses. Well, the fact that this information is not true has also indirectly been said by the Court of Auditors' representative yesterday on the committee when he said that incorrect quoting of reports cannot be taken over by the Court of Auditors. It is also not true that money is not traceable because the study, a study of 70,000 euros, was carried out by the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia set up by the State. One of the objectives of the project was to create an online application for the care of the elderly by municipalities in Slovenia, which can be found on the Institute’s website. It is also not possible to agree with the Court of Auditors' findings that the amount of EUR 74 million is disproportionate to the cost of projects which are intended only to show whether solutions to long-term care are appropriate compared to the necessary resources to ensure a lack of capacity in nursing homes. In this assessment, the Court of Auditors ignored the fact that these are European cohesion funds that cannot be spent on building homes for the elderly but only on developing social infrastructure services within the framework of community care, it is said, outside the homes for the elderly, which would partially reduce the need to accommodate the elderly in their homes for the elderly. This is not just a matter of finding out, but rather of developing concrete social services for the care of the elderly at home or within the context of the daily centres. It is therefore not possible to spend European money to ensure the lack of capacity in nursing homes. There is only the possibility of us using resources to develop the community care of the elderly for the purpose of deinstitutionalisation, or we do not use it. In designing a long-term care system, we want a comprehensive approach to a problem that will address the needs of older citizens with user-friendly treatment. For most elderly people want to stay at home as long as possible, and they do not want to go to their homes for the elderly. It is rare for those who want to go home to their own free will, so it is necessary at national level to establish a public supply network with help at home at uniform standards and prices and with equal accessibility in all Slovene municipalities. In addition, we support the development of complementary and alternative forms of community care, such as housing cooperatives, housing communities, shelters and day care centres. Respected and respected! In our search for solutions, we want to take into account the traditional social democratic principle that puts intergenerational and social solidarity at the forefront of this issue. It is necessary to provide a new solidarity insurance to which active and retired people would contribute, where possible, as a single source of funding for long-term care and a single basket of services to which the user is entitled. New social security is essential in order to ensure the necessary level of additional resources, thereby reducing the burden of care and assistance, which today is largely, regrettably, left to the ingenuity and ability of marriage partners, their descendants or other relatives. Because of the burdens and ways of life today, family members are becoming increasingly difficult to care for their elderly relatives, so we urgently need changes in the area of long - term care. The Social Democrats will not support the recommendations proposed because we believe that the prosecution will not contribute to solving the problem. In particular, we want to focus on finding solutions that will lead to the urgent reform of long-term care and will continue to ensure intergenerational and social solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by Mrs Janja Slug on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u14	This week, the work of parliamentary working bodies has taken place after most of the week to address the issues relating to the care of the elderly, which is undoubtedly due to the recent audit of the Court of Auditors and its findings that the Government has not been successful in caring for those who, due to age, mental or physical harm, need the help of others. In fact, it has shown the country's attitude towards regulating this area over the past 20 years, and this is certainly not something to be proud of. And it is only right that we acknowledge this joint failure. In the light of demographic changes and projections forecasting an ever-increasing proportion of the older population, there is a serious debate in the long-term care system on the ground. And this city must take over as soon as possible in our society, urgently and inevitably. We cannot therefore say that today's debate on the Government's recommendation is not welcome, on the contrary. We welcome the debate on the importance of adequate long-term care and at the same time point to the heart of the problem – an appropriate law on long-term care, which has been in preparation for more than 15 years. The shortcomings pointed out by the Court of Auditors in the audit are the result of years of inadequate management and policy planning in the field of elder care. The audit findings cannot thus be derived solely from the activity of the current Minister of Labour, who has unfortunately been dealing with the situation since the beginning of his term of office. And apparently, not all the skeletons still fell out of the closet. The fact is that the Court of Auditors carried out a similar audit, which will be discussed today, already in 2008. At the time of the audit, it was found that social security programmes or services do not cover the needs and that the existing network does not provide all beneficiaries with equal integration opportunities. At that time, the Court of Auditors concluded that the state did not have a clear answer to the question of where to go with those who need protection and the care of others. We are facing the same situation today, after a good ten years since this first audit was carried out. This means that the authorities of the good decade were unable to regulate this area, although they were familiar with the situation and were alerted to problems. For ten years, the competent ministers put the area of long-term care on the sidelines, which is why pointing fingers at one minister or minister, especially the current government, is unfair, though convenient. However, it is true that certain facts do not remain hidden, especially since they come from the audit report itself and actually relate to the work of the previous mandate. Despite the fact that the responsibility of drafting a long-term care law with 2017 from the Ministry of Labour is transferred to the Ministry of Health, we need to be honest and to conclude that the Court of Auditors in the audit report in several places of failure is mainly evident to the Ministry of Labour and is therefore the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Health is inherited only by transferring the competence of the long-term care area from the Ministry of Labour. This is most clearly illustrated by the Court of Auditors’ finding that the pre-receipt record of what tasks the Ministry of Health is expected to carry out after the delegation of power and whose Ministry of Labour has never been drawn up. Similar findings have been made in the audit report in many ways and since the beginning of this mandate, when the new management of the Ministry of Labour has faced many and many of the problems raised. It is therefore clear that the Ministry of Labour in the past did not collect key data on social protection services and consequently did not carry out thorough analyses of the actual situation, thereby preventing the effective planning of emergency measures for the future. From this point of view, the task of the Ministry of Health or the Directorate for Long-term Care in regulating the long-term care by transferring powers from the Ministry of Labour has been greatly hampered. We certainly agree, however, that the area of long-term care must finally be taken into consideration, firmly supported by work and concrete measures to ensure decent care and accommodation for all the elderly. This is the task of the entire government, especially the Minister of Health. Activities should be accelerated and all necessary efforts should be made to finalize the law. However, we Members believe that we are going through so much political will and consensus that we are contributing constructively to this, because of course this is our shared responsibility. We support the debate on the Court of Auditors' findings in the SMC Group. It is an important warning to the State that insufficient care has been done in the last 15 or even 20 years in the area of long-term care. It is not enough for all who today need help at home, community services, or nursing homes to receive sufficient quality treatment. We hope that today's debate will be rational and that it will show citizens and citizens in particular that we all care about how we will create policies in the future that will improve the position of the elderly in our society. In the last year, the current composition of the Ministry of Labour has shown that it is possible to work differently to be proactive and to pursue a different policy of home care and the protection of the elderly. An additional 700 home beds will be provided next year. The possibility of building new units of public institutions based on the principle of public-private partnership is promising, and more than 10 million European funds will be available for deinstitutionalisation in particular. Let me point out the most recent cases aimed at moving residents from special welfare institutions to smaller housing units: House in Kras and Centre for the Training of Work and Protection of Montenegro in Koroška. These are the projects that make us optimistic in the SMC that the situation can be improved. We will still need institutions in the future, but significantly less or otherwise than today. Let us therefore allow the conditions for people to stay as long as possible at home, not to be socially excluded, and to represent, as a whole, valuable added value for society. We will certainly continue to follow these social innovations.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The basis for these recommendations is the recent audit report of the Court of Auditors, which, of course, we have also examined in detail in Levica. It's true what the Court of Auditors finds. The content of long-term care in Slovenia does not work. The system's falling apart. 11,000 elderly people are waiting for admission to their homes, and the demand for home care is three times higher than the demand for other forms of care. The number of single beds, as we have pointed out in these days, is moving somewhere between 0 and 1. Private operators, i.e. foreign corporations with concessions, with the permission and approval of the Ministry, transfer investment costs, private capital costs directly to the elderly living in these homes. This also makes private institutions more expensive than public institutions by 28%. The Court of Auditors has even found that some private individuals have also charged their residents the costs of long-standing loans, thus creating a net profit for private capital on their shoulders. Meanwhile, the state is asleep. She has not built a public house for 20 years, only to have any strategy to build enough capacity. As a result of this de facto political decision, commercialisation of the care of the elderly has resulted in lower standards and increasing accessibility to quality institutional care. By granting concessions to private companies and by creating regulations that allow for the creation of profits through the implementation of older people's activities, the State has opened up a market where it should not actually be – in the weakest. The introduction of market logic and the absence of public policies and the absence of public funds has led to the market becoming a market for older people instead of public services. At the time of the collapse of the system, the Court of Auditors correctly notes that EUR 74.5 million for experimental projects whose content has never been clearly defined, I quote, is “an disproportionate cost compared to the necessary resources to ensure the missing capacity”. End of quote. Although these funds have not yet been used, which the Court of Auditors does not even claim, it says that 74.5 million funds are earmarked for this and yes, on the day 10 thousand 944 applicants need immediate accommodation at home, this is wrongly intended and will also be misused. That is why we will support these recommendations in Levica. So much more so that yesterday we were able to reach a follow-up to the recommendations with the 3 recommendations that we made in Levica alone. These are mainly related to irregularities in determining prices paid by elderly people in nursing homes. While we have been warning about these irregularities since the beginning of the year, we have already proposed two appropriate conclusions in this regard, which the coalition has repeatedly rejected. With the recommendations proposed by the Ministry, we expect him to check immediately, immediately restricting the supply price to those concessionaires who wrongly charge higher prices to their residents. That is also the case, only the Court of Auditors found in the audit. We also expect the Ministry to urgently regulate the area of additional paying services, where severe anomalies occur, and it is determined that a single agency for the content of paying services must obtain the Ministry's consent. For now it is happening that homes of service that fall under basic social care, i.e. every smallest aid to the caregivers, charge extra. Specifically: 2 euros to help you sit in a wheelchair, 3 euros to help you dress, 1 euro to help you insert a hearing aid and so on. It's a direct disgraceful practice. We have calculated, say, that already some basic activities in which older people need some help in their homes can also mean 10 or more euros of additional costs per day, costs that should be included in basic social care that should be provided by homes for older citizens to their residents and residents. Therefore, the recommendations call again for this area to be regulated in a uniform manner and for it to be clearly stated that certain services are not allowed to be charged further. Finally, we propose that the Ministry should immediately explain why those 5.2 million euro surpluses of institutional care providers have been used, for which the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia has also found that their use has not been clarified and that the National Assembly is informed within 60 days. I would like to point out that, if accepted and taken into account, the recommendations of the Left can be remedied by certain anomalies found by the Court of Auditors. They address problems that can be tackled with some political will. Problems and injustices in the system for which we do not need any new working group, no new strategy, no analyses, no studies, and also not this long-awaited law on long-term care, these problems can and must be addressed here and now. All they need to do is spit in their hands at the Ministry, roll up their sleeves and go into action. Finally, I would like to point out another problem that we have also tried to address in a proposal for a recommendation that was not adopted on the home committee yesterday. We have been warning in Levica all the time that it is not fair for users to pay for private capital investment costs. This allows the current system of home care concessions for the elderly. We will therefore insist that the rules change in such a way that private concessionaires are no longer allowed to transfer the price of the investment, the cost of capital directly to the user, the payer, their owner or the local community. As a result, prices for concessionaires are up to 28 % higher. And it's unfair to senior caregivers and caregivers, to their relatives, to local communities that co-finance domestic care. Concessions in the care of the elderly constitute a violent intrusion of market logic in the supply and subordination of this social state subsystem to profit logic. Logics for building and maintaining foreign corporations instead of the country, homes for the elderly in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u18	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, Fellow Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Long-term care in Slovenia is still not regulated. In New Slovenia, this is one of the biggest problems of our health system and social care. Long-term care services consist of both social and health services. For those rights that fall within the scope of long-term care by nature, the funds provided from various public sources, such as the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the budget of the municipalities, are now available. In addition, private funds are also provided for the payment or payment of services to persons who have used certain services and assets of their owners. We could simply say that the system is extremely messy and impregnable, as unfortunately many areas in our country. This, however, opens up inconspicuous possibilities for untransparent and reckless treatment of the money we are talking about today. The Court of Auditors, at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and at the Ministry of Health, revised the effective provision of accessibility and the availability of social protection services to those who, due to age, mental or physical harm, need the assistance of others. This time the audit referred to the period from 1. 1. 2007 to 30. 6. 2018 and sought to disclose the changes that have taken place in the field of care for aid necessary since the audit report was issued in 2008. The Court of Auditors considers that the State’s concern for providing assistance to all who need it during the period covered by the audit has not been satisfactory. Colleagues and colleagues, who's gonna get away with this? If we say this in New Slovenia, there is no effect on the government. If this exposes the entire opposition, it's still nothing. Now that the Court of Auditors has clearly highlighted the problem, will the government respond? According to the government's answers, there's not much hope. A lot of words, but a little commitment. The Court of Auditors explicitly points out that the state of welfare in Slovenia is critical. For more than 10 years, the country has not implemented the necessary measures. In New Slovenia, we ask ourselves, who will be responsible for this? The growing trend in the population will make the situation worse and the existing social care system, according to the Court of Auditors, is unsustainable due to poor staffing policy, unfair pricing and unequal treatment of users. In New Slovenia, we believe that it is crucial to follow the development of alternative facilities for long-term care and to ensure the expansion of health care. Services must also be offered at home and in the form of neighborly or voluntary assistance. However, it is important to provide funding for this, which increases in particular the choice of beneficiaries. Those services, which will be provided exclusively through long-term care insurance, must follow the fundamental principle of prevention against rehabilitation and short-term care against long-term care. In short, people who are paid to do their job. Members of New Slovenia support the recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for a recommendation before us has raised a number of important issues. In matters of institutional protection and long-term care, division into coalition and opposition is not in place. We have to admit that. In view of the Court of Auditors’ opinion, the applicant points out that the situation in the area of long-term care in Slovenia is not satisfactory. It is a problem of equal or comparable treatment of beneficiaries in the provision of social protection services, spatial distress in nursing homes, the construction of new homes and so on. We are also aware of these challenges without the opinion of the Court of Auditors. During the 2014-2020 programming period, a project has already been completed in the area of long-term care to provide a basis for the implementation of pilot projects. These will support the transition to the implementation of the system law on long-term care. The project was carried out by the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. There, among others, they have developed tools to assess the needs of users, to determine eligibility for long-term supply services and to review data, and other necessary matters. Of course, the further tasks and steps that await us will not be easy. Like most European countries, Slovenia faces changes in the age structure of the population. According to the European Commission's assessment, low fertility and consequently ageing of the population represent one of the major social and economic challenges of the old continent. And in the light of these changes, we will have to adapt a range of systems, such as health, pension, long-term care and labour markets. But an increasing proportion of those over 65 years of age in our society is also an opportunity. Older employees can be excellent mentors to younger workers, and they can participate in the transfer of knowledge to new generations. However, the share of the working population will be lower, so fewer inflows to the pension register are expected while increasing the number of users. As a result, pension and disability insurance reforms in the direction of long-term financial sustainability are essential. The first steps in the preparation of the novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance have been taken. We also welcome the SAB Group and are pleased that the material situation of pensioners will finally be improved. An area of particular importance is long-term care. The law, which would definitively regulate this area, the area of personal assistance and long-term care insurance, has been waiting for more than ten years. It would increase the supply and accessibility of homes for the elderly and establish alternative long-term care systems such as housing communities for the elderly and the like. In the SAB Group, we want each pensioner to be able to pay his pension at home and live peacefully in the autumn of his life. This would also relieve the current and future working generation. The fact is that Slovenia does not yet have a uniform system of long-term care. Such services, benefits and funding are dispersed in healthcare structures, in social and parental care, pensions and invalidity pensions. We are talking too long about an appropriate law to define and, above all, simplify the system of measures. But criticizing from a safe distance away from taking responsibility is the easiest and most comfortable. We therefore stress that we have committed the coalition partners to resolve the situation in the area of long-term care. Both competent ministries have responded to the Court of Auditors’ opinion and are preparing a response report. In preparing further steps, however, the opinion will be followed and taken into account. Therefore, in the end, I repeat what has already been heard today - the resources raised by the proposaler are European funds for concrete projects and have not yet begun to be used. This needs to be made clear and all deceptions and creating a sense of chaos by wasting enormous resources for studies are considered unacceptable. We trust both ministries in the SAB Group, and therefore we do not support the proposal for recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Court of Auditors, following an audit entitled “How the Republic of Slovenia takes care of those who need protection and care for age, mental or physical harm” which was carried out in 2008, has re-examined the situation of the protection of the elderly in a comprehensive manner, which covers the whole period following the first audit. This time, the Court of Auditors asked how successful we are in ensuring the accessibility and availability of social protection services and other services needed. Both reviews show that the Republic of Slovenia is not adequately responsive and successful in addressing the problem of long-lived society and thus increased needs to ensure the quality social and health care of older people and all others who also need the help of others for a decent life. We do not respond quickly enough to demographic change, but we do not respond to population ageing in an even less appropriate and effective manner. We must agree with this in the Democratic Party of Pensioners. In Slovenia, there has been a chronic shortage of homes for older people for many years. There is no need for the Court of Auditors to find out. This is confirmed by the fact that there are registered applications for domestic supply of about 25,000. Although we know that applications may be sent to stock or placed in several places. However, there are more than 10,000 current requests. Thus, due to the lack of free capacity and additionally due to the overexpensive care of people who can no longer care for themselves, the search for a free and affordable place outside our borders is becoming more and more up-to-date, most in Croatia. The older population over 65 today represents 20% of the total population, and in 20 years this percentage will reach 30%. That the country does not take into account their real needs and expectations in relation to the elderly, budgetary resources for future investments also testify. Since 2007, the state has provided a total of only EUR 40 million and no new home has been built. The coming financial years are also no more optimistic. Although Slovenia has in the past set itself a goal, to strengthen and accelerate the movement from home to community-based forms of assistance in the context of a long-term care policy. In recent years, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the Enka of Opportunities has sought to give priority in its projects to home care, the setting up of day centres, labour units and other non-domestic forms of assistance. But the Slovenians still remain very domestically oriented, as demand for home care is now, according to the Court of Auditors, even three times higher than other forms of aid. Among other forms of assistance, for example, formal assistance at home, which is primarily provided and co-financed by congregations, and informal care on the shoulders of children and relatives. There is also a special significance in our society to volunteering. Let me mention at least one of them here and commend the project of the Union of Retirement Associations of Slovenia entitled “Older for Older Persons”, in which, with unselfish work, 3 000 500 volunteers and volunteers successfully contribute to the quality of living of older people over 69 years of age in domestic care. Informal concern today still expresses a high level of intergenerational cooperation, which is increasingly questionable over the longer term. The younger generations, these are children who in most cases care for their parents, because it is difficult for them to take full care of their helpless parents today. Prescribing responsibility to children or expecting them to take care of their own parents is, in our opinion, unseemly, inappropriate. As regards assistance at home, which is carried by the congregations, this, according to the Court of Auditors, is even 17 times kept from home care. This does not affect the fact that home care, when the care provider is more friendly in the user’s home environment, and that the caregiver can be much more available to the user than the staff in the home. A further finding by the Court of Auditors is that such assistance does not provide a uniform model for the obligation of all municipalities and thus passes from home aid users at different ends of Slovenia to large differences. As regards the comparison between concessionaires and public homes, the auditors of the Court of Auditors have stated that home-staying with concession is held by almost 28%. With regard to the latter, if this is the case, we can comment in our parliamentary group regretting that in the past we have left care for the development and upgrading of public household care and allowed private access. If we had already allowed this, however, it was a key error that the State did not ensure that the supply price would be at least uniform regardless of the operator. Unfortunately, the latter is not the same in public homes today. Nevertheless, let us not forget that the low pensions of our pensioners do not even allow many to afford a stay in a private or concessional home, nor does it allow a home. We also hear many stories about how home care is inadequate, insufficient, that staff treat users inappropriately and superficially. The dissatisfaction of residents and their relatives is justified in many ways. Of course, it is our assessment to attribute to a large extent human resources malnutrition and regulatory standards the scope of work and tasks. Employees in health care and social care are overburdened by the number of users they have to care for and the payment for their self-sacrifice is very low. Let me tell you, just above the minimum wage, you get a nurse and a social care provider, about 800 euros nurse. Nevertheless, judging by the responses of residents at home, low wages do not affect the quality of work of employees. The kind words and smiles on their faces are still present despite their exhaustion. Thus, we can conclude here that the conditions for living in nursing homes are still good. Although the debate material is still huge and I will certainly say something else in the debate below, let me conclude the position of the Desus Group with the following. A number of things, as recorded in the Court of Auditors’ audit report, need to be imagined, but at the same time it is necessary to allow the competent ministries to carry out their work and to prepare response reports within the time limit they have and to clarify all indications. In order to make care for the elderly more friendly, fairer, especially for all equally accessible and qualityly done in any form, it should be arranged in one place and uniformly with all operators. This should have been arranged by the long - awaited law on long - term care. But time is by no means an ally of those in need of social help today, for they alone are unable to care for themselves because of their age. So let us all put together the top of the social priority scale finally to care for the elderly and to adopt the law as soon as possible. However, national and local budgetary resources should become more generous in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u24	Nice hello to you all! The rise of the elderly raises the question of whether the state responds adequately to the needs of an ageing society increasingly faced with social exclusion. Life expectancy is increasing. There is an increasing number of older populations who will need help in everyday life. An ever-increasing part is the elderly who feel threatened and socially excluded. Social exclusion is therefore a complex social phenomenon. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the country is concerned about the state of emergency of excruciating changes in both the health and social spheres. It should be borne in mind that today's social changes require a faster adjustment to social security. We believe that an old man is not a burden to society, but an equal member of society. The view that an elderly person is a burden of society is urgently rejected and strongly condemned. Age today is a hidden discrimination, as age discrimination is becoming increasingly variable. Unfortunately, work has been done at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. In recent times, there have been very few proposed laws aimed at legal certainty and the protection of older people. In the area of competence of these two ministries, discrimination against the elderly is the most noticeable. The area of long-term care will need to be regulated systematically. Today, if we adopt a law on long - term care, we are too late. The situation on the ground is horrendous because of the long-standing conscious neglect of this area. It is unacceptable that this issue is regulated in 7 different laws. This prevailing situation is due mainly to the fact that we have a completely liberalised country where only bureaucrats working in this area know all the rights arising from laws. I wonder how an elder should know and defend his rights if his status is regulated by 7 different laws. This situation undermines the rule of law and the social state. Finally, it will be necessary to agree on whether we will give priority to forms of assistance in nursing homes that are not sufficiently privileged to individuals, or whether we will try to treat assistance in the home environment, or whether we will try to treat both areas equally. We will also need to find agreement in society on how we will finance long-term care. A way of quality and decent ageing will be provided, including the well-being and respect of individuals. If protection in homes and certain basic social services has been sufficient some time ago, today the delivery of care is becoming a challenge that requires new innovations and their adaptability. This challenge concerns all individuals, so it is right that we are discussing this today. In any case, we will support the proposal by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the SDS Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u26	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have decided to convene an urgent meeting of the National Assembly due to unsustainable conditions in the area of long-term care. Slovenia is becoming an ageing society. Data show that in Slovenia 19.7% are over 65 years of age. However, projections predict that this share will increase to 30% in 2050. 30 years after 1 out of every 3 people in Slovenia are over 65 years old. That is why the issue of long-term care and the age-deserving vitality for our country is important. We must be aware that it is these older decades that have been working and creating the well-being of our country, so it is our duty to allow them a decent autumn of life. Long-term care is one of the areas which, in the context of the social policies of the economically developed countries, has taken an increasingly important place in recent years. What does it look like in Slovenia? The fact is that nothing has been done in this area in recent years, even though the situation is extremely problematic, even chaotic. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as well as the Ministry of Health, stress that the priority in this area is the preparation of systemic solutions, including the preparation of a long-awaited long-term care law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we get the feeling that whenever the Government does not have the right solutions or does not want to support the opposition's well-meaning proposals, it will play on the systemic map, but most of the time it will remain in the forecast and there will be no system-wide arrangements. On 16 September 2019, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia carried out an audit to verify whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Health were within the period from 1. 1. 2007 to 30. 6. 2018 successful in ensuring the accessibility and accessibility of social protection services. The Court of Auditors held that the State had failed to do its work and that the provision of assistance to all those in need had not been satisfactory. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have been pointing out for a long time the necessity of adopting a long-term supply law that would allow for fundamental conditions for the operation of this area. On the basis of the Court of Auditors’ opinion, we can find that we are still in a position to do so. It is incredibly sad and, of course, unacceptable for the ministries, which should have a clear strategy and defined objectives, to have solutions in the area of long-term care, not even basic information as to how many beneficiaries need the assistance of others and how many have been left without it in the period to which the audit relates. It's really amazing. The Court of Auditors also found that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons did not ensure equal and comparable treatment of beneficiaries with regard to access to services, regardless of whether they would opt for an institutional or community-based form of social protection service. The Court of Auditors states, inter alia, that in 2016 only 8.9% of all almost 400 000 beneficiaries received aid in the form of different social protection services. It is unacceptable and irresponsible that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has limited the type and extent of assistance at home, which means that the beneficiaries can receive only 80 hours of specific aid, not necessarily so much aid and the types of treatment or tasks that they would actually need. The same or comparable treatment was not provided to users of care in nursing homes, since the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities did not specify the criteria and criteria for admission to institutions, did not specify the standards of care in nursing homes, did not lay down all the necessary social welfare standards in nursing homes and did not set precise criteria and criteria for the classification of users of institutional protection in individual categories of care. We also point out that it is irresponsible for the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to ensure equal or comparable treatment of beneficiaries in ensuring the basic availability of social protection services. Neither the Government of the Republic of Slovenia nor the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, nor the Ministry of Health have adequately planned a new system of long-term care. Nor has the Government specified and delimited the tasks for which each of the two ministries is to be responsible. In the preparation of the proposal for a long-term care law, the weaknesses of the existing social protection system have not been precisely identified and the necessary resources and resources have not been accurately calculated, taking into account the actual needs of beneficiaries and the trend of population ageing. It is also abnormal and absurd that the Government has committed a total of EUR 74,5 million to projects that are intended to demonstrate whether long-term care solutions are appropriate or not. The Court of Auditors finds that this is a disproportionate cost compared to the necessary resources to ensure the lack of capacity. For this money, it is estimated that we could build 10 homes for older citizens, which would be according to the current situation when the request for a home is more than 24 000, and a good 10,000 elderly people would need a city in the home immediately, urgently. In view of the above, it cannot be expected that the State with the planned projects and measures and the envisaged law governing long-term care, which, in view of the expected activities of the Ministry of Health in the public debate already in August 2019 and sent for inter-resort coordination in October 2019, would highlight a system that would provide care to all beneficiaries in need, regardless of the region where they are staying, and regardless of their financial capacity. We should also recall, however, that despite warnings from experts and institutions such as the European Commission, Slovenia must immediately regulate the long-term care area as a result of the rapid ageing of the population. For many years, the competent authorities have been delaying the introduction of a system of care for the elderly, which would provide the services they need to all the elderly, regardless of their financial capacity. It is also unacceptable that in a totally unacceptable situation today, in particular, older people with greater care needs are in a situation where domestic care is not taken into account, but at the same time homes for older people due to inadequate standards are increasingly unable to take responsibility for ensuring quality and safe professional care. The Ombudsman also points to the critical nature of the long-term care situation. Even though there is a general consensus that long-term care needs to be fully regulated, we still have not succeeded. In the view of the Ombudsman, the transfer of responsibility for the adoption of a system law on long-term care from one source to another must be exceeded, as health care and social care are inseparably linked. The State must establish an accessible, efficient and financially sustainable system of long-term care based on social justice and intergenerational solidarity. Nor should we ignore warnings that we will soon face a shortage of human resources, that is, those who will provide long-term care. If I return to the planned spending of €74.5 million for projects that are supposed to demonstrate the appropriateness of the solution for long-term care, the Parsifal public opinion survey is also very well informed. This has shown that the vast majority of respondents, 62.7% of them, consider that in this case there is a suspicion of serious abuse requiring the determination of all circumstances and responsibilities. We certainly agree with this in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Since we consider it unreasonable to plan the spending of budgetary money and the failure of the Government or the competent ministries to ensure the accessibility of social protection, we have made a request for an urgent meeting. We cannot agree with the fact that hundreds of thousands of elderly countries do not know whether or not and what social protection would require thousands of older months and years to wait for a place in a nursing home where low-wage workers burn in the midst of work, that the elderly who want to spend their fall of life in the shelter of their homes do not have the possibility of day care and help at home. We will never agree that the older burdens on society and the state budget are. They are the ones who have even created the prosperity that we are living today, the irresistible source of wisdom and experience, we just need to listen to them, to know and to want. And when the moment comes when they can no longer take care of themselves, we must, as a state, give them dignity.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. As the last position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Nina Maurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Nowhere does it appear more, clearer and more pronounced, whether we are still a compassionate and solidarity society and whether the country is still social, as seen in the relationship and caring for the elderly and destitute. Let us at this moment feel as chili, healthy and fit, the path of ageing is one that we ourselves cannot escape in the decades to come. We live in times when it is not acceptable to be a weaker member. The modern way of life requires that we are extremely productive, driven, active, efficient and indestructible, that we do not get sick and do our best all the time. A hundred percent is required of each individual. In this whirlpool of desire for growth, progress and better life, not only do we forget those who have already given their best years for this society, but we, after all, forget that one day, perhaps just soon, old or helpful ourselves will be needed. Demographic indicators clearly show that we are ageing as a society. We are not only facing this problem in Slovenia, but we are all developing a part of the world. At this point in Slovenia, 1 in 5 people is no longer able to take full care of themselves and need some kind of help. It is usually offered by family members or institutions. In Slovenia, we have long closed our eyes before the ageing of the population is one of the biggest challenges of future regulation of the society in which we live. The growing proportion of older people does not only mean that we will need to approach new ways of caring for this segment of people in an integrated manner, but that we will need to become creative and resourceful in inventing forms of assistance and assistance. Older people will need to be motivated to reach active age and keep them in the home environment as long as possible. Most of the elders actually want to. Staying in an institution, a home for older citizens, will eventually become primarily for those who will need an extremely wide range of professional assistance and health services. In order for older people to be able to stay in their home environment as well as longer as possible, a number of processes, approaches, conceptual solutions and start connecting different segments, from health, social services, insurance schemes, volunteering and non-governmental organisations, various accommodation capacities, to involve local communities, families, humanitarian organisations, different sources of funding – from own resources, to state subsidies, private-public partnerships, acquisition of European funds, to openly discuss the system of awarding concessions and could also list them. It is a complex complication, but it only becomes more complicated by delay and becomes like a Gordy knot. Demographic indicators put us on the real ground. In our subconscious, the imprinted image of a seeded midwife knitting jokes and gloves along with the warm breadcrumbs, taking care of her children and grandchildren who remained in the household, has long survived. Many elderly people have only one, maybe two offspring. These are crucified between work obligations and their own families, child rearing, and they face many challenges themselves, and, above all, they lack time and often lack money for their parents. The social and economic system thus pushes older ones into loneliness and loneliness, social and social exclusion. The Action Plan, the Long-term Care Act and the rapid transposition of both into practice should become a priority for social and demographic policies in the coming years and this decade. This is what we expect from the competent ministries and governments. We are aware of the situation which the Court of Auditors also draws attention to in its audit report. But it must be pointed out that, at this point in time, we, too, unfortunately, cannot correct it from today to tomorrow, as neither can the government before us. Moreover, ad hoc solutions and poorly thought-out quick fire action, which we are also addressing with the recommendations that we are considering today, can cause irreparable and severe damage. First, as a society and a country, we need to define what everything and exactly what long-term care is for us at all. The rights that can be considered as long-term care by international definition are governed by legislation in a number of areas and funding is fragmented among different institutions. And since there are so many unknown people in this area, it is excellent that we have the opportunity to test proposals, new tools, mechanisms, services and solutions on pilot projects. These projects include, inter alia, funding of €74.5 million to which today's recommendations by the proposer relate. I am pleased that, at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we have made clear clearly and loudly that the funds still unused, which are 80% funded by the European Union and 20% by Slovenia. They are not intended for any paper studies, but for direct services. This means that specific long-term supply projects will be made available to beneficiaries completely free of charge until these funds are spent. Their implementation will make it easier to assess the benefits and weaknesses in practice and will be an excellent starting point for the further development of the long-term care sector. In addition, funds will also be earmarked for measures aimed at creating infrastructure conditions to support deinstitutionalisation and the development of community forms of social services. In the Marjan Šarca List page, we support all such efforts and useful projects that help us to be equipped in the future with knowledge and data that will lead to the development of an effective long-term care system. In the first place, we expect Members to receive as soon as possible a proposal for a law on long-term care. The fact is that any public enlightenment on this type of issue is welcome, but it is unworthy that this same topic becomes a field of politicisation, demonstration of muscles and endless hours of debate at meetings of committees and of the National Assembly. It's like four this week. People are looking at us and expecting results, and we are counterproductive, and for hours as representatives of ministries are sitting with us in the National Assembly at this meeting, less time is left for them to work in the ministries and the law that we expect of them as executive authorities. Therefore, we will not support today's recommendations in the Marjana Sharca List, but we support all the activities of ministries which are and will be linked in any way to the drafting of the Long-term Care Act and other activities related to the resolution of the problem of the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're starting a debate. First, he gets the word "proposer" and then Mr Joseph Lenart is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Presentations by the parliamentary groups have been exhausted, opinions, we have heard many transfers at the expense of this. I will stop at the worst, a colleague from the Party of Social Democrats to me or to mark the findings of the Court of Auditors as misleading data. Nevertheless, I would expect a certain degree of respect in this debate today, even for institutions such as the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is a public institution with a public authority to exercise control over the purposeful use of public funds. The findings of the Court of Auditors' audit are professional and I do not believe that in such discussions it is in any way considered by some members of the party to be misleading data. The fact is also that your client has been in power for a period of ten years, and this audit of the Court of Auditors is related to about ten years. We all agreed that the data concerns that the situation is critical. You expect something to be proposed, but look, you've been to the government, you've had this resort under control, but nothing has been done until today. Nothing in this area to make things better. That is why today there are problems that the Court of Auditors draws attention to. There was a great deal of news that the funds were not spent, that they were just meant to be. But if the funds are earmarked, I believe they will also be spent, because if they are not spent, it is so much worse, given what content you today have advocated, why these funds will be spent. Even when it comes to cohesion funds, these are our resources, the public funds that are essentially the resources of all citizens, and if you have intended to spend them on some studies and analyses that will not have an effect, it is even worse. However, in order to delay the implementation of these projects, the Court of Auditors warned you as much yesterday. By the way, given the reports we have on European funds, how successful you are in this government, we know that, according to the August report - only 25% of the European funds are spent. Although it has tried to shift attention to anything other than what we want to stress in the Slovenian Democratic Party today, this is that the Court of Auditors has determined the reckless use of the funds of EUR 74.5 million. Whether it's from the state budget or it's from European cohesion funds, it's all public tax money. And these are the findings of the Court of Auditors and by no means the Slovenian Democratic Party. If we read the Court of Auditors' audit, obviously some of us are not, because I believe that the content of the debates would not be what it was. On page 108, the Court of Auditors notes in its audit that neither the content of the projects nor the objectives to be achieved through the projects can be identified. Therefore, there is no specific content with projects and no effect on the new long-term care regime is expected. The Court of Auditors notes that the ministries carry out and plan projects on certain ideas, rather than on identified or identified needs, and not on financial capabilities in any way. However, such an approach will not lead to an improvement in the direction of better accessibility and accessibility for all those who need it. So once again, you have this written down in the Court of Auditors' audit, it's not our client's idea. We all agree that it is necessary to adopt a system law, i.e. a law on long-term care. Yesterday much was said about this also on the committee where we both had former ministers, both for health and for work, family and social affairs. And I have to say that they both competed, who had previously drafted the law, whether it was now the former Minister of Labour or the former Minister of Health, but the fact is that there is no law. And because there is no law, people suffer because we do not have long-term care as it should be in view of demographic trends in our country. It was said that the law would be discussed in the National Assembly in the following year in April. I believe, therefore, that according to such a timeline, you also have the funds already provided for, how this law will be implemented or on which funds. And I would also ask, perhaps, the representative of the Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State, to explain a little, to see if you already have a system developed, then you should have it in view of the fact that the law will be in April, that is, next year, in a debate in the National Assembly. However, given that, despite all these extensive debates on the various commissions and committees before today's extraordinary meeting, I do not have the answers to some important questions, which the Court of Auditors also points out in its revision, and I will point them out again today, but I hope that at least some today will be more willing to receive answers from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. First of all, I would like to know why you have decided to extend the social and social security services. I would no longer be hearing about how this is set out in the operational programme for drawing on European cohesion funds. Yes, the program is adopted as it is, but you have built a whole system to spread these forms of society, regardless of what has been said in the first place, you have no data on the state or needs of our population at all. About 90% of people don’t even know what help they need or whether they need it and, as a result, what help they need. Where were your starting points, though, that you decided to spread community forms? Despite the fact that these forms of society are three times more expensive than domestic care, that they are less useful than institutional forms, given the Court of Auditors’ warnings and the demographic trends we have in Slovenia. In particular, as has been pointed out, we have more than 11,000 people who want to go to the old people's home, but in the ten years since you've been on the government, since the Social Democrats have controlled this area, no home has been built for pensioners. I want to know how you're going to solve this domestic supply problem. The audit itself also highlighted three pressing issues concerning institutional protection, which were also not properly addressed in all these committees or meetings of the committees we had. It's a human resources issue. You are talking about all these projects that you will implement within the framework of community forms, but also within the framework of community forms you have a shortage of staff, there are no providers. They are not in the field of institutional protection, nor are they in community forms. So you're going to spend millions on different projects and studies, and maybe you're going to build something, but where are you going to get a frame to do all this? There was nothing said about that. I have initially pointed out that you currently have such human resources under the calculations of the Court of Auditors, because you have failed to make them yourself, that at present one provider in the home of the elderly in eight hours, which he has during his work obligation, has to provide 51 adults or calculated slightly less than 10 minutes per provider. I probably don't need to tell you more about the care and care of these elderly people, no matter how much I believe everyone is there with some kind of heart, and they're doing their best, but sometimes that's not enough. The problem is prices. Here, too, the Court of Auditors has pointed out that the prices of the elderly are being overpaid and that there are unspecified standards or standards, which result in the service users not being in an equal position. And here the Court of Auditors reminds you that this has happened precisely because the Ministry of Labour has not adopted the relevant legislation or regulations have been adopted and they have not been corrected in accordance with the warnings of both the Court of Auditors and the social inspection in recent years. I am not saying that this audit found this in September, but I am talking about years ago, 2014, 2015, 2016, the social inspection alerted you to this problem, today in 2019, and the ministry has not yet been able to explain how this will solve it. With regard to the projects to be carried out in the context of these various studies and analyses for these overpaid ones, at least I personally consider EUR 74.5 million. You're saying it's not a study and analysis here, I have a title here and the content of the projects, and I'm going to read them a little bit because I'm really interested, and then I'm going to ask you to stand by the competent ministries to explain precisely, because you've already been warned by the Court of Auditors, who wanted to be more precise, more specific about the implementation of the projects, and they didn't get them. This is what the audit says, and also yesterday on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs was repeated by the Court of Auditors. You probably have some content more concretely defined, I would really like you to tell them here today, present them with some concrete measures and effects, because it was obvious that we were misleading the public. However, I would like to point out here in particular one such project, which may come out in particular, but I am interested in what you will achieve with it, or what it means at all, because the Court of Auditors could not explain what you are trying to achieve. This project is a modernisation of the network of existing units in the Community services supply centres. Here the Court of Auditors warned that the Ministry was not even aware of the word modernisation or was unable to explain it after the Court of Auditors’ response report. In a slightly more detailed definition of content, you write that this is “co-financing of infrastructure, namely construction, purchase and/or renewal for the provision of services”. Now I am interested, given that you have an estimated 21 million 521 thousand 500 resources: Will you build units or will you buy them, will you restore them? I don't know, because there's no way to understand it from this content. However, co-financing of at least 30 units is envisaged. Now what is the unit, what will be covered by this, what will be covered by this, how much assistance will be given to the needed citizens, the elderly or those who need some long-term care will you be able to do so? Unit not defined. Does that mean, I don't know, 5, 6 users, how many? What specific goals will this achieve? In individual cases it is just some studies and analyses, I will point out here, see, you have a million resources to form a project group that is already in place at the Ministry, which will contribute to the development of strategic documents and legislative changes that will enable individuals to support their own lives. Excuse me, but I would really like a thorough analysis of this law, especially given that the preparation of the system law has been placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, where the Directorate for Long-term Care was established, we have 12 employees to prepare systemic solutions to the system law, but we still have a million European funds to cover the creation of a project unit, a group within the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs. So, specifically, what is this group going to do? Not some general statement, strategic, objectives and preparation of changes, I would like to specify in particular what we will gain from this. So much for one on my side. I must say that this debate has shown that there is still a need. The Court of Auditors has also made more than obvious reference to violations of legislation and regulations, in particular as regards the non-response of the competent ministries. However, something will have to be said about this, and I hope that if we all have some pure purpose in clarifying this situation or this unintended or as you claim the dedicated use of this EUR 74.5 million, then I see no reason why these recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party would not be accepted. Then you in the government, at the ministries, prove that these funds were earmarked and why they will be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next one gets the word, Mr. Joseph Lenart. But get ready for Mr. Nick Prebil. Joseph Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u32	Your Honor! Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I have to say, somehow, that long-term care and care for the elderly are a weak point in both of our departments that need strong ventilation. These two departments are not to blame for the situation, the current leadership, but, of course, in recent years there has been more than a backlog. If I say that three of the complete ministerial teams back then did not even meet the basic conditions for long-term care to be brought to a normal level. So the problems are pulling, the problems are getting bigger. That is why, of course, it is now a perfect revolution by the associations of the elderly and, of course, also the Alliance of Retired Society. But if I put it this way, we could also expect some kind of age-old human rise. What is happening in Slovenia should not be done with the elderly. The problems are more than engrossed, according to a Community assessment of the social institutions, more than 10 thousand people are waiting for admission to the homes of the elderly, which is why they then have problems both their own and themselves, they are at risk. People who have a disabled parent or parent at home do not hope to go on a well - deserved vacation because there is also no possibility of calling someone to keep an eye on you for 10 days while there is no room in the home. So we're talking about some kind of settlement or shipwreck of this whole area of long-term care, and I'm going to say that it's what's been a long-term settlement or a break for 10 years. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has also recognised 10 years of inactivity back. Now I have to say that I believe something is going on, but we can't see the effects. It has also been a year since the government of Marjan Šarc, so we expect that after that time, after 15 years and three failed attempts to establish a law for long-term care, the new law will somehow come to life, that we will have a soundly renewed base and actually to start showing results and solving this problem, this crisis, if we put it that way. However, if the problems of long-term care in Slovenia are not resolved, I believe there is nothing good ahead. Even after that old proverb that says, "You father to the threshold," and your son to the threshold, if we don't take care of our elders, we can't expect our young to take care of us. We have a way of making this right. Of course, we're not going to solve this overnight, because if we say so, it's a problem. However, we are also talking today about a recommendation from the Government, which we would like to address in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to all the experts involved and to point out that those experts who have worked in these areas in the past who do not know whether they worked there or slept there, because if they did, of course there were no effects of them. However, it is also worth it if, somehow, for the purposes of some studies that must be, some large sums of money were to be devoted to building what is most necessary, these are the homes and beds that are lacking. Thus, every euro available must be allocated to the acquisition of beds. If we somehow touch it, how much it costs. Home for the elderly, between four and five million is the price for it, has 100 beds. If we can build five of them, we are at the beginning of solving this problem. If we build a few more day centers and spend some more money on home aid, things start to move. Of course, we must not keep our eyes closed about this. It's a good thing we're talking about this today. Perhaps, however, I would touch on another matter, which the Minister touched on yesterday that some European funds cannot be earmarked for another than they are intended to. It is said that in the European Commission there is usually a stamp or a blessing on what we will do in Slovenia with these means, what we will receive. I agree that it takes a lot of expertise, a lot of knowledge to get to the means and then use them properly. But since we have been on two tours in Brussels recently, you have also visited the European Commission, and you have seen coalition Members there tell us that they can actually negotiate for funds, even for purposeful use, or the intention to negotiate something. We have recently had a terriblely poor use of European funds. Five years ago, we can say that this was one of our raccoons. The visits of ministers were among the last of the eighty members in Brussels. The visits of our ministers were never there, or they sent some others, their representatives, which is why the matter is as it is. Here I have a short article or a summary of the commentator Untapped millions, untapped European millions, speaking in the sense that the most successful country is in drawing on Finland's European funds, and Slovenia is in the sixth since its tail. If we are to achieve development and if we are to take good care of our elderly, something should change here. Why is it that all the time he's been saying to each other that the matter is actually in some pathetic position? It may not be worth looking back, but we need to know that there is a likelihood that the need for domestic capacity and second-hand care will double or triple as a result of population ageing. I wonder what will happen to us and to our elderly in the coming years, if we can't solve this problem now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Nik Prebil has the following word and Mr Matjaž Han has prepared himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u34	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! I certainly agree that the issues in the field of not only the elderly but all the care we are aware of and addressing. We also discussed this on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs yesterday, and I think it is right. It is necessary to adopt a law on long-term care, I agree. According to the Ministry of Health, this is a priority, and the Court of Auditors' recommendations will be taken into account in this law. If I go to the care of the elderly, we certainly agree that this is a sensitive subject, it has also been highly exposed to the media. We also agree that there are too few cities for the elderly, that the cost of care is too high. The Ministry also ensures that it has set up a working group to examine the issue and provide the proposed solutions. This is fine, of course, but certain groups have also been set up in previous mandates, because the matter has already been going on for several years, and I really expect solutions in this area as soon as possible, because there is a need to thoroughly verify and change a number of procedures so far and to check some of the existing conceptual solutions in this regard. I also agree with what has been said before, which has not been saved in the last 10 years and even more, without being solved, but will not be resolved overnight, because the matter is complex and must be provided with a functioning system and also with money. The availability of services in the care of the elderly can therefore be achieved through the creation of a new pillar, namely, this long - term care law. In Slovenia, the services of institutional protection of the elderly continue to prevail. In the past, the development of community services has not really been supported enough, and as a result it has increased and the pressure on institutional protection is increasing, an increased number of applications for homes also follows. But we must first be aware of what long-term care is and who will be involved. In view of this audit report by the Court of Auditors, I am not going to go into what is right, because the Court of Auditors is a separate body from the legislative branch of power, so I really do not intend to go into this. However, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has said that these funds, and this is 51 million 849 thousand 600, are intended not only to test the appropriateness of solutions in the area of long-term care, but also to provide services to consumers, to provide conditions for the provision of services, including investment in infrastructure. The budget of the Ministry of Health was €23 million, which is co-financed by the EU in 80%, 20% of Slovenia, as has already been said. The funds were obtained in 2017 for pilot projects that will support the transition to the implementation of the long-term supply system law that will come before us and the model of long-term care in the community and that the entire network will also be adapted. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health are working on this. I'm still wondering if it really takes so much building and a whole bunch of new homes. Something definitely safe, I agree with that. But in this direction, I have to rely on Mr Han's statement yesterday on the committee that the people or the elderly who need this kind of care really want to be at home, in their environment, as long as they can. And I suggest you just give them this home-based care. However, those who judge or want or for such and other reasons cannot stay at home must, of course, be allowed to live in a home. I believe that cities can also be provided with a certain reorganisation and a change in the existing system at home, but also with new constructions. It is true that Slovenia has become and will become an even older society, which certainly increases the need for this long-term care. But this is not just a matter of age care, it is also a matter of connection with other subsystems, such as our country's birth rate, which is currently very low. I have recently read that by the year 2100 in Slovenia there will be 300 thousand Slovenes, which is an extremely shocking information for me, given that there are only 2 million of us. As it is said, it is indeed an inseparable relationship with other systems, such as education, all health care, pension and disability insurance, and not least with the entire mentality of the country, which unfortunately sometimes makes it very difficult for us to move some dead spots. In this regard, the Ombudsman also pointed out similar matters to the fact that health and social care are inseparably linked. And I really hope that this transfer of responsibility has stopped and that the long-term care law at the Ministry of Health will move the issue, because we need to establish a system that is accessible, efficient and financially sustainable, based on this solidarity justice and also intergenerational solidarity, both between young and old. Let me draw attention here to some very important link between the team, which is a nurse, a doctor, and ultimately a patient, regardless of the importance of caregivers and nurses. I really agree that they need to be given a bigger role, that they should be provided with conditions and, of course, an adequate payment, of course for the work they have done. As far as prices are concerned, prices are different, that is a fact. But if I rely only on what I used to say, the area of home aid, here they have scissors and canvas in the hands of only municipalities, because the municipality is the one who chooses the provider of the service in its territory to agree on the price of the service and at the level of its subsidy affects this price of the service that the user pays. It is this regulation that will ensure the equal accessibility and accessibility of services provided under this long-term care regime. Maybe more about long-term care pilot projects. There are three: Celje, Krško, Dravograd. I have recently sat with the head of home in Dravograd and Koroška dom in this pilot project offering services in three municipalities, programs in seven municipalities in Koroška, hosting 62 homes. And there was a positive impact on all because all forms of social protection services are provided both in the home of the elderly and in the homes of individuals. By participating in this project, they want to develop new services, such as food distribution to beneficiaries and education for informal caregivers and those who offer help at home, as well as some relaxation with music in the elderly with dementia. Above all, the aim was to check the existing issues and where they could be upgraded. It is true, however, that, at the time of the implementation of this project, it has already been found that existing capacities need to be adapted – I definitely agree with this – and the lack of staff, which is clearly visible in many areas in our country in one way or another. And here I return to the linkage of the system that I was talking about before to education. We need to determine who and what we need in our education system so that we do not educate people who are unemployed and the personnel that Slovenia needs, I will not say that it does not need, but it is difficult to find its job and place in society. And, of course, as I said before, we must ensure adequate payment for appropriate work. Here I still miss the levers of those in leading positions so that those who work well can add something to their wages, and those who work badly also take it, because after all, as we see, it always starts and ends with money. With regard to the situation of the protection of the elderly, I have information – and I would ask the Ministry of Labour and the family to correct me if I happen to have the wrong information – that there are 13 000 466 places in public homes for the elderly, in private homes for the elderly with a licence of 5 000 320, in special institutions for adults 2 000 253 cities, totalling 21 000 39 cities. Those who have current requests and are interested in immediate reception are at this point around a thousand, so cities lack a thousand, and that is an irrefutable fact. I believe that this number will, of course, increase over the years if there are no premature solutions. But as I say, I believe that now these measures are really slow on the way and that these solutions will be. By 2022, some estimates would have required 2,000 more cities in terms of the situation today. One more thing about the planned measures and investments. A higher budget of 5 million a year in 2020 and 2021 is promised, which, of course, I welcome. There are, however, other solutions, such as additional means for building public houses, building new units based on the principle of public-private partnership, which is faster and more efficient, and costs the user more, providing some European funds in the next 2021-2027 and many others. I expect these funds to be gathered and used. According to the data I have, from 2007 to 2019, practically in 12 years, total investment in homes was €40 million,247 thousand, 484, which I really see as a small amount. Well, I'm sure we should put more in here to have the system we want today. As it is said, I am pleased that this increase has come back into the budget, namely 5 million a year. And the Ministry of Health has explained that it is appropriate to approach strategic objectives in planning this new long-term care system. There is no way, however, that we can talk about some of the weaknesses of the existing long-term care system, because unfortunately we do not have an existing long-term care system. But I hope we get him as soon as possible because we're late. We've been late for years. 14. 10. There was also a 31st urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where those invited to the meeting also pointed out that the situation in the homes for the elderly is not as catastrophic as in some of the current ones, but that attention must be paid to those who are in domestic care and certain services also need the law necessary and that there is a great problem, as has already been said, including human resources maintenance at home for the elderly. It is true, however, that the Secretary of State also said at that time that the National Assembly had imposed a lot of legal obligations on the Ministry in recent years, and that the funds needed to be provided. Among other things, due to the above-mentioned obligations, a large number of funds were also earmarked for social transfers. Such an increase in the long term leads to exactly what we want to avoid, namely the granting of concessions and private homes for the elderly. And I personally still believe that those who need this social transfer and some help need it, of course, should get it. But on the other hand, those who exploit the system and are part of the anomaly must be detected by the system and taken away from them by what is not theirs. And that, Your Honor, is just a policy decision. It is true that there is also a need to stick to certain commitments made in the past, including the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme, which runs out of 2020, but I still believe that there is much to be done. If I may finish. Long-term care really is not just a matter of older populations, because this long-term care and the system that we will develop can also be needed by younger ones. Look, it can happen to me today that I'm going home, that I'm involved in a car accident, that I get so badly hurt that I need this care for the rest of my life. Here, indeed, is not only the elderly but also the entire body of those who will need such long - term care for many years. The Ministry of Finance has prepared calculations on the extent of these services and the proportion of the population that will need these long-term care services. And it will indeed be necessary to choose some realistic scenario and some real source of funding. Somehow, I think it will probably be very difficult to become the whole cost of the country and that in this society, when I said before, we may have to change some thinking and participate in this long-term care of our youth. A review of foreign countries shows that this contribution exists and is also voluntary and is decided by a relatively large majority of the population. I am interested in whether Slovenia is ready or whether our population is willing to give money for long-term care from an early working age, if you may need it. Here there is a need for a change of mindset and I really hope that this will happen in our country once and we will contribute to the development of the system together. I'd like to quote Minister Schabedr on 28th. 8. for STA: "That long-term care is regulated so that people will receive long-term care when they need it." To conclude, I really want these measures to happen, but above all, that the policy will find strength and the right to adopt when this law is in the National Assembly. But I don't want us to talk about what they are, and even less about what we are, because some of us were not here when this was done, but, above all, what we are going to do in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the following word, and Mrs Natasa Sukič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor! Today is the day to fight poverty. 268,000 people live below the threshold of poverty, and believe me, the oldest. And today, in this round hall, we are somehow all united that something needs to be done in this segment when we talk about the elderly when we talk about long-term care. Yesterday, Marian Pojbič said at the meeting, we've been sitting in this room for 24 hours, let's talk it over. Hold on, and I think we can do this. Let us bear in mind that the SDS will not make a constitutional charge to the President of the Government on the basis of a fiscal rule, give additional money to the Ministry of Labour and Health, and, secondly, we will get a social consensus among everyone in this country, among the policy that in the long-term care it will be necessary for each of us, every citizen who is active, to give some euros out of his pocket in a solid way for us to have this long-term care. But, no, because politics is that we bet each other that we're making up, that we're misleading and so on. The first part, which I must demarcate immediately, today's meeting was not intended to care for people, for the elderly, but for the opposition's colleagues to slap those who were sitting at the Ministry and to read the Court's position and interpret the Court of Auditors by spending 74 million on studies in this country. I already said yesterday that if the Ministry of Labour in this country has spent 74 million on studies in ten years without having to criminally incriminate all those who signed this, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health should be put out. You know what 74 million is for paper? That's, like, 35 trucks to me. Some of these studies must be stored somewhere. The Court of Auditors must have seen where that money went, whose institutions picked it up and so on. Of course not. And since you're still deceiving, you're still deceiving, you're still saying that 74 million money was spent on studies, I'm just going to read to you what happened yesterday, otherwise, after my two-time request, a representative of the Court of Auditors said. He said: “I would not take responsibility for collecting our messages in public. I can't do that. I take responsibility for how it is recorded in the audit report. What about the public and or the policy of doing what we have written, but this or that responsibility cannot be assumed?" In short, it's meant for and not spent. The resources spent on some studies were €69 000. This was done by some social institute, and that's all visible. And you're gonna do it, and you're gonna do it, and you're gonna do it, and you're gonna do Second thing you should say. If you are already reading the audit report, then you must find that no policy has done anything, not the Dark Cop, not the current Minister, not Mr Vizjak, not Mrs Cotman, not Mr Svetlik. And these certainly weren't all SD ministers? They were little Desus, they were little of yours, they were of New Slovenia, they were now little of the SMC, now of the LMŠ. Of course, it's nice to talk when you don't have a minister. It's that other minister's fault. Your minister's got nothing to do with it. Between you and me, my dears, we're gonna have to make a deal. It's all politics. We need to set priorities in this country. I already said yesterday, when we were in power, there was Svetlik, who was a member of Desus, then went bankrupt every day. We were saving jobs, we were solving social problems in a country that were not on the pensioners' side, but also on the workers' side. Mark, you can talk, up, down, but you know, you were also in executive, you were in court, and you know what happened at the time, you were doing well, just like we were doing well when we ruled, but there wasn't as much money as now, it was significantly less. SMC told us earlier, I'm being very honest, but in his previous term as Prime Minister of the Government, he had a lot of ideas about what Anja Kopač Dark should do. Now he's got a secretary to work with and let him do it. But we always have ideas when we're not in power, and when we don't have ministers. That's when we have ideas. But when we have scissors and linen, then it's impossible. Demography is not only a problem of Slovenia, it is a problem of Europe. We're a society that grows old. I said yesterday and I say, I think it's even positive, thank God we live longer. The problem is how we can ensure that those people, or those who will live longer, will survive beyond the quality of those ten years. This is important. And yes, they can do a lot of study for me, but I, when I'm among people, I know what Nick said, people want to be home. People don't want to go home. The old man wants to be at home on his couch so his friends come to him to come, thank God, if they have them, relatives to him. We have to make this possible. But there are people who can't, they don't have relatives, they have to go home. But we have this problem today, my dear - why are there homes full? Yes, the fact is, Marijan Pojbič here also said that we did not build them, but there is another, we fill 40% of the homes with people we bring directly from hospitals. That's the problem. I would just agree with what Marjan said yesterday, although, in his own way, politics will have to decide, you will have to say, we will not always talk about the fiscal rule, when it does not suit us, we will all have to say together, this is a priority, and if this is the priority of resolution, in this case the demographics of age in this country, we will have to spend more money here and we will also have to resent sometimes a little Europe because some countries are doing their own thing. The Italians may have no idea how many downs in their budget, and the French, some others, we just have to stick to fiscal rules, all problems, but our people have problems. Sometimes we have to say, look, there are only two million of us, and some things we will save ourselves, even if we don't respect any maastrichts or any things. My dears, not just pointing fingers at one, it's all our fault. We all had some ministers, and then we didn't do anything because there were other priorities, other problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Natasa Sukić, to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! What exactly are we arguing about? On the poor recommendations of the Court of Auditors. About the recommendations made on the basis of some serious review of the situation, we are arguing here and going with some resentment that points to someone with a finger. It's a recommendation. If we took immediate action, we would make it easier for the elderly to live in nursing homes because we know exactly what is going on that should not be happening. It happens that they overpay services, pay services twice and that there are large differences in prices between privately owned homes and those in the public network at home. But no, respectable and respected, we are not capable of consensus either in such simple matters as a few simple measures and following the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Yesterday's debate on the Committee has clearly shown how the fundamental structural problem is, in fact, when we touch on the problems of the elderly. In terms of content, where everyone should actually be united. When I listen to these nice words, we are all united as to how to approach, but then when it comes to politics, it gets divorced. Regardless of our political color, we should be united, but we remain crucified, and even so, as the Court of Auditors recommends, please. Let such alarms ring, things seem to stay the same. Under the pretext of the demographic crisis, further contraction, decommissioning and privatisation of the public pension system is justified. How to read the draft budget for the years 2020 and 2021, where there is, in other words, no means of building a home for the elderly. So how are we supposed to read this? And we should all read the book Simone de Beauvoir Age, which recently came into my hands. Above all, we policy makers should read it in order to understand all the dimensions when we talk about older people's issues. In fact, age is subordinated to social disintegration and is a first-class political and cultural issue and subject to ideological speculation, and this is not a matter for discussion. Our relationship with age and age is internally linked to the power ratio in society and is class defined. And as the author says: "The old man is the periphery of the human condition, he is not recognized and no one recognizes himself in it." And that's a fact, we can say anything here. If you really understood the words written by this theorist, you would otherwise have stepped up and had a consensus on such things here today. In the past, which was thoroughly analysed by the author, there were also companies that respected age, such as China at the time of Confucius, and on the other hand, there is nothing encouraging about this period in human life today. Unfortunately, we too are constantly hearing about the ageing of the population and the elderly, who are expected to become more expensive and social burdens or another market niche more than we see in the case of elderly people in nursing homes. The country has opened up a market where it should not be. The introduction of market logic and the absence of public policies and resources has led to an increasingly shameful business for older people instead of public services. And we've talked about this a lot yesterday, and we keep moving around here and doing various analyses, moving this situation into the future, moving timetables again and again from year to year. We need to ask ourselves why psychiatric hospitals are becoming emergency herbs for the elderly and the disabled. The answer is clear because institutional capacity is limited and other types of community assistance and support services in local environments are poorly developed. As a result, older people are increasingly travelling to psychiatric care, such as the psychiatric hospital Idrija, which makes it clear that they are increasingly being treated with dementia associated with mental and behavioural disorders, which cannot live alone, and there are simply no single beds in nursing homes. It is important to ask why the country has completely neglected the provision of care for the elderly, evidence of low, shamefully low pensions, a high level of risk of poverty among the elderly, the high costs of institutional and non-institutional care for the elderly, and the 11 000 470 older people who are currently waiting for vacancies in the homes of older citizens. These are the ones who signed up, not now selling me stories about how all the elders want to stay home. Eleven thousand 470 thousand are those who are waiting for this moment, who are reported standing in line. So they want home care or some other alternative form, like, in these community homes or whatever. By granting concessions to private companies and by setting up regulations that allow for the creation of profits by carrying out activities to care for the elderly, the State has opened up a market where it should not absolutely be. The introduction of market logic and the absence of public policies is what should concern us most at this moment. The question needs to be asked, and really, how can we accept the misery that poor old people live in as a society and ignore the problems they face. Ignoring them clearly shows insubordination to this Court of Auditors report and insubordination in order that this moment may immediately be able to radically improve, at least some of the standards, and later work on a long-term care law in some significant way. We don't really need the law to fix the situation right now. If I somehow rely again on Simone de Beauvoir: “This is the actual crime of our society.” and the author continues: “Old age policy is scandalous, as is the scandalous way most people are treated both in their youth and in their mature years.” End of story. It is true and I must agree with the Court of Auditors, at a time when as many as 11 000 470 elderly people are waiting for a vacant seat at the home of older citizens, at the time of the literal collapse of the long-term care system, the Government for the pilot projects of the non-institutional care of the elderly has allocated EUR 74.5 million of European funds, so that nothing would be wrong with me seeing clearly the financial cut, the financial structure where these European funds will go, in which specific projects will go. We have heard on several occasions that some of these community units will be built in Primorsk, Koroška, Primorska 70 cities, Koroška 70 cities and 30 other residential units. How many beds is that? It's 200, say, under some optimistic scenario or 170? I don't know, 11,000 470 waiting. Moreover, there is no funding in the new draft budget for the construction of homes for the elderly. And now that we're running out of cities. Therefore, we will not build one home for the elderly, nor will we acquire one new bed - or if it goes to the words of the minister, that it is intended for two times five million, I think. We can't find this item anywhere in Levika, and let's just try so hard and smash our heads. But even if it's two times five million, we wonder how many homes we're going to build with two times five million. Are we going to treat two, get 200, 300 new beds capacity for accommodation? Why wouldn't these 74,5 million go into building these community units specifically for this money, which would allow people to be installed not only twice 70 plus 30 housing units, but also specifically for these people. 74.5 million is a lot of money, and that's why we're very interested in this place, and that's why the Court of Auditors is also very interested in it, what is the financial structure, what is the cut of this 74.5 million, where this money is going to go, specifically where. On behalf of transparency, it is necessary to say this clearly and loudly, to show us to Members and Members and to the general public. I therefore, of course, believe that the Court of Auditors correctly considers that the amount of 74,5 million is disproportionate compared to the necessary resources to ensure the lack of capacity. So let us, fellows and colleagues, not be misled. Yes, we can say, as Simone de Beauvoir has already found, today politics is as scandalous as it was 50 years ago when the author wrote it down or even more so. It is up to us, honourable Members and Members, to either continue to allow policy towards the old to continue to be scandalous, or we will take action, to find consensus in the simplest things under the sun. To listen to the Court of Auditors, which is not just someone, but is the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not fabricate things that are recommended on the basis of the audit, to unify, support and immediately withdraw some measures that can improve the situation of the elderly in nursing homes, and then, with the common strong, deal with the new long-term care law in a uniform way and be finally adopted in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Jelka Godec, and Mr Jože Lenart is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. We have, of course, heard from the coalition that this meeting is counterproductive, that we are neither proactive nor productive, that we convene meetings on the basis of some Court of Auditors audit reports and so on. Yes, I expect members of the coalition to become finally productive, proactive, to propose laws that will not just go anywhere, to propose recommendations to the government, conclusions that will help to, say, move other points away from this, I will say, suffer positions. But that is not the case today. You are sitting in Parliament completely nothing active and somehow it seems, but I have also said this on the committee, on both sides, on health care and at work, that the government is simply holding you in check. And without Parliamentarians or you overseeing the Government, giving them suggestions, recommendations and so on, not the Government is simply preventing you from doing your active work. And as she said, I think the colleague is just ahead of me, that it would be wise to jointly support the audit report, so that something will finally move in this area as well, to move the area of long-term care, to acknowledge that this audit report is a criticism to the governments back. So the LMŠ has no problem supporting this, since you were not in the government. Because it's a back review. And let's say okay, this is the criticism behind the back, the audit report said, the recommendations are like this, let's just tell the government now to take these recommendations into account, as our audit report does, and move things around. No, but you put yourself on a stand, if you don't, and we won't tell our government what to do, because they're so proactive. The funniest side of SD is. The SD, despite the fact that this area has been in their possession since 2010, if I may say so, speak today, let's do something, do something you in the opposition do. I don't know how long you've been sitting in the government. Don't let the opposition talk now, let's do something. You do something! Last night, former Minister Kopacheva said she was doing something, but it didn't work. Did you help her then? Did you help her in her previous term to get this over with? Not in your previous mandate, you've done a good job, you've moved on to the Ministry of Health. And then SMC appears, which in the previous term defended, of course, Milojka Kolar Celarc, how well she works, today talks about how health care works, how nothing is done on long-term care and, of course, advocates the Ministry of Labour, because they are just completely, I'll say, stuck to both eyes and covered your ears, eyes and defend how it was. [[…]] And because of that, it's gonna keep things going the way they've been going until today. Why, as they have done today, because you do not recognize the Court of Auditors' audit report, which nicely writes you what and how, not the recommendations proposed by the opposition, but at the same time ask us to do something. And when we do something, you say we're just chimphs and we're counterproductive. You are quite contradictory in your statements. So we want something to go on, we suggest, and you say what we're going to do here. But the next thing that's actually completely wrong today is what's going on. We are discussing the audit report, or the purpose of 74 million, for which the Court of Auditors has found that, in their view, it is disproportionately much money to test the new system. So disproportionate to what needs are. Today, you are all saying how poor the elderly are and how much home is needed because today is not the point at all. [[…]] We could talk about this on November 8, because for that time we had convened a meeting on long-term care before this was called. And now you're just saying other things, clean of others. It is important that the country has spent 74 million in ten years on projects that have not yet been implemented and that the deadlines have expired or are in implementation and are questionable targets, indicators and results. And, of course, third, the question of what will be the result. And as I said on the committee yesterday, today we speak by coalition Members, and those who have been in the government for a very long time, that we still do not know what the criteria and criteria for admission to institutions are, that there are no standards of care in nursing homes, that there is no need for social welfare standards in nursing homes, that there are no criteria and criteria for the classification of users of institutional protection of individual categories of persons, that there is no staff and so on and that this needs to be resolved now. That's been going on for 10 years. For 10 years there have been working groups that are supposed to solve this, and now new faces find out, wait a minute, and we have to figure it out now, and then we can keep doing this. And that's what 74 million in 10 years is for. But what bothers me most is that when you talk about long-term care, you only talk about the elderly. Long - term care is needed not only by the elderly but by anyone who cannot carry out his normal and lifelong activities because of sickness, accident, chronic diseases, and so on. But of course, for some it's good to talk about the elderly, because it's just a sensitive, most sensitive age group, besides, of course, children. We are talking about long - term care as such, so that younger ones can also need it. Pilot projects for which 74 million are earmarked are expected to help us finally get the end of the long-term care law. And the Court of Auditors finds that the deadlines have already expired and that these projects, which were somehow at this 74 million, are not being implemented as they should be. And if you go to see the resolution on the national healthcare plan 2016-2025, it was adopted 2016, contains Chapter 6.2.9 Long-term care, where specific objectives are set out, which are specific objectives in the area of long-term care, which are indicators and timeframes. Specific objectives in this area are two: equal access to quality and safe care as close to the population as possible, the first and the main objective being to amend legislation or to adopt a law on long-term care and personal assistance published in the Official Journal. Long-term Supply Act, 2016 Time Framework The man takes a deep breath and remembers that year 2016, and I must tell you that both interpretations for Mrakova Kopač and Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc have already been fully justified by this title. Today – how old is this? And we're going to find out next year, for 4 years, that there's still no law. And if nothing else, those interpretations were justified by that exact title. The adopted resolution, which came from these ministries, 2016 confirmed in the National Assembly, has always been an objection to this resolution, writes the long-term supply of 2016, which is the umbrella law. And then yesterday, the Ripper of the Dark One says, we've already done 2013 and the government has fallen. And said Milojka Kolar Celarc right behind her, we did everything, we put the law into public hearing, and the government fell. Now, if this goes in third, I don't know, but in third, the government is happy to fall before there's a long-term online supply, will the government go down - or what? On 10 June 2019, Minister Šabeder presented to Brdo pri Kranj all coalition members, partners, I do not know who was there, I was not there, on page 77, the document is quite extensive, point 1 Long-term care, the proposal for a long-term supply law submitted to the Government in November 2019, this was June 2019. Then Minister Šabeder comes to the parliamentary group a little after that, I think he was in all the parliamentary groups, presenting his priorities. The first priority, of course, is long-term care. According to the timetable, the public debate is expected to take place in August 2019, the preparation of a proposal for government material, inter-resort coordination in October 2019. That's probably what you're doing right now. You're inter-resortating a long-term care law. Me? Then, the intervention of government material in handling to the Government, November 2019. But yesterday, the secretary said that this law would be 20 April 2020. Now you tell me who's easier in this country. Who in this country is lying? All the ministers before now, at least. Now you are nodding to believe that the long-term supply law is in inter-departmental coordination. Okay. Then tell me why you still have a pilot project in progress that will lay the groundwork for the long-term care law. Look, stop deceiving the Slovenian public, stop deceiving Members, because you do not have long-term care in interdepartmental coordination, you will not have it for a while. First of all, you have to pass the Health and Health Insurance Act. First of all, you have to figure out how much money people will spend on long-term care, because that's the problem. When you agree on this, then you will talk about it, because you probably already have the content written by the Dark Digger, but it changes a little bit, but since this same government is all the time, I don't know why Milojka Kolar Celarc had to write a new law, now the LMŠ new law writes again, because you are the same industry, you have the same thoughts, you have the same priorities. The problem is money. I don't know how many times now Minister Schabeder has lied about whether he lied to the coalition or the MPs, or whether you lied yesterday or today when you nod that he's in interdepartmental coordination. And that's also the problem when someone doesn't finally say it to the government, in the country says, look, the law will be, when we sit down with the finance minister, or all the ministers, when the coalition sits down, when we agree on the money, then we can talk about it, and well, something else will probably have to be coordinated. This law on long-term care is a problem, including the things that colleagues have talked about today, about long-term care, why certain things are not. This is a problem because it is a system law, and this 74 million is also linked because some money was meant to establish that a long-term care law would be at the root of it. I already told you yesterday, what you're saying, if, the Court of Auditors is deceiving, we have all the projects done in the right way, and the Court of Auditors has told you that you are late on time. And it is true that you are late because after the resolution you have everything that will be completed 2016, for example, the information point to be completed 2016, and on your website it says, “information support for the implementation of the long-term care system in preparation”. You haven't even started a case yet. Then, the adaptation and transformation of existing institutional protection networks and the entry of new operators and so on, the project, which is also in 74 million, is in preparation. Here you have it written in 2016. Then a model of long-term care in the community, in progress. That's all over the years. And now I am interested in something, 74 million, there are also 80% of European funds, and if the Court of Auditors finds that the deadlines are expired, that there are no known indicators or results, what the European Commission will then find. Since this money, the use of these funds on these projects will, of course, also be checked by the European Funding Commission. Are you going to say to them, "No, you know what, you're making up a little bit, we did it all. We have filled our hands." You didn't, the website tells you you didn't, after everything you've written. Then the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour for 56 million, expands almost 57 million of these funds from 74. The government gives us a specification of these projects, I think it was prepared by the Ministry of Labour, and all these projects are in preparation. The Community centre Nova Gorica in preparation, setting up appropriate conditions in preparation, networking of social services in preparation, modernisation of mobile units to support organisations in preparation. At least two or three are in conclusion, but one is supposed to be 11. 10th invitation to tender 2019 It's all in preparation. The deadlines in the strategies, however, were long overdue, so they were already in 2018 at the latest that it was necessary to do so. I would like to ask, Madam Secretary from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour: How will you defend these deadlines before the European Commission? Or I am wrong, but say, no, it is not true, the resolution is misleading; what we have on the website is also wrong; everything counts as it should. Because I don't know, I say if the Court of Auditors finds out what the European Commission is going to say. All these projects, which have yet to be prepared, in particular at the Ministry of Health, should bring the starting point, once again, for the long-term care law. And you're painting me here today, according to your homework, saying that you have shelter in inter-departmental coordination, but you don't have completed projects yet, these projects are designed to prepare the law. Please Secretary, you have plenty of time to tell Members here: Where, at what stage is this law, where, at what stage are these projects, what, when will the projects be completed, and what will be their results? Tell us clearly and loudly here, at what stage is the law on long-term care. Because when the next government comes, when you come to the meeting, when there will be no long-term care, you will say, we did everything, only the government fell, as the two former ministers said. In addition, this is a sensitive topic and I would expect ministers to sit here with Minister Šabeder and Minister Klampferov. I have not seen Minister Šabedr on the Health Committee for how long or only when oral questions are raised. And I don't think the darkness is easy. That is what everyone has said today, even though they avoid these 74 million, they talk only about long - term care and poor elderly people. But the topic is the Court of Auditors, and the topic is not simple. We demand answers from ministers and it is sad and shameful that ministers do not sit here today. But from the secretaries, I'm asking for an answer, because if I'm wrong, I'm gonna say, okay, so the projects are running, everything's gonna be okay. But now give me this assurance. As you said yesterday, 20 April 2020 long-term care on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Does anyone from the government want to answer or continue? If not, then the next Joze Lenart is ready for Yuri Pretty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear fellows! Yes, but they did not build any home at the time from the budget spent 74.5 million euros. For studies, €74.5 million has been lost. This is how the proponent and the media have come to the public, and this is what we have been reading and monitoring for the last month. I wonder if that was necessary and why it was necessary. This may have been the case for some. Yes, I also ask because of the caregivers themselves who are accompanying it, who are reading it, because of the pensioners, because of all of us, and especially because of those employees in these homes who are doing what we have today, who are doing very well, and they are also working on these pilot projects. Please remember this because they are following us all the time, and they are listening to us today. Look, I know all four homes in Koroška very well. Home of the elderly in Montenegro, which has a business unit in Slovenj Gradc, home of the elderly in Prevalje and home of Hmelin in Radlja, which is in concession. In the last five years, I have been particularly monitoring this area, and believe me, during all this period, these homes have received numerous awards for innovation, and they have also been awarded by the Economic Chamber. And the home of the elderly of Črneče is with the business unit Slovenj Gradec in this pilot project not from these funds 74 million, but from another source, which was already intended. And yes, today I very much want the National Assembly to take us to this house to see it, and then perhaps we could debate it a little easier than we do today. This is where we speak populistally. You don't know who to believe anymore. One is the media. A colleague of Jelka Godec says today that all hands are expired. We've missed everything, but we've heard very real things from both ministries. In the end, someone needs to be trusted, somewhere is the truth. And I believe it's being monitored, and we know it. Earlier it was said by a colleague that this home of the elderly in Montenegro, which is in the pilot project, is visited by many other homes, not only from Slovenia, also from Croatia, from Austria, because their work, their content, which they have made, is so good that they are interested in at home and abroad. As a result of these practices, these visits are then made in these homes to get to know them. The house in Slovenj Gradec celebrated 11 years on 1 October with such results and I was with them, and I also had an address. Tomorrow, the home of the elderly in Montenegro celebrates 40 years. Unfortunately, I cannot go because the board meeting will be here in the National Assembly, but I think someone from the Ministry is going there, and I think he has a speech because the ministries are monitoring their work. And once again, today they're listening to what we're saying, how everything sucks, how everything's falling apart, and they're not doing anything, and that's sad. They're sad about what we're saying, and the projects are running. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Or you can wait for me to say mine and then speak when you get the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u43	Peace in the hall, please! The speaker has the floor. Marian, the speaker has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u44	This house in Montenegro celebrates 130 years at home tomorrow, the shelter was 130 years ago, even during the time of Mary Teresa, when the home was called Franz Joseph. This practice is said to be very long in this area. Today we need to know how it progressed in this area, where they were when it was practical to survive, where we are today. I'm not gonna talk about it anymore, but I'm just gonna tell you one more story. Three years ago I had one good opportunity, and at one celebration I met Slovenka, who runs a home in Sweden, the head of this house is, and of course I was interested, but I was not here at the National Assembly at the time, but also because I was following up this work. The lady told me when I asked that those who came to the house had two to three thousand euros to pay. I said, "How can they even pay their own?" He says, "The costs are three times higher." That's what they say, this relationship is similar up there, but it's a completely different situation. I told you how they could do it. And he says, "Keep thinking, it's tradition." [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Time's up. Jelka Godec, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u46	Comrade Lenart, now tell me one Member who said today that homes are doing badly, that people in there are incapable of saying anything through homes, caregivers, suppliers or anyone here today. Call me one now. You can't because no one said that. [[advertising from the hall]] And he can take it when there's a time-sharing. Let's have one call back to see what I was saying today, because you mentioned it. I talked about seeing first the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025. See the publication of the projects of the Ministry of Health on the website. Take a look at the Government's response to our recommendations. Then you're talking about projects that are or are not overrun. That's evidence, too. Then take it into your hand if you can’t get all of those hundred and a few pages of the Court of Auditors, see the infographics in which it says, “74 million euro has been earmarked exclusively for the preparation and testing of a new long-term care system with a focus on community care. The country will spend a disproportionate amount of money on testing the new system, while the need for beds remains unsatisfactory.” That's what we're talking about today. And because of this 74 million, maybe there could be better conditions if you put that money in your homes, you could have more personnel, you could have lower care. That's what we're talking about today. And no one criticizes those people who provide 51 people instead of one who work overtime, who work late hours, who work for minimum wage in their homes, and talk about how poor conditions are for their work, and work with their soul and heart. And nobody talks about these people! But he is talking about a country that has not moved forward in the long run for so many years, and he admits that today. And that's what we're admitting today. That's what we're talking about today, Comrade Lenart. Nobody says homes do bad things. I didn't say it myself. And I don't think any of my colleagues, nor the proponent here or here at the counter, have said that. No one's ever said that since the coalition. Don't talk about embarrassing homes. We're talking about disproportionate means. About whether these funds were well-purposed or not. The Court of Auditors finds that no. That's what we're talking about. And where all that money could go. Again, don't say things that aren't real.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Member Yuri Leprechaun has the floor and will be followed by Mr Soniboj Knežak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u48	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! My debate will go in this direction to take care of the elderly. I think that, even from us, no one in the coalition has ever said that we do not want to, and that this debate, which we have today on the boards on Monday, is not welcome. It is necessary, it is necessary, so it is also right to discuss. The reason for this debate today is that the Court of Auditors has reached its conclusions in the review of both ministries. That's why we're here today and nothing's wrong. And the Court of Auditors' decision, which it is, is to be respected. It is also right that we respect the fact that ministries will have time to respond for 90 days. Then we can say a little more about whether it was in place or not. Certainly, I myself think or am sure of how much I have read, because I have certainly not read all the report, but others, 74 million euros are ready for soft projects, because the 2014-2020 perspective did not allocate the funds from this title to build a home. This is the basis, and I conclude that they are not used, as has already been said on several sides, we have spent around €69 000 and around €2 million at the Ministry of Health. I might be focusing here on caring for the elderly. We all talk, and we have public institutions, and we have private institutions. I remember back in 2006, as we all know, we didn't build any old people's homes, but then there was a big problem. We had problems in the local community with people who wanted to go home, but they weren't home. That's why the state allowed private houses to be built with concessions. Whether it's right or wrong - that's when I, as mayor, defended it. We also had major problems in our administrative unit Ruše, our story was that we were the only ones in Slovenia who did not receive concessions to build a home for the elderly. We don't have that concession right now. Will he be building a private or public office? There's no shortcut. I see a solution to this problem in that existing public institutions expand their activity and that even within these homes we start building, I will say, not new homes, but expanding them. I see here the only option, because then there will be all the joint services, there will be a joint laundry, there will be joint leadership, directors. This is one thing in which we can save something in the future. But I am sure that maybe everything from 2006 onwards, if the state did not allow home with a concession, would have had major problems at the time, so then that was the decision and I think it was the right one. However, we can go back to asking why the state did not then say or even local communities to limit the resources that these institutions can charge to the user. We agree, now, as stated in this report, from the Court of Auditors, there are 28% more expensive prices. Of course, this is uncomparable, it is actually too much, so we can say that we will have to monitor these activities more closely in the future. Whether it is an inspection or a new law that will actually limit the price to a large extent. But logically, I'm not personally in favour of a public-private partnership. I'm public or I'm private. Because if the local community or Slovenia and one private person were to be financed together, then two interests were separate and certainly wrong. At this point, I am in a dilemma, if I was 14, 15 years ago to grant concessions to build a home for the elderly in private ownership, I am now at the border to actually change that. We all learn, we all think differently, and now I don't know. It is certain, however, that the country, in its perspectives, should make sure that in its tasks, we make more resources available for the care of the elderly in the future. Unfortunately, we're an ageing society, we all find that, but we have to change that in our heads to say, the priority of our society is that people of old can live normally. Sooner or later, this will have to be determined because, as we know, the data was that 0.05 % of the gross social product in Slovenia is intended for the care of the elderly, some in Europe already 1-2 and more percent of the gross social product. In this direction, we will have to expand our thinking, and if we do so, we will certainly be able to build new homes for the elderly. Nevertheless, I also advocate all other activities, help at home, day care centers, and can help these stories to reduce the pressures on homes. As it has been said, I have been thinking, and I also know that most people from rural areas do not want to go to their homes, they want to be at home, or they want to be close to home. This is some thing that's very complex, and we should take all the possibilities together that the state has to deal with. However, we will have to increase the homes of the elderly, and we will have to build. And this observation or this idea, this clear statement, is, as colleague Han said, that we give people directly from hospitals to the homes of the elderly, and then these homes have no capacity, they don't even have health personnel to care about. In this direction, I think we need to take care of and in the meantime make a distinction, one thing will be either these day-to-day security centers or such departments that will take care of those who are unable to care for themselves in the long term. You know that we have five groups in which all the elderly are classified according to the possibility that they can carry out. Group one, where there are actually people who live purely normal, they don't need any help, they just need food, a place to stay, and they hang out, and then all the other things get worse. However, health care is certainly provided for the elderly in their homes, so this is the only option that we can give to elderly people who are less able to survive. But then we talked about perspective 2021-2027. And our country, too, we Members need to agree and ask our negotiators in Europe to provide in this perspective funds specifically intended for the construction of old people's homes and not just for some things that are beyond that. The fact is that it is now impossible to build new homes with these funds. That's what I made sure of. For us, and for our members from Desus personally, it is, above all, that, in view of the fact that we are talking a lot, we must certainly ensure what we are all talking about – a safe and fair age and that they will spend their days in certain normal situations. And here too, I think that the perspective of our country must be, if we are a social and solidarity state, that we will ensure to all those who need it so that they can go to the old people's home. Some countries are so rich, no one actually stays on the road, everyone goes to the old people's home. Well, he's got some standard he's got. And we, if you remember, in 2006 were different standards than they are now. And also because of these standards, we suddenly lost capacity, which is also right. And I say, if you've reached some level of standard for people, it's only right to keep it, not because we are now, because we are what we are, but we're going to lower our standards. I'm against it. But the fact is, at the time, it was possible to have four people in nursing homes, somewhere five, in the hallways, and now the law requires a maximum of two, and that's right. So if we go on like this, it certainly happens that we can say that we've done what we've done. I can also say that I think that in the homes of the elderly, everything is really not as bad as anyone imagines. I've been to visit, too, and I've been around a lot. Things are good, and people who work there have their salaries. They do have a very bad salary. I think 800 Euros has a nurse who takes care of people and has 50. This is impossible to endure from this point of view. But nevertheless, ladies, most of them are women, smiling, having good will, and giving you some hope that things aren't so bad. Our job is to provide these people with a payment that will suit their work. If they can have other payments in the west, across the border in Austria, how is that possible? In short, ours are going up, and we need to make sure that they are here because of the work they have, and some additions that can be made so that we do not break the public wage system. In fact, we could tell her and also show our company and them that we want to do something for them and for our elderly. I think the debate is in the right place. However, 74 million euros have not been spent and cannot be spent on building the old people's home. This is a basic matter for me that I can conclude from this. So, as far as I am concerned, the Court of Auditors made a very similar analysis in 2008 and now in 2019, it is said that it has taken almost 11 years into account. And look, we're almost on the same page. So you can be, like Desus, we are always in government, and we can tell ourselves that we stood in place during this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. He will be followed by Mojca Žnidarič. Even before that, the proposer made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u50	In view of the fact that there has been a three-and-a-half debate on this subject, however, I would like to focus on why we are here today, what is that basic reason for today's extraordinary meeting, of course, in addition to the wide problem of accessibility to long-term care, in particular the intention of spending EUR 74.5 million of resources, which, of course, according to the Court of Auditors' audit, is not intended for any change or need to be made in the long-term care system. Long-term care is more than just for the elderly. As some Members have been exposed to in previous debates, it is a matter of the fact that long-term care covers all those who need help in any daily tasks they cannot carry out on their own. This captures a much wider spectrum of people than just the elderly. Of course, most of them are. Given that more than three hours of this debate have passed and there has been a great deal of exposure to the implementation of the projects themselves, I would like to refer here again to the representatives of the ministry who are here today, both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, and once again call for a further clarification of the implementation of these pilot projects. Indeed, this has already been pointed out by the Court of Auditors during the audit, and some more detailed explanations have not been provided by you, including the committees, and we have already had two committees for petitions and today an extraordinary meeting, yet no explanation of what exactly you are proposing or what precise objectives you are pursuing with these pilot projects, what will be improved on the basis of their implementation with regard to the needs of the beneficiaries themselves after long-term care. Here again I would like to stress mainly €21 million, it is not clear exactly why, within the framework of the Modernisation of the Network project - what will happen, whether it will be a construction or a reconstruction, or what will happen? Then, even if they explain once, about the problems that the Court of Auditors has actually raised, that is, today is a talk about everything else, just not how you will solve the problem just not, exactly why you will spend the 74 million euros. So I would really ask, or it would be good to clear this up, to clarify it. While colleagues from the coalition today explain how these pilot projects are good and what good will be done for our citizens in the area of long-term care through the implementation of these projects, and if so, I do not see any obstacles, why not support today's proposals by the Slovenian Democratic Party and then you will have an excellent starting point to answer all our questions or then see no reason why these conclusions would not be accepted. That is exactly what we are asking you today at an extraordinary meeting, and so far, after these three hours of discussion, you have not given any answer. I expect that, at least within the next hours of the debate, any clarification will be given as to the implementation of these pilot projects for which €74.5 million has been allocated, or at least as to what the Court of Auditors has found in its audit on the shortcomings of the existing system and stationary protection. How are you going to handle this? How are you going to solve human resources malnutrition? How will you address the unfair prices you have set after the current methodology of price accounting? How will you solve the fact that users of institutional protection are essentially placed in an unequal position by the rules you now have? There was nothing to see about this in your discussions. I really appeal to you to focus on what the Audit Court has found and to adapt the content only then to this in further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Now the government's representative has been asked to speak first, first of all Mag. Urban Kryscar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope that I will reply to the honourable Members in detail. I may be a bit of a discontent at the beginning, but this is not so important to solve this common problem that we have come in these last four days, since we are in the National Assembly, on two committees and one panel to discuss that 74.5 million have been spent on various analyses and studies, and that they have not yet been used. So I hope that at least here we have closed an open or neurological point that was probably the reason for today's session. With regard to the findings of the Court of Auditors’ audit report, I have already said at the outset that we are aware of the challenges ahead of us and of the conclusion that we will be able to draw up this response report within 90 days - I think that 59 today - will be prepared as requested by the Court of Auditors, and I hope that the Court of Auditors will address and provide the answers that the Court of Auditors and, finally, the National Assembly will meet. In the meantime, I think the question has been raised why the Ministry, the Government, insists on community services. That's where you have to draw it, too. Yesterday we have already spoken, I think it has been made clear enough that the regulation adopted jointly by the Council of the EU and the European Parliament is the one which requires all Member States to exercise deinstitutional forms of protection and not institutional. At the same time, it wishes to say that the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme was adopted for the period 2013-2020, if I am not mistaken, also confirmed in this National Assembly. That's where we decided to go into deinstitutionalization. At the same time, when we are also talking about the resources we will provide, I think that the resolution states that very different resources will be used, i.e. from private to public private partnerships and, if I am not mistaken, European cohesion funds too. And last but not least, I think it was adopted in December 2014. Generally, strategic documents are the basis for the preparation, because without the adoption of strategic documents it is impossible to adopt an operational programme without which European cohesion policies cannot be implemented. And also in implementing and implementing the various cohesion policy measures, the operational programme itself sets out the objectives and results that the State must pursue, or those that are beneficiaries of these funds, and we have committed ourselves there, which objectives and indicators we will pursue. And here you may also have a response to your 30 units for 21 million, which is envisaged, specific numbers, how many will be settled in these 30 units, cannot give you, because this is a matter of invitation to tender and we do not want to limit or at this point or at this point to prejudge how the invitation to tender will be drawn up. We don't want to favour anyone. The fact is, as I said at the outset, that we are talking to different stakeholders, i.e. local communities, with homes for older people who have different needs, so someone has to buy a unit, someone has to upgrade it, someone just needs to improve it, and we don't want to favour or put anyone in an unfavourable position, so we are trying to reach out in preparing this measure as much as possible to a wide range of potential beneficiaries, which, of course, we hope, will also be able to prepare projects that will, of course, be so good that they are first confirmed and then, of course, also carried out. Perhaps now the question of the colleague, what will the European Commission ask us? Of course, we are in constant contact with the European Commission. I cannot say for 2014 - 2018 why some projects have not been implemented, but I can say that we still have a good four years of time when the European perspective ends, namely M + 3. We will direct all efforts to ensure that this money, like today's debate, is used prudently, transparently and, of course, also successfully for those who receive it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Tomaž Pliberšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u54	President, thank you for your word. We've written down five answers somewhere. The first question of the honourable Member, the Court of Auditors did not order the preparation of a response report to the Ministry of Health. The Court of Auditors made recommendations to the Ministry of Health which had already taken into account when preparing proposals for systemic solutions in the area of long-term care. Both proposals for systemic solutions and long-term care activities shall be prepared in close cooperation with the competent authorities, in particular the Ministry of Labour and Equal Opportunities. Second question about projects. Although you were talking about a project that does not belong to our department, I would still take advantage of the opportunity to describe the 23 million I have already mentioned in the opening statement. Pilot projects in the area of long-term care provide new services and also enable testing of certain solutions proposed as systemic. Projects have been ongoing for ten months and all findings are currently being implemented in the proposals for systemic solutions. In my opening address today, we have said that the Joint Ministry of Health has €23 million,676 thousand,900 for project activities. Since you wanted a little deeper nuts, we've got it ready. The project funds are mainly intended to provide direct services to users to whom citizens cannot access them under the existing regime. In particular, services in the field of unmet needs, often reflected in the increased pressure for admission to an institution. Services are free of charge during the duration of projects for beneficiaries, as we discussed very little on the Committee yesterday. I stress only the fact that the Ministry of Health, through the implementation of project activities in the area of long-term care, could not start until after the transfer of powers, that is, in 2017, when I mentioned those 10 months earlier. So it's three things. First, in 2017, a project on long-term care in the community was launched with EUR 4 million and aims to standardise training for providers of formal, informal care, the implementation of training for different stakeholders, the external evaluation of project activities, the coordination of activities between pilot environments and the establishment of information support for system support for long-term care processes. The project will be implemented by the end of 2022. The second content relates to the implementation of pilot projects that will support the transition to the implementation of the Long-term Supply Act, which has been in progress since 2018. The invitation to tender was published in April 2018 and the provision of services will continue until the end of June 2020. The total value of the project is 6 million 100,000. It is performed in three environments: Dravograd, Kršek and Celje. The project also testes some of the solutions that are the subject of proposals for systemic solutions, stressing in particular that new services are also provided under this project, which citizens cannot access under existing home arrangements. If I list only some, this is the provision of medicines, storage by probes, psychosocial support services to users and owners, services to strengthen and maintain independence as well as e-services. From January to September 2019, 148 applications were submitted to the entry point for the assessment of eligibility for long-term care. A thousand 312 persons were assessed as eligible for new services under the projects, on 1. 9. 2019, new services were received free of charge by 287 persons. The third content is the project to adapt and transform existing institutional protection networks and the entry of new providers for the provision of service communities and programmes for older people, the launch of field activities in 2020. The call for a project for which €13 million is earmarked for €173,000 900 was announced in June 2019 and the funds have not yet begun to be drawn up. In this project too, the aim is to provide a range of unmet needs in the community that beneficiaries will also be able to receive free of charge under this project. In this project, we also place particular emphasis on persons with dementia and support for their family members, reducing bureaucratic burdens in the work processes, strengthening the entry of different profiles and the provision of services, and thus strengthening the ability of citizens to stay as long as possible in the home environment and to improve or maintain the psychophysical capacity as long as possible and thus to increase the capacity to provide self-sustainment. As I have already stated in the opening speech, each project has clearly defined monitoring indicators in its call, and its implementation is not subject to the self-control of project operators themselves, the control of the Ministry, not least the control of the public, but also the control of the Government's Development and Cohesion Policy Service, the European Commission's budgetary control offices, if only a key consideration. If you remember, I also said that I would like to reiterate that the Ministry of Health did not allocate resources for long-term studies of long-term care during the revised period. Third thing, a little bit more about the Long-Term Care Act. The proposals for systemic solutions in the area of long-term care go in the direction of links and upgrading existing arrangements, because we have many things, as I said, in Slovenia that are good. It is also aimed at following the international definition of long-term care, which is defined in accordance with the international definition of the health account system as “a number of services or rights that are needed by persons who, due to illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period, depend on the assistance of others in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks.” If I raise only some of the key proposals for a new system regime, I would particularly stress the establishment of a single entry point, both to facilitate access by all stakeholders to information on health, social protection and long-term care, as well as to carry out a single assessment of eligibility for long-term care. Secondly, the introduction of a single assessment scale that will allow individuals to be evaluated in the same way and consequently access comparable rights for comparable needs. Provision of a set of services that will be tailored to the needs of users in planning and implementation, with the user being an active partner placed at the centre. Support to informal care providers, who are often overlooked today, and their work for both the individual and society is extremely important. An effective network of providers of formal care for operators in Community institutions and operators. Effective public oversight and establishment to provide quality and security services. Ensuring a higher share of public funds and burdening users, their relatives and local communities for the payment of services in periods when they can no longer take care of themselves alone. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with other departments, continues the necessary activities to prepare the bill, with the aim of following up on the commitments of the coalition agreement. In accordance with the 2019 regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, April 2020 is set as the deadline for the adoption of the long-term supply law. I have already stressed the latter today, as well as yesterday on the committee, so the law is in technical coordination within the body, which you Members have also repeated today in the debate that I also said this on the committee yesterday. With regard to the timeline presented by the esteemed Minister in Brdo and the parliamentary groups, I also explained yesterday on the committee that there was a delay, which you sincerely welcomed and in fact offered all cooperation, particularly constructively. The question concerning the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme 2013-2020, adopted by the National Assembly in 2013, is still valid. It directs us to change the relationship between users of Community social protection forms and users of institutional forms of social protection or to increase the share of users of social forms and reduce the share of users of institutional forms of social protection. The absence of access to integrated services in the community is also reflected in greater pressure on institutional protection, which occurs despite the average number of beds. In Slovenia we have 51.7 beds capacity in the area of long-term supply per thousand inhabitants. The average in OECD countries is 49.7. It is crucial to plan future solutions to respond to the needs of citizens, to be accessible and accessible, and to enable citizens who are no longer able to take care of themselves to have a choice between different forms of services and rights that will be more financed from public resources. Moreover, in the context of staff, it is worth saying that the Ministry of Health in 2018 has shown by data that in older people's homes, most of them are employed to provide direct health workers who are financed by public funds for the provision of health services. These health workers are often overtaken by the provision of services paid by users from their pockets, as the social part of the services is not adequate for staff standards. It is also true that the concept of systemic solutions in the area of long-term care combines health and social health personnel whose funding is largely provided for from public sources. The data also show that in the field of health care, especially at the level of pre-graduate education, compared to other OECD countries, we have an average number of staff. The shortage of health and social protection personnel is global. Most countries face this challenge. We have a quality education system in Slovenia, so we need to do more in this area, with the help of appropriate promotions and recognized role of these professions, appropriate remuneration and the creation of quality working conditions in Slovenia and the profession. The necessary activities include a wide range of stakeholders, from different ministries, employers and educators as well as employees in all professions. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The proposer gets the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u56	I will say that I have been hearing from colleagues and representatives of the government all the time that these funds have not been spent. No one said they were used, but they were meant to be used. And if you're going to spend it, I suppose you'll spend it too. Because if you do not use them, you have harmed citizens for these funds under European cohesion funds in order to invest in any more necessary forms or institutions or anything else. So it's a matter of perceiving that it hasn't been used yet. You're obviously planning on spending your money. And here, the Court of Auditors reminds you of the usefulness of this dedicated spending, given what you have invested in the long-term care arrangements as such so far, and why you intend to spend these EUR 74.5 million. With regard to the forms of society which the State has obviously decided to implement them in an accelerated manner, contrary to institutional protection, although the needs show otherwise. I guess the secretary at the Ministry of Labour and I didn't get it exactly. I said that I did not ask him about the forms of society only in the context of the implementation of these projects, I understood that, in the context of the content of the operational programmes, given the current financial perspective, the latter is not possible. Why is that not possible? We were not so skilled and did not negotiate when the content needed to be negotiated in Brussels. The fact is that the Court of Auditors also warns the Ministry of Labour that these forms of society, given the demographic structure of the population, are not the right solution and that more resources are needed for institutional protection, i.e. for homes for the elderly. Nevertheless, the state does not follow. You also have 5 million in the budget for 2020 for the next two years, for 2021 5 million. It means that the state will not rebuild any public home for the elderly, as it has been for more than ten years or exactly 12 years. But the needs are greater every day. At present, we have 11 000 current requests for capacity in nursing homes. Clearly, the state has decided not to solve this problem and will focus on community forms. Why is that? There was no answer. But maybe I can tell you what the answer is. You're not building old people's homes. The forms of the community that you have performed so far are one and the only form, and this is home care. However, since the State did not provide funds, but the last financial burden has been placed on municipalities, local communities which are legally obliged to cover at least 50% of this kind of care, we can say that the State has so elegantly avoided that it did not have to cover funding for such services. I assume that this is the calculation of why you decided to drive a solution in the form of community forms, but not in the form of expanding, upgrading, new building of homes for the elderly, which are really urgently needed. And in view of this, it has been said that the number of older people over 80 years of age is rising, that we also have a high level of dementia in our country, these are all forms or diseases or age, that, according to the household statement, these community forms will certainly not solve these problems and will in fact need to be channelled into institutional forms that provide some comprehensive care for 24 hours each person. With regard to the content of the pilot projects and these analyses and studies, within the framework of the 74 million that you anticipate, of course, there were no concrete answers, since with regard to this purposeful spending of 21.5 million you have planned to build or rebuild units, you will once again confirm that you obviously do not know how many beds or how many those that are needed will actually be saved by such money. If I make one comparison, let's say that a solid home for pensioners costs eight, nine million euros, so you have $21.5 million earmarked for this pilot project, and you can't even answer the basic question right now, what are you going to do with how many beneficiaries you're going to solve with this? For the second project The design of the project unit within the Ministry is again dedicated to the creation of a new unit to create strategic solutions for legislative changes. See, the transfer for legal changes of competence was made at the Ministry of Health, once again, there you have the staff provided, the establishment of a new Directorate with 12 employees, and on the other hand we can read how you will once again spend millions on the creation of some new units with employment to prepare some systemic solutions. In short, it is clear once again that, as already stated by the Court of Auditors, for these 74.5 million euros, for projects without content, without objectives, you will not solve projects that are urgently needed in the area of long-term care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We continue our debate with the Members. The word is given by Sonibo the Prince and followed by Mojca the Žnidaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Furmanova is, I think, about ten minutes ago she reminded us all together, because I wrote: "Let me remind you of my respectable colleagues why we are here today – for spending 74 million euros." Mrs Furman and the other proponents, I have you all in this National Assembly for quite normal. There's nothing else I can say. In the past few days, however, we have heard from the Committees, who are responsible for covering these resources, repeatedly interpreted with full responsibility that there were no spending of 74 million euros. So, if it were correct, I would say today, thank you very much, I got the information, it looks like we didn't have the right information, and the session would be over and we'd all be at home now, not just sitting there and probably sitting for another three or four hours, because you're going to be saying the same thing for the next three or four hours. You use 74 million, you don't have a home for the elderly, and so on. Your colleague Jelka has warned us earlier about what she is missing, which is not delayed by the Government, the Ministry, we would probably have done something earlier if we had not called at least 30 or how many extraordinary meetings in this mandate, mainly with the topics and the introduction of laws that you have already tabled several times, for which you have already prepared the discussions. In short, you don't have any work, you have no old stuff, you pull the maps out, and you're stealing time, so I won't tell you if we who are paid to sit down are listening to this, and to the services that could make more use of this time. Since I have been a good year in this state policy, I must say that I am interested in reading and monitoring at least those areas that I am covering, all the reports, possibly the Court of Auditors reports, the STIZ reports and so on. I know that these reports are an important source of data for us and, in fact, these institutions set us up with a mirror that alerts us to some things that do not work well in this country and should be improved. That's very welcome for me. Finally, in my work, I also had this opinion from the Court of Auditors, which says that the Government and the competent ministries have not been successful in ensuring the accessibility and availability of social protection services since 2007, and that they have spent a disproportionate amount of money on projects that are only supposed to show whether the envisaged solutions in relation to long-term care are appropriate or not. In this work, I have “sufficiently spent a lot of resources”, which have not been used, we have already heard today. So I don't know if you're going to have a lot of debate about this 74 million because I know you're going to be repeating yourself, like I said, and you're going to be saying your own, for what you've been asking yourself, you're going to be taking advantage of all this time you're going to have. The truth, of course, is, as I said, that you have been told many times today and have been told many times in these days, quite different. Mainly, studies were paid for only, I think, slightly over 69 or poor 70,000 euros. Nor is this money like yours or Nova24 that is not spent by left-wing and I do not know who, this money was paid to the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for social protection, whose only founder, respected colleagues and colleagues, is the state. That's it. It's not 74 million, it's the bad 70,000. Also around the use of these funds, let me mention that they are fully traceable. If I touch on that substantive work, the Court of Auditors has warned that it has not been done enough in the last 15 years to ensure the accessibility and availability of social protection services, and I must admit here that I find it difficult to disagree with their findings. Far from nothing has been done, I am also of the opinion that it has not been done enough. The reasons why, I think, was mentioned several times today, and I will return to that later myself. In my opinion, as I said, I take this warning seriously and do not take it as what is happening and what I was afraid of today's session, that it would cause a finger-to-finger demonstration, who is to blame, who has done or has not done anything, who ever said anything about it. A short story, which I have been listening to for a good year, especially from those who have quite a few mandates in this House. That is why I am also committed to restricting my seats to two, three mandates, because we are not coming, and we have no breakthrough, because one and the same have been sitting for many years in the National Assembly, and that is why we are not reaching any consensus on any matter for the benefit of citizens and citizens. That's the facts. What colleague Matjaž Han mentioned to you earlier, I should remind you once again that during the time covered by this audit report, in addition to the social-democratic Dr. Anje Kopač Dark, Marjetka Cotman from Nova Slovenije was headed by the ministries of work of the family, between December 2006 and November 2008, Andrej Vizjak from SDS between February 2012 and March 2013 and also today mentioned by Dr. Ivan Svetlik, who belonged to Desus' quota. Speaking of who is to blame, Alenka Bratusek and Miro Cerar led the government at that time. I would also like to mention here that, in the previous mandate, the care of long-term care from the Ministry of Labour, which has been transferred to the Ministry of Health, has been taken over. In this mandate, the LMC is the head of the majority government and has already taken full responsibility for this and for all other areas in this country. We are left with Levica or colleagues from the Left, who, in my opinion, have lost, at least in my eyes, some credibility for the struggle for social weaknesses by not accepting in last year's year's entry into the government that was offered to them. I was the one who strongly supported you to join the government. On my part, there were even thoughts that I should propose to my colleague Miho Kordiš to take over the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but that is how they decided not to take responsibility. But after one year and a half, since we've been sitting here, I'd probably feel better in the opposition, but I'm not trying to do what I can, but I'm trying to do what I can. But now it didn't fly on any of those, so I wanted to say that we're all who we are and who were responsible for it before we do anything about it. This is about serious challenges, this topic. That is why I also see this meeting today as an opportunity for those who are today in the role of decision-maker to realize that the issue of accessibility and the availability of social protection services must be one of the priorities not only of this government, but also of all governments in the future. Demographic indicators and life-span trends have been warning us for decades that, while this super-data is that we are becoming a long-lived society, it is also essential that we face the challenges of prolonging our lives. However, according to the Court of Auditors, we do not follow this sufficiently, which, as I have already said, I am also agreeing very well. Over the next period, it will be necessary to put in slightly higher gears and to make up for what could have been done some year ago during this period. What I have been monitoring for the past decade, what has been done in the field of alerting these demographic data, has been the PPIZ measures. But these PIZ measures did not go in the first place for the care of pensioners, far away, they went in the opposite direction, they went in the care of keeping the cash register, the sustainability of the cash register. This is the purpose of violating the rights of pensioners. Let me just remember the most important data, that is to say that from sometimes 80% of the pension base, today at 57.5%; that from the best 10 years that were once applied for the period for the calculation of the pension, today we have extended the matter to 24 years, and a lot more. We were looking for solutions to the loss of resources to the generation, which is in fact the only source of pension survival, but of course we have stabilised the state treasury to a certain extent. This reform of PPIZ has also brought us the fact that we have today, at least I have repeatedly used this expression to make today's pensioners into social poverty. The amount of pensions applied is on average 500, slightly over 600 euros. You know the costs we all face, I don't think it's necessary to stress how the generations of pensioners today live. During this week, we had quite a few discussions in the National Assembly or in committees. On Monday, there was an interesting debate on the issue of accessibility to the homes of the elderly, which was referred to by colleagues from the Left. However, the debate was interesting to me because there was one rare debate where we were not looking for the culprit, who was to blame, but we were talking quite substantively about the actual situation in this area. What has been particularly added to me is that there have also been experts involved in this debate, covering specific areas, who are real people from the profession, not without the use of politics, but also actually learn their views, which each day deal with the whole topic of home care, as well as other social transfers. Let me summarize just a few of their findings. Domestic care capacities are too low in relation to the needs of the home. The State must have more control or power to determine prices due to the problems that arise and the different prices. The autonomy of social security service providers can be limited to the point where it is in the interest of the provider. In addition to financial sub-nutrition, there is an increasing problem, even now mentioned, the provision of staff for work in older people's homes, especially due to the inadequate payment of these personnel, is large in this profession. This is one of the issues which will also need to be addressed by one appropriate assessment of these works. Finally, to the appeal that homes for the elderly have also taken over the roles of those who would have previously served in the area of nursing hospitals, which we do not have enough in Slovenia, so that homes for the elderly have also taken over this care, which is not their basic purpose, of course. There's been a lot of these summaries. Let me conclude with this they think that in our homes, everything is not as bad as it has been in recent times. We have a lot at home, and some good practices have already been mentioned today, but of course we still have a lot to do. What bothers me is that it seems irresponsible to adopt social legislation, that if you adopt a law, you do not provide resources for its implementation. I also have a very specific case in mind because I come from Hrastnik, where a former student home was converted into a home of the elderly, of course, three, four beds, you probably know things, but I thought things would be arranged, because this country has adopted a future plan to raise the standard of living in these homes to one- and two-bedroom level. As I did not see the funds provided for this purpose myself, the Ministry asked how it intended to ensure that there were no funds identified. Now, she told me like that, but we'll, I don't know, extend the deadline. That's not an answer. That's not an answer. I would just like to point out that if there are no sources of funding available, let us not promise or adopt legislation that will find some new rights that we cannot define in practice at the final stage. What I am pleased to say is that the Minister on this committee, because I was present, at the beginning of the presentation of the measures they are preparing at the Ministry, also informed us of the establishment of five groups, each dealing with its own field or subject matter. Later, through the debate, it became clear that all the debaters indicated that this was a topic and that the groups were set up for a topic that was actually topical. We have done something during this good year of this government and this coalition. Some of these measures are still in preparation, especially some of the more beautiful revisions of the PIZ legislation, here I am thinking of raising to 63%, which will raise the wages of future pensioners, and of course will not correct the injustices of all generations who have been at these percentages for years. At the time of my term of office, I myself wondered what was the reason why the law on long-term care had been in the procedure for 10 or 15 years, which was mentioned many times today. In general, 150 million resources that are not available, 150 million somehow in start-up, and later, of course, in the years that these demographic movements are changing, these funds were, of course, even higher. Most of the time, everyone here today has claimed that it was probably not the bad will and unwillingness of all ministers of the family's work in recent years that they have not prepared to do so, but there is no means. We will have to agree in this country on the need to redistribute funds. I think that the area of social care and care for the elderly is one of the priority areas for the next period. We often like to compare ourselves with the Scandinavian countries to have a well-ordered area. It was also on the committee, but it was also explained in the case, I think that the Netherlands, when they also mentioned that they had a well-ordered area, but they allocated 3% of the funds from their budget for these purposes. With us, this percentage is less than 0.5%. [[advertising from the hall]] Looks like I'm having fun with my friends, that's what I'm glad about. Let me finish this slowly. Even today, we have already heard concretely about some hands, not some imaginary hands of preparation, about the final stage of the implementation of this long-term care law. That's what they say. That's April next year. I hope that we will stick to this and that this law will finally see the light of the world. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me finish. The area of long-term care is broad and complex and I find it difficult to believe that this law on long-term care will fully resolve it, which means only one step towards improving the area of long-term care and caring for the elderly. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which, in my opinion, is one of the most difficult sources, the most demanding ones – I don't know, I would also like to think a little bit about the organisation or reorganisation of this ministry, because it actually covers a wide range of rights here in the future. I'm even inclined to think about having a ministry for the elderly. If we already have – without defining whether we need it or not – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because of all the topics that will come to us next year, there would be nothing wrong with having a ministry for older people representing hundreds of thousands of citizens and citizens of this country. I don't know. And last but not least, dear colleagues, the care of the elders we talk about today is the care of our parents, our grandparents, and not least, respected colleagues, will be taking care of us tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word and will be discussed by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Today we have heard a number of questions from the proposer. That is why public homes are not being built, why European funds are not intended to build houses, why the Ministry has decided to expand its forms and not home to pensioners. I would like to recall the resolution in force since 2013 and still in force, in force until 2020, and was therefore adopted at that time, adopted in their time. It was adopted in 2013. It points out, however, that by 2020 the desire to substantially strengthen the social protection of the community and to increase the number of their users is that the extension of the network of social security providers and programmes, in particular through the development of a public-private partnership or through the award of concessions, then that the national social protection programme for the period 2013 to 2020 provides for the reallocation of institutional protection capacities in the user-friendly Community form, and so on. So this resolution has been adopted on its own, and I don't know why today there are many questions about why this is going in this direction. Besides, I'm not even saying that the subject is wrong, it's the right direction. Because there is no longer a tendency for people to be locked up in some large institutions, in what old castles and the like, but it is a tendency to integrate them into small group housing units. About the bedding capacity. The data show that Slovenia has about five beds per thousand inhabitants, such as the average of OECD Member States. Specifically, Slovenia has 54.5 beds per thousand inhabitants, the average of the OECD countries is 49.7. But it is true that the coverage between regions is different. With regard to the award of concessions, I would say that they were and will continue to be, with this policy, and also with regard to the ageing of the population, necessary. We have heard today that we have about 19% of the population over 65 years of age and that in 2050 there will already be 30% of the population over 30 years of age. So building a home or granting concessions will still be necessary. But the problem here is, in my opinion, elsewhere. It is not a problem that concessions have been awarded, but that the share of construction costs is included in the price calculation. Which, from the investor's point of view, makes sense, but from the user's point of view, the elderly doesn't make sense. But it is true that even if certain changes are made, the concession contracts can not be renegotiated and cannot be amended. For years, so many years, we have been talking about deinstitutionalisation and long-term care. I think this is where the main problem is why the pressure on homes is so great – because these forms of society are not developed. We don't have a lot of day care, we don't have complementary activities on farms, we don't have enough protected housing, housing units, other forms, temporary accommodations, as they asked today when someone's going on vacation, hospital. But all of this will now be built with European funds, including the 74 million you are mentioning, because it is not only about analysis and research, but also about the construction of these day centres, intergenerational centres, temporary units, housing units. So these funds will also be earmarked for this. So that we don't just talk about what we don't have, because we already have a few things, or they're broken. Home aid is developed. It is true that it is co-financed by municipalities, and this is different, prices vary. Some people are employed as family helpers. The situation has deteriorated in recent years. But we do have this year, which is 1 year. 1. 2019, very many people who are employed as personal assistants, this is therefore possible in cases where they care for persons under 65 years of age. We also have certain financial benefits. In addition to a pension, people who need a certain care of others can arrange an allowance for help and service, which is in three different amounts — 150, 300 or 430 euros, depending on how much assistance they need. So, we have everything smallly, things are fragmented, and I really hope that the long-term care law that we received yesterday will be assured by the Secretary of State that he will be able to link it all together in April in the government and solve the many challenges that await us in this area. However, I certainly think and I know that we are all aware together that this will require a certain contribution from all of us. We have also heard, in these last days when the committees took place this week, that at least one quarter of the users in the pension homes of those who are included in the first group of care are said to need very little assistance. The subject is essentially more offered housing, washing, food. These people will be able to participate in these and give space to those who simply need more care when additional extra-domestic capacities are built if they want to. Indeed, retirement homes fear becoming nursing hospitals because they already have too many users who need very much care. Today, some things were also said about the staff, more in the preceding days. Here I can agree that the staff working in the homes of pensioners not only do their work, but they do their job and work more ethically, not only for the minimum wage. I have also taken the initiative on boards on several occasions to help them, in particular with regard to society and other recipients of financial social assistance, through public works, so that I think we can find some common solutions here. We also discussed dementia on one of the committees. It has been said that this is our greatest health, social and financial challenge in the future. As long as it is possible, these people actually work very well at home, much better than in some institutions, but there in the final stages of dementia it is almost impossible or difficult to have these people at home, so that there will certainly be additional capacities in the homes. It was said that some 5 million funds were allocated in 2020 and also 5 million in 2021 to build additional capacity, which is perhaps not much, but more than in the last five years together. But that's not the only source. There are quite a few public homes that also have so much or more resources in their accounts, and they should be called upon to expand their capacities as quickly as possible. For the stranger who led the house of the pensioners said to me himself that every house in 33 years, when it is essentially mortified, must gather enough resources to build a new house. There will be some sort of integral, long-term care. I hope that the April 2020 deadline is indeed the last time that it will not move as it has been for the last 15 years and that we will all together know how to look for all other capacities, both domestic and, above all, community, because these are the right solutions for people to be involved in these forms. There are still many challenges ahead of us. But it is true that no matter what recommendation I make, if I focus on it, no one can do that in 30 days. During the night of what has been gathering for the past 10, 15 years, it is impossible to implement, so I certainly cannot support these recommendations. The first recommendation, however, refers to these funds, which you say are intended only for research or envisaged solutions with long-term care and that someone be brought here to report, if the funds have not been used at all – then, of course, this decision or this recommendation cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič has the word and will be discussed by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u62	Dear President! First, let me respond to two things or three. One thing we have now heard in the debate, which I must say was quite all right, up to the point where the lady was talking about the resolution. A resolution can be changed by any government if it wants to. He can set priorities, he can change priorities. This resolution was adopted, as you rightly stated, 2013. But from 2013 to today, how long has it been? So, now we're in 2019, that's six years. And at that time, nothing has been done in the area of long - term care. If you have read the Court of Auditors' audit report, you should understand why this is actually on the agenda today. The second thing that seems more important to me, which is more problematic, is the debate by Mr Knezak of the SD, who, among other things, said that this time that we are using to deal with the issue of long-term care could be spent more usefully. Now tell me if such a Member can sit here in the National Assembly. Can such a Member sit here in the National Assembly when we have such acute problems in this area, so acutely open questions, to which the European Commission reminds us, the Court of Auditors warns the Ombudsman? Community social institutions point out that they are unsustainable. And then one of the SD Members, who had the Secretary of State, two ministers in this position, tells you that we are wasting no time today! But if that's normal, for God's sake, please. I don't know if we're all on the same wagon, if we're all in the National Assembly or if some people live somewhere else. The next thing I have to remind you of is Mr. Jože Lenart. But in particular, this is not an SDS Member, because SDS Member is Joseph Lenart. This is a man who comes from LMSH and talks here in the National Council of Lies. He's a public liar. I demand that public lies be excused to all the debaters in front of you. I specifically wrote in the position of the Group of Members – I will explain. In the view of the Group of Members, we have specifically stated: “We cannot agree that for hundreds of thousands of elderly countries it does not see either this or what social protection we would need to have thousands of older months and years waiting for a place in the home for the elderly,” and now listen to “where the low-income workers burn from the abundance of work.” And, sir, I ask you where is the attack on those who are employed in the nursing home. Where do you see an attack on the leadership home for the elderly? And to get a little closer to this discussion of yours, I have now received a whole bunch of messages, because I come from Styria, where Austria is close and where we have large tables set all over the congregation and even wider, where it says: We are looking for nurses to work in Austria. Ask the director at home for the elderly in Maribor, what problems he faces. In Austria, they have the 13th salary, the 14th salary, and they have one higher salary than we have. That's the problem we're facing. These are all the problems that we are addressing today, including this. I hope you've heard that you've read the Court of Auditors report, which isn't just about 74 million and a half. Also very important other things are exposed. And now I'm going back to this report. Speaking of long-term care, once again, I personally think that today we should be Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Health and President of the Government. The solution to the long-term care problem is a great government project! And who's sitting here today? Sad, shameful, tasteless, unacceptable! But it's not your fault you're here. God forbid anyone thinks it's flying at you. It flies to those responsible in this country who are obliged to seek and propose appropriate solutions to the National Assembly in this area. And they're not here today. No president of the government, no minister of one, no minister of another. Like Shabedra, I haven't seen him since, I don't know, like he's gone. It's like he's gone. That's amazing! And the kind of problems we have in the health field! And the same in the area of social and long-term care. This should be a government project. The difficulty of the long-term care project is there, I think, and let someone forgive me if I make a mistake, according to my personal assessment, at least EUR 300 million. It's a key problem that's been dragging around for years, all the time. Papers transfer everything, but governments that have ruled the last 10 years, with the exception of one year when the government had a Slovenian Democratic Party – in the most difficult situation, which was even possible, which has thus carried out a pension reform in one year, which is almost for all the other parties together something that they are not able to do in the next hundred years – you have done nothing in this area. That's the problem. And the Court of Auditors. See, if the opposition proposes any solution, it is always rejected, as I said today, with a thousand and one excuse. Most excuses are that our proposals are not of a systemic nature. And now that we are also being warned by the Court of Auditors, then I will read those five key points that are important – if they are not a difficult enough argument for us to find the right solution here and if necessary, we will sit here for 14 days together.We must not be having a problem time because we are here to help those people who have problems in this area close to 400 000, as we have heard today, to help solve the situation so that they can function normally in age. [[…]] Because they just can't survive on their own. Some do, some don't, but it depends on how someone does. I forgot to say that here. This is pointed out by the Court of Auditors, as I said before, by the Ombudsman, and we are also reminded by the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia and so on. I've said that before. That is to say, if this is not an alarming enough issue and the European Commission reminds us that, as soon as possible, a long-term supply law should have been passed five years ago if we are to solve the problems that have accumulated. [[…]] Ten years of left-wing elite rule, but you weren't able to bring a solution in this area. I apologize, I had no intention of talking about any political group, but the attacks on the proposer of this meeting, which I have heard today, are unacceptable. We want good, we want the problem solved. Yesterday at the meeting, I discussed in this direction that we should come together, that all of the parties we are sitting here in this national assembly should connect and find a solution that is necessary, necessary, and we all know that it must be, and that we should make it a priority. Your government has made it a priority, too. What did Schabeder write — I showed you yesterday — when he pictured how he would solve the problems? Number one, he wrote this down. Look, read it all. And what did he write? Long-term supply law, target number one. Then he wrote a timeline below. I'm going to read it again because you need to hear it because obviously you can't hear it, you're sitting in your ears! What did he write? Number one: Preparation of draft law with introduction, articles and explanations, June 2019. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you what month we are today. Tell the people we're in October today! Are we, or aren't we? Are we in June? Are we in front of June? Somebody explain it to me! A healthy farmer's brain, because you don't have to be smart to know we're in October. You don't have to be smart not to know that. Then: public debate, August 2019. Are we in August now? Are we in August?Oh, my God! Are we in October? Preparation of a proposal for government material, inter-resort coordination, October 2019 – we are in the second half of October! And so on. Now I go back to what the Court of Auditors wrote on all four, five key things that I think are so important that we simply cannot and cannot overlook them. If you can overlook the opposition's proposals, you can't ignore what the Court of Auditors said. You can't do that. No one can get past that. I hope it's an organ that has some weight in this country. And if we look at number one, the explanation reads: “The Court of Auditors has expressed the opinion that the State’s concern for providing assistance to all who need it during the period to which the audit relates was not satisfactory.” Hereinafter: “In addition, they did not ensure equal treatment of the beneficiaries and the planning of the new system of long-term care was not appropriate.” Point two: The Court of Auditors states that in 2016 only 8.9% of all 395 thousand 127 beneficiaries received aid in the form of various social protection services, 1.7% of the beneficiaries were in the waiting line for admission to their homes for the elderly, 89.4% of the other beneficiaries did not have any information on whether or not the aid would be needed and whether or not they actually receive aid. Under point three: The Court of Auditors found that the Ministry of Labour did not provide data on the needs and available capacities for all forms of social protection services; the Ministry of Labour could thus not determine the extent to which and what specific forms of services, community or institutional services, persons in need of the assistance of others would actually need. Under point four, the Court of Auditors further notes that the Ministry of Labour has failed to ensure equal, comparable treatment of beneficiaries with regard to access to services, irrespective of whether they would opt for an institutional or community-based form of social protection services. Under point five: According to the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Labour has not ensured equal or comparable treatment of beneficiaries in ensuring the affordability of social protection services as Community forms of social protection services are more expensive than institutional forms. Under point six, the Court of Auditors is particularly concerned that the Government, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health did not adequately plan a new system of long-term care; thus, the Government did not specify the delimitation of tasks for which each of the two ministries was to be responsible. Then under point seven: The government is for projects that are supposed to just show – we have already talked about these 74 million and a half, and there were some answers that are so flat-rate, but in these 74 million and a half is not the problem that they are not used, it would be a problem if they were used so far, but they would not be used for the purposes for which they are used. But the problem is, they weren't used! Why are we looking at €70 million?Oh, my God! Tell me why it's been lying so long, who we're waiting for! But people can't get home for the elderly, we don't have any solutions for them! They're waiting at home for a year or two or three or I don't know how much longer! And we hear about it pretty well at the Ministry yesterday so easily from the left hand, yes, 54 million is still in the account. I'm on my own, where do we live? Yeah, where do we live? I'm asking you, come on! Why were these funds not spent, invested in what we needed every day?Oh, my God! Unbelievable, no. It's just amazing. And someone has to answer for that — why these funds lie there for so long. Someone has to be responsible for that. Why weren't they used? In the meantime, the Court of Auditors is also aware of this warning, but you obviously do not understand it that way! And the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia draws attention to these problems. Among other things, they write: “In our opinion, the country has left the elderly and their relatives to themselves, to their financial and other abilities. The state claims that we are a social state, and in the area of caring for the elderly it has been clear for many years that they have to take care of themselves with their own resources, since this is the cheapest thing for the country.” And that's a fact. That's a fact. I have a mother, I told you the last time, yesterday, at the nursing home and we, the family, the kids, keep her there. Mom's got 460 euros in pension, and home is 900. The rest of the difference between me and my brothers and sisters is paid every month. It's a social state. But while in Austria, as I have already said, everyone has a home for the elderly. Everyone! No matter what his financial abilities. It's a state. We need to talk about such a country, and we need to talk about such goals. But not today to attack each other, who has done more, who has done less. The fact is that we are ahead of this problem, and the fact is that most of the leadership of this country is led by leftist governments, which are full of the mouths of the social state, and they have done nothing for the social community. Sad, truly sad. And in the end. My colleague, Carmen Furman, answered the following question. In short: “Because of the lack of available budgetary resources, we provide most additional capacity through the award of concessions for the performance of institutional protection in homes for the elderly, which are awarded on the basis of a call for proposals.” And the Minister concluded: "The Coalition Agreement for the period 2018-2022 provides for the establishment of an integrated system of long-term care by adopting a long-term care law. The aim of the system arrangements for long-term care is to improve the accessibility of services," and so on and so on. But those are the written words. People waiting in line almost every day call me someone, help me — how can I help? And we got a report – there are no open places in all Slovenian homes for the elderly. Nothing. So, sad truth is, someone has to die in a nursing home so someone else can enter this home. This is the Slovenian reality and political disgrace of this country. Those who sit in these well-paid positions should be aware of this! Don't try to talk us out of this, just because of this, this and this, I don't know, ten reasons, you couldn't do that. I don't care. Bring the papers, that's why we're Members here, no matter who's in which party, so we can take the right solution here. And set up, like I said yesterday, a real priority. The priority number is long-term care and health care to save waiting species and to enable people to be healthy in our society so that they can live healthy lives. That's number one for me right now. Because those who cannot live alone can't help themselves, they can't find their own solution. And if he still has the pension that most of these little people have -- as I say to them, but I apologize to them all for not misinterpreting -- who get 300, 400 or 500 euros of pension, how can such people help themselves?Oh, my God! How can someone hire someone to come and serve him? The young go with the belly behind the bread. Half the young people leave Slovenia, and every year I don't know how many people leave Slovenia, highly educated. And then there's no one left to take care of them. Apart from helping local communities here, thank God that the country is at least as diversified here and that we have organised ourselves in such a way that not everything is centralised, as now this government is trying to start again. So please, and do not take me personally, I speak in the interests of our society, our people, our citizens and citizens, and this must be our common priority. And talking about long-term care and this law here in Parliament is a waste of time, according to Member Prince. From the SD Party. Then you know what kind of people are sitting in our Parliament and how extremely corrupt they are — I can't say otherwise — that they can declare such things when they actually have in their constituency or the environment from which they come, a whole bunch of such problems and people who wait every day for someone to help them to survive. If this is not our common concern, if this is not our priority number one, policy and all those in the areas where you need to prepare professional matters, then I do not know what our task is. Then I don't know why we're here, then it's better if we go our separate ways and there are others who are more capable of us, all of us. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have made these recommendations in order to get everyone, all institutions, all those who have to contribute to this matter to be settled and resolved as soon as possible! That's why we put this in, not just for 74 million. And it is also critical, catastrophic, that money lies in the budget, but we are missing 20 or, I don't know, 50 homes for the elderly or any other form of solving this problem. This is extremely inappropriate and rude. Whoever did this should be answering today, not sitting in the President's office! What's this, Sharetz? What kind of government president does he have inside people like that who put the system on — not to say where?Oh, my God! But they're in his office today. That's not the Prime Minister for me. It can't be. You should get rid of things like that right now! Such people have nothing more to look for in politics than in government! And one of them is Anja Kopač Dark, who should never again smell politics, after all the damage she has done to this country and to these citizens and citizens, who are now paying dearly, does nothing, according to my personal assessment. I don't know how many there are, but they don't know what anyone's doing. Sad, unacceptable and shameful. These are things we need to clear up in this society. Once we clear up these privileges once we know what someone's paying for, who's drinking, who's paying, then this country will move on. As long as such structures, such political connections within Parliament, are in place, there is nothing to be expected, there is nothing to count on. Because even those who do well have desires and interests to pull forward, they will sooner or later cut off their heads because they will cut through those pipes that run from a hidden country to individual subsystems in our society. Unfortunately, I think the moment will come when we have to cut this, or Slovenia won't be for long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. He'll be followed by a mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We've got a roofing problem in the list of everything we've heard today. One problem that we may not have faced or has not yet been met – the fact is that if we focus on caregivers and caregivers at home for the elderly on behalf of the social state, they pay too much for care and care services. This is the social element of this discourse that we should continue to push forward. They pay too much because, or (a) as the Court of Auditors finds out in their audit report, they pay debts to undertakings operating licensed homes, sometimes even after debts have been paid themselves, or (b) they pay too much for this part of the social security they have already covered in their regular monthly amount. In short, caregivers and those who pay for their care are the shortest. Instead of a system where such anomalies have obviously become not only an anomaly, but a regular practice, the state should be responsible to establish a strong system of public homes where suppliers and suppliers offer quality services and to provide a sufficiently well-paid staff. Instead, in the last 20 years, the country has opened its doors wide to companies that are no different than companies that, instead of providing quality services in the public interest, care for the elderly. That's the core of the problem. I am curious, too, to draw attention to the debate of my colleague, Soniboj Knežak, who mentioned our situation, the situation of the leftist Group, the leftist party, who has not decided to join the government coalition, because she is not responsible for her work. I wonder what's the responsibility here. Is it responsible to stand behind your agenda or is it responsible to accept all compromises? And oh, how many compromises have had to be made by Slovenian Social Democrats to implement these policies by the government of Marjan Sarca. I am not so critical of the idea of social democracy, but until this interpretation of the idea of social democracy, man cannot be critical. And this constant repetition of compromise for compromise and compromise in the light of opening the door to capital and not the well-being of man is what has summed up this problem that we are facing today. The problem in which the country absolutely ignores, every time again, the demographic challenge of Slovenia. We have a pension problem, and as a result, we have a poverty problem between pensioners, which is the highest among pensioners. The biggest victims of poverty in Slovenia are women, pensioners over 65 years of age. At the final stage, we have a problem with lack of capacity in nursing homes, 11 thousand requests to one vacant place. We have everything the analysis or audit of the Court of Auditors shows. Of course, they do — who? Users and users of home for older citizens and those who pay for their services. The gravest violation of everything on one side of marriage and, on the other hand, the purely human morality is, of course, this part of the Court of Auditors' report, which speaks of what I have already mentioned – that suppliers and suppliers pay an additional sum to this monthly sum for the reimbursement of certain investment costs. Domestically, as the social inspectors have said: “Paying the poofs of companies that manage homes.” The solution that we are proposing in Levica not only to criticize is very simple. The government coalition and the competent ministries must move, they must do their job now, at this point. With existing legislation, this practice, this alarmingly painful practice – it is said to pay for certain investment costs, the payment of company poofs – can now be eliminated, with existing legal guidelines and sub-laws, with a price-setting methodology regulation. We can put an end to this now. We can remove the height and we can cancel the time period during which residents and residents or homekeepers are allowed to contribute to this investment bag of companies operating homes for older citizens. But all it takes is a little action. Even now we can go to the price-setting policy and say, wow, social care means assistance in dressing, personal hygiene, sitting in wheelchairs and so on, for all these rude extra packages that we demand, you demand from the caregivers and home caregivers. They don't have to pay extra for something they're already paying for anyway. They're paying for welfare. And helping you put on your left sleeve, I don't know if you can, but the right one can — is that partial help or what? Yeah, it's human to cover it up. It's bullshit to even count it extra. I understand that the competent ministries cannot fully agree with the budget cut and that they have a bit of a grip on the end and that they have a problem. At the final stage, we have a ministry that the prime minister has given them a substantial amount of resources to operate on. We have ministries that have received in the budget cut funds for some projects that we do not need, in fact, a hand in the heart. How much money we have increased for some armoured people who will be able to move into the desert, no relation to anything social in Slovenia, but you must be in health care and on social welfare glistening whether it will go through or not. Or maybe we could put 16 million dollars on the social welfare allowance, because that would be a good thing for us to do in the rescue of the social state. But we have those armoured men, and we have tax breaks, and I don't know how many, but 70 million for the richest. All we need to solve this problem is political will! With the existing, without further analysis, without additional — or the law on long - term care, we do not need to solve this problem. We are talking about the law on long-term care and how long it is being prepared and how and how we would like to see the action plan for preparing when it will come into parliamentary treatment – okay, but to solve these problems, which are the worst-hitting problems on the wallet, who already, because of their under-average pensions, cannot afford one decent care, but they have to gulp with their family to solve these problems, we need nothing. We need some political will between us today, as we obviously showed on yesterday's work committee. I will conclude with a statement by my colleague Nina Maurovich of the LMŠ Group. He says, "We can't solve the situation from today to tomorrow, we can move forward with our actions." Yeah, let's get this situation resolved today. I thank her for giving me an excellent point. With these measures that we have proposed today in the Levica Group, we can solve this problem today. Tomorrow this problem will either be solved or not, but those Members will be blamed for success or failure, which will press either plus or minus. So this question, or my call, is not even of such a strategic nature. It's just a call to gather some common sense and decide for humanity. “People are watching us and we are counterproductive,” says the official opening address of the LMŠ Group. We are not counterproductive; you, honourable Members of the Coalition, have so far been counterproductive. You have one set of very productive conclusions on the table under which we sign in the Left Group, and just and exclusively the matter of your political will is whether it goes through or not today, whether the caregivers and caregivers at home will still pay their services for the elderly or pay as much as the service is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Court of Auditors’ opinion, which showed that the State was not successful in accessing social protection services, is nothing more than to attach. But here it must be emphasized that this is the fault of all governments. Regrettably, too, the SDS's proponents, who were in government in 2012 until March 2013. It was led by Andrej Vizjak. I believe they were thinking about long-term care at the time, but I don't know if any of the drafts of the law have gone anywhere else. Several times today it has been said that we have done nothing, that we are inactive, why long-term care has been transferred from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to the Ministry of Health. I must say that I was a Member in the previous term – I was neither informed nor questioned, only the transfer was made and we had to agree. And I was in the previous term also in the working group to draft a law on long-term care. Even today, I can say with certainty that if we let that marriage go ahead, it would be significantly worse today than not having it at all. Why am I saying this? Since the law, which was under public scrutiny or public debate, would put even more burden on its family members and would actually make nursing homes more expensive because of the high entrance thresholds. I would not be able to confirm this today or in the previous term. So I appeal here to the Ministry to be very careful about what the new long-term care law will be like, which we have been waiting and waiting for and waiting too long, because the long-term care law should have been in force – I don't know when. The proposal, which was then, did not respond to the key challenges, but would even worsen the situation of a large part of today's suppliers and future service users, which unfortunately include us sitting here today. Once again, with everything, I will say that the responsibility of that law that the Government was preparing was not acceptable to him and I opposed him. Of course, we gave solutions, unfortunately then these solutions — some were taken into account, but the vast majority were not. As has been said several times today, the number of elderly people is growing rapidly and the number of places in the homes is unfortunately not. In doing so, it should be pointed out that pensions are extremely low. Also, many of those who went with a higher dose percentage, after the old ZPIZ-1, can't afford to retire, or his pension is not enough for him to provide I. What will happen to this younger generation of us, and to the younger one who has the minimum income today — what pensions will they have? Indeed, this is extremely sad. As I said before, a long-term care law would have been needed yesterday, not today and not tomorrow. In the homes for the elderly, only the elderly come, who fully, more or less fully, need help. I looked at my homes abroad. I tell you, in homes abroad, people are extremely pleased, their age is franticly rising due to the whole supply. In these homes, you have the pleasure of talking to an 80 - year - old or even more because they enjoy themselves. I can't tell you how good these domestic communities are. With us, however, only those who really go home are simply coming home, as we have said today, from the hospital to the home. Of course if it's even free from any city. There are no vacant places. One is not in Slovenia. So really, waiting days are extremely long, and when you talk to older people, they say, yes, today at 65 years of age, I'm on a waiting period, and I'm totally fit — why? Because I know I'm gonna need this in 10 years. And some have really been waiting so long for them to come home. Slovenia has been extremely backward in building houses over the past 10, 12 years, since no home has been built from public funds since 2007, which cannot be proud of us, far from it. At the same time, I must point out that we have very uneven coverage with homes in Slovenia. I come from Ruša Municipality, Ruša Administrative Unit, which does not have a home for the elderly. We cover the population of 16,000 people, three municipalities together, we fight for concession, we look for options for how to have a home, because the elderly would want to do so immeasurably, they want to stay in their home environment, but of course they have a very difficult life in their homes. On the other hand, local communities help or help with help at home. But here it must be pointed out that social care providers offer only care and household care, but they cannot give medicines or medicines to the elderly. God forbid he could be injected with insulin. But the family can do that. That's very interesting. Here, too, it would be very important to consider what a social care provider who is actually well-educated for this profession can do. That's one anomaly. But the other anomaly is the price. The price of help at home for an hour is between 15 and 20 euros, depending on what conditions the congregation receives from the contractor. One hour. The whole day of care in the public service costs between 18, we'll say, and 25 euros, for supply I. I think the ministry should really take a little look at the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of social protection services and wonder how this price of help at home, if, of course, we want the relatives and the elderly at home, in our own environment, to be put into some normal framework. Because he thinks that I'm telling you, from 15 to 20 euros doesn't go together, plus, in fact, there are a lot of them in this rule, I'm going to say - the range is up to 50%, up to 75%, and what do those who design the price do? They take as much as 75%. They're not interested in the cost at all. And then this price goes up so drastic that it's simply not understandable. Sure, yeah, you'll say, local community 50%, cool, cool. Plus 20, 25%, because some family members are paying, relatives or caregivers who have between 5 and 7 euros somewhere. Well, that doesn't sound like much for an hour now, but then what's the part that needs to be covered by the local community? These funds, which are actually provided by the local community to help out at home, could be earmarked for the elderly, for forms of social association, because these things, which could still be built on, are extremely large. So it is possible here for the Ministry to think, to think this way and to look at this rule. But if you want some practical information, I can tell you. We were also talking about the personnel. Me, the frames. There is a shortage of healthcare staff. What else is going on in the periphery or in the congregations that, I'm going to say, gravity to Austria because I'm just coming from the Styria End? They're going abroad. Why? Because there are actually conditions of work there – otherwise I cannot say they are better than we are, because the old man is here immobile, but only their payment is significantly different from ours. So this is where we're actually lagging behind. With the measures taken by the Public Finance Balance Act 2012, I think we have also made mistakes. We were restricting new employment, wages were falling, and people were just looking for new resources and then they left. We can't be proud of that either. Slovenia, in the homes for the elderly, is faced with the fact that in fact there is no trained staff in us. Yes, foreigners are coming, but there is another problem again – the problem with language as well as education, cultural differences and more. So an extremely difficult task awaits us in the coming years. What else is there in nursing homes when you talk to the director and with the staff? The elderly are becoming increasingly demanding, yes, even the relatives, those who had relatives in our homes, we are demanding a lot of personnel, sometimes even an impossible mission. Because if someone puts a fixed homeowner, he expects – because I also expected him to get on his feet then he will walk down to have all the care, physical therapy and everything else that they can't actually provide at home. I think we're still back here, and we're gonna have to change our minds a little bit. And there's another thing. Older people, workers – of course, we are getting older, and it is increasingly difficult for us to raise people who are immobile, caregivers in homes for the elderly. I fully understand them when they say they have 20% or 30% of the staff in the hospital stock – they simply can't, they can't. Older people can't. And on the other hand, we have a pension law that makes this age a long time. We just can't imagine what it's going to be like today. Time is running extremely fast, the only thing I would like to talk about is the 74 million we've talked about several times. Several times today, the proposer mentioned that it had been used, and thanks to God, she has already improved several times that they were foreseen, and she would have wanted to spend 74 million on building new homes, but it is European cohesion funds that we unfortunately can use for a specific purpose – intergenerational centres, family day centres, ICT development, mobile services – which will improve and develop social and health services for users. This would also relieve the pressure on homes and the elderly. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Here you go, proposer, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. The predecessor, Comrade Muršič, said that if the law, as it had been in public treatment, had been adopted, we would have been worse off than we are now. What a marriage was like, what its contents were, and I'm not going to talk about it today because I don't know it too well, I just have to believe it. But on the other hand, the fact is that – a respected colleague, because you were in the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities was under your department. It is true that this was the last time under the Ministry of Health, but I must say that on the board yesterday, both former ministers were just competing with each other, who had drawn up a better law. It was wrong, however, that when prepared by the former Minister of Labour, Mrak, when he was ready for adoption, the government fell. Ms Celarc also said that when the law was ready for adoption, the government had fallen. Today, the Secretary of State said it would be 20. 4. In the following year, the law in preparation for adoption in the National Assembly – the government will obviously fall. So at least here we know when the government will fall, so 20. 4. 2020. As for all the other matters that have been exposed today also by Mrs Muršič. Yes, we obviously agree on the issue of long-term care. It has been highlighted what is already here in the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time during a debate that has been going on for several hours. The Court of Auditors has found a number of things concerning the non-functionality of the system, of which, once again, that institutional protection does not work, the needs here are greatest in order for the Ministry to decide to expand its forms of society. I still haven't received an answer today why, except that this is in the operational programme – yes, for cohesion funds, but what about everything else? The answer, which is the most logical, I have given myself. Therefore, in order for the State to be able to place the financial burden on implementation or, I will say, to put out what is happening in this area, to transfer it to the local communities and commit them to cover at least 50% of the aid at home from its resources, i.e. from the resources in the municipal budgets, not from the state budgets. Although this is essentially institutional protection, or at least a broader view of long-term care, primarily within the jurisdiction of the State. Obviously, then, the state is trying to avoid as much as possible or finding no will to make funds available for these needs. Even if we continue to have a budget in place for the next two years, it is obvious that this will not happen. So it will not be home that we urgently need, but obviously we will be implementing pilot projects for which, even today, at least a representative or a secretary from the Ministry of Labour is unable to provide concrete information on what we will achieve with these pilot projects. I've pointed out two. The first is €21 million and a half, and I did not get an answer about it, which means that if the project learns how many people need help, it will actually go away or actually get some help from this project, what kind of assistance, in short, nothing about it. For those of us who know a little bit about drawing on European funds, this answer that we do not know yet, we cannot know because it will only be known in the call for proposals – see, when you apply for a cohesion project, you need to know exactly what measures you are pursuing, what objectives you are pursuing with the project. Because if you don't know that, then the European Commission will tell you when it refuses to co-finance this project from European funds. Once again, it is clear that this 74 million and a half, as far as you have dedicated them to studies, projects, I stress once again, although it has been obvious to me that I have always spent – no, I am not speaking, but you have dedicated them to use. So if you don't spend it, it means that you've deprived citizens of it, so that these cohesion funds can be earmarked for other needs. This is what the Court of Auditors said yesterday on the Committee – that it also punishes you in this segment, that you are late with these projects, studies and so on, and that in the final stage this also means that there will be no drawback of European funds at all. In short, I believe that this debate is clearly in place today. Colleagues from the coalition are trying to shift attention to all other problems, to who has ever been in the government, but see, the fact is that the Court of Audit has now found that the intentional use of funds is reckless. We, with our proposals from the starting point of view of the conclusions that we have put forward today at an extraordinary meeting, want to explore the purpose or useful use of these funds, to examine who is responsible for who has proposed these projects, what these projects are intended to carry out, what their content, what their objectives are, and what solutions will be realized through the implementation of these projects. This could not be established by the Court of Auditors during the audit. Notwithstanding the fact that it made additional calls to both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, it did not receive an answer. This is also evident from the audit. It is right, given that, for sure, the first purpose of public funds is prudent spending, transparent spending – and ultimately, we owe it to our citizens to ensure that they know why the funds are being spent. On the other hand, it is the right and, of course, the duty of the policy to help where it can. In view of what has been exposed, what are the problems of long-term care — yes, problems are also, or mainly, because the rules are not corrected according to the needs that exist. But these needs do not exist for one year now, and these needs have existed for several years. I mentioned earlier that social inspection has been warning since 2013 about prices that are being unfairly charged. It points to unequal treatment of users. It points to a lack of personnel. Finally, you were also reminded of this by the Ombudsman, and several times in your annual reports, which you are also dealing with here, first on the petition committee and then in the framework of the meetings of the National Assembly. This has been repeatedly pointed out, including the consequences of the failure of home care providers to receive such care as they would actually need. The fact is, the Ministry of Labour on this site has not done its job. It is not a regulation for the pricing methodology, nor for the staff, nor for the rules for the establishment of standards and standards. Even some more detailed standards or regulations have been set within the Community of the Social Institutions of Slovenia, and today they are not only applicable because the Ministry of Labour has not made them public. And apparently, after several years, it has not yet been possible to publish them publicly. This was all at a time when this ministry belonged to the Social Democrats. You've been running this department for years, or at first you've had a minister for about five years, then your secretary, now former Minister Kopač Mrak, was in this department, and in all these nine, ten years you haven't been able to make any movement in this direction in order to improve the situation in this area at least. Unfortunately, we have the situation we have today, and all those who need help are suffering, and because of that, because of your policy you are taking here, they are not receiving it. And now you're moving around with everything the Court of Auditors has warned you about. You agree that the actual needs are such as to ensure that the funds are not provided, even in the next two years, in budgets, for the expansion of household care, for the expansion of homes to build homes for pensioners. Colleague Muršič pointed out to her congregation that they do not have a home for the elderly. Yes, even in my congregation it would not be if it were not for the local community or the congregation to build a home from its own resources and from the European Union’s resources because it saw that state aid could not be expected. Unfortunately, when we look at the picture forward, I'm afraid, given what I'm listening to in your debate today, that it's obviously moving in the direction that things are improving here, it won't. Let's get out of the way. We want nothing more than to examine the transparency of the use of funds that the Court of Auditors reminds us to ensure that measures are taken to improve the situation in this area, so that those who need help can also receive them. Let's make one move in this direction and do something for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, prepare Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Court of Auditors audit report presented by President Vese on television, I must say that at that time a large part of the television audience was struggling with their heads and they could not believe that this was the case, but the pensioners said, yes, this is our life. Today we receive a response report in this National Assembly. I must say that no Member or Member has said that he does not agree that the situation of pensioners and politicians in this area in Slovenia is worrying. The situation of pensioners in Slovenia is demeaning, and if we do not achieve a change in the situation with this debate today, because we are the legislative body that decides, makes decisions, gives instructions and requests to the Government, then without being entitled to new rights, we do not deserve the old. I must say that if it is said here that for 16 years the law on long-term care, which is strictly necessary, has not been built for 14 years, the pension in Slovenia is shamefully low, while all of us find that citizens and citizens are getting older – in short, this problem needs to be solved because it is becoming increasingly and increasingly attractive, an ever-increasing proportion of people are being covered. We are talking about over 600,000 citizens and citizens. From this, today's debate – it is good that it is taking so long, and although there are not many of us in the Chamber now – there must be concrete conclusions that will lead to improvement. I want to say this. Immediately thereafter, the question of the means to do so is raised. I say it's money. This government, and especially the parties in the coalition, and also in the opposition, are saying that we will adopt the largest budget so far in the history of Slovenia. Excuse me, the funds will have to be redistributed to the benefit of the pensioners, to the benefit of the more socially vulnerable groups of the population. But the fact is, the government decides to share this money. She decides where the priorities go. There are 100 million in the budget for additional arms purchases — for whom? Who are we gonna defend? Major General Alenka Ermenc spoke to a camera and microphone yesterday with a weapons fair in the United States. Do we need to defend the humiliated, destitute pensioners, the low - paying workers in this country, or the young people who are staying outside the National Assembly because they do not have a solved housing issue?Oh, my God! Colleagues and fellow Members, including pensioners, can come before Parliament and demand their rights. I wonder why they have not done so, given their situation, which emerges from the Court of Auditors' audit report. And that I'm a little specific. For 16 years, a law on long-term care is made. I'm from Celje. We have the House of Elders next to Savinja. There is a department where people with dementia and those who need 100 percent 24-hour help have been there for over 16 years. It is well - known how much medical care is needed, how much money is needed to do so, so that it is not necessary to have a foreign counselor or how much we pay for 16 years to study, and we are doing pioneering projects to solve it. This problem can be solved very quickly. Mr Fakin, former Minister of Health, said: "There are now more than a thousand people in Slovenian hospitals each day who need long-term care and have no place to put them." And that's more expensive. Why isn't that done? Why is this damage done and, above all, degrading to those who need it? Come in. Help at home. All of you have already said, and you, Mr Secretary, have mentioned that home aid is today: at least 51% must be provided by the local community. True, but the other part must be provided by the pensioners themselves. Where did they come from, from these low pensions, after they pay all the other bills? A large part of them have pensions below EUR 600, with a protective allowance. Where are they gonna pay for this? Every day, every other day six, seven, eight euros. Count it down, please! This must go to the state level, as you mentioned earlier, and the state must provide a source of funding for this and make assistance at home accessible to all who need it. In this way, however, we will be able to relieve the pressure on the homes of pensioners. And as far as the frame is concerned. In the homes of the pensioners, the staff is significantly underpaid and shamelessly low. We can be happy that these difficult things — caring for the elderly, which is a very important, very difficult matter — are being done. Here too we will have to take one step forward in Slovenia and focus on those who are users of home for the elderly, as well as those who are employees there. There is no solution to the search for concessions, as previously said by the secretary from the Ministry of Labour, who had been here recently, said that concessions would spread. We've heard concessionaires charge 28% higher costs or even more because they invested in a pensioner's home, and they create their own profits. However, they are economical in terms of labour costs, in short, that the workers needed by pensioners are few. And this. Eleven thousand people are waiting for the homes of the pensioners. It's true, it's money. Before that, I mentioned Major General Alenka Ermenc, who buys guns and guns in America. I would also mention another minister who talks a lot about pensioners and I agree with her here. I am talking about the state infrastructure project, which we will talk about next week in the National Assembly, which according to the profession is overestimated six times. This six-fold overvaluation, which will be paid from public funds, would mean that some homes of pensioners can be built from these funds. These are things that we really need to solve, so I think that today our debate is a response report and a request from the Government – and we will support it here – that things change in this area to adopt a programme of measures and means to improve immediately the social situation of pensioners in Slovenia, more than 600,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. For this reason, the Left will support and vote in favour of these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič has the word to prepare Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u72	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! There have been a lot of like words, simplified solutions – because we only take this decision and the matter will be resolved, for decades or for decades, things have not been resolved, and today we can resolve everything backwards and forward by pressing one button. I'd love to agree with that, but I can't. Because I cannot agree with some simplified solutions in terms of, because money is enough, we have forgotten to build houses, money goes into the wrong hands. Yeah, yeah, maybe ever, but if we look at the picture of our budget, it's obvious that there's not enough money for pensions to make a contribution to the pension fund as well. I understand that some things in the past may not have been resolved because of financial reasons, even because of the crisis, but I am not sure that, even if we are united today, when one marriage comes to the table, we will vote for it. This is because we will fight whether we are for the public homes of the elderly or we are for private or we are for some intermediate option. We're not gonna agree on anything. If there is anything else that bothers me in this debate, it is that we have only one topic to discuss today. Look, it's a very important topic, but we can't do this without wondering who's gonna pay for it. These are young, young employees. Can we solve this beyond intergenerational solidarity? We can't, but even if it's one time we're going to enjoy these new nursing homes, maybe it's just us, because I don't know if they're going to be built first. What I'm saying is that we have to ask ourselves what our society will be like in the future. It's not enough to know there'll be a lot of older people. Some statistics show that the proportion of older than 65 years of age increased from 10.6% to 17.9% only during the period of independence from 1990 to 2015. We are all aware, and we are all united, that the elderly need care, that we will need it one day, but we are probably all aware that this will then be paid by a generation that will work, which will be employed. With all the negative demographic trends, when too few children are born, when a large number of young people go abroad, when we do not have some tangible population growth, we may wonder who will finance it. I doubt Santa will come here and pay for it. If we want to be constructive in solving this important issue – I think the Court of Auditors has really set a mirror for us here – we need to address it in view of some substantial wide range of problems in our society. So, economic growth. Where will the young people who pay in the budget from which the money goes to their homes be employed? What will be the economic growth? Will the environment be safe? Don't tell me if they have all the neighbors, even those who have declared themselves neutral, some kind of weaponry, but we're the only ones in the world who don't need it. And I'm the last militant, but I'm not naive. Even Switzerland, which is independent, has such an army that we can hide from it. Then the question of birthrates. This is probably one of the issues that we will have to deal with at the same time with the issue of resolving long-term care, home of pensioners, addressing the issues of the elderly and all that comes with it. We will simply not get to the bottom of the matter if we say that the problem will now solve, I don't know, the adoption of today's decision, 10 new homes for pensioners who, I don't know, should not be private on the left hand side of Parliament, should not be public on the right hand side, and should we adopt the law on the demographic fund that we also need. This will not solve the problem. We will simply have to come up with one common denominator, in which areas we will all be dealing with this issue, which is broad, which is a problem of negative demographic trends, to solve where we can even unify, because today I hear that they are one against concessionaires, one against the public or they estimate that concessionaires are also good. In short, here – we know what it's like, I don't know, to have a quick fight about education. We must therefore find out where we can be united and, at the end, give some support to the ministry. I only remember the law on long-term care and the law on health care and health insurance in the previous term, when it began to talk about that it would be necessary, instead of what is being abolished, to make some new contributions, to introduce some new ones, such as taxes. There was a fine in this house — and we will not raise taxes. Yeah, look, if we're gonna have any favors, we're gonna have to. The question that we are considering today is therefore of a broader nature. I believe that the whole event relating to the Court of Auditors' report is such that this debate will keep this debate alive and also all the activities of the Ministry in the future. From the Ministry we have heard some encouraging information about additional home beds, about the possibility of building new units of public institutions based on the principle of public-private partnership and so on and so on. But the fact is that all of this, even if duplicated, will not be enough, and other questions concerning our future will also need to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u74	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This afternoon we are talking about long-term care in the Republic of Slovenia. I am sure that this issue, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is of course also with a strong incentive in the Court of Auditors' report, is very important. I also believe that – not that these representatives of the Government who are with us today – would not be enough, but – this complex issue would be right for both ministers to be present, but in the introduction of this point, when Mrs Furman had the view that he would also be the President of the Government with us. Sometimes I feel like the government's representatives can't wait for this meeting to end and we'll split up and forget it tomorrow. Slovenia is not only the most prestigious street in Ljubljana. Slovenia is also Haloze, Prekmurje, Goriška hill, Koroška, Dolenjska, also where people live very hard. And there's people waiting outside the door of the house. We're talking 74 million today. The opposite side proves to us that this was not used, that this was all well-intentioned, that some information to the Minister of Cohesion, who resigned, said informally that he had resigned because the funds would have to be returned. But probably not his fault, because it's not possible for a minister to blame the need to return within six months, that's probably the past job. I've noticed somewhere that there's going to be a little bit of a feeling, about what millions we're talking about, that we gave 10 million euros to migrants last year. For people who first set foot in Slovenia. In the 2020 budget, however, we have $5 million for investments in homes for our citizens and citizens who have worked fairly for 40 years to pay in the state treasury, waiting outside the door. If there's anything wrong with us here, if I'm personally wrong about what I'm saying, tell me, I'm leaving this National Assembly. This year, I tracked the data in February that the government has spent an additional 4.1 million money on migrants. When I was on the Education Committee – we have an estimated $5 million for 450 primary schools and we are talking about 74 million all afternoon. For citizens and citizens who co-created this country, who worked for 40 years at work or more, they paid a fair wage in the pension fund, and today they have pensions of 350, 450 or 500 euros waiting outside the door with their relatives waiting for a much-needed bed at home. I had this feeling today, like we were trying to mix the house employees up a little bit, and the key people who care about homes. I am sure that before 99%, for the first time, those who run these homes, for the second time, all the employees, of course, should wear a hat – so to speak in Styria – put the hat down. People who work for 700 euros know under what conditions. But under those conditions, one day we will be, too. If we cross the border, Austria or Germany, they have much better conditions and a significantly higher salary. Speaking of minister, one or the other. I've said before, if I say something wrong, I'm willing to leave this state council, or if I'm doing something contrary to this country. During the previous term of office, one was protected by the Minister of Health and the maximum damage to the entire mandate. But when we stepped into the hallway, we heard, see if the minister left, the government would go to hell. The same thing happened at the Ministry of Labour. Government representatives. I'm already a second term in the National Assembly, so I don't know much about things. But once again, let's be responsible about these things, not because of us today, but we will be at the same door tomorrow. People are waiting today, sick, needing this bed, and relatives can't take care of these people because of their jobs. These people in the Republic of Slovenia deserve this bed and that they are cared for by those people I mentioned earlier that they are the best. It is difficult to find anywhere in Europe that relatives will then have to pay for someone who has spent 40 years at work and paid for at the state treasury. Not today to talk about 74 million as if we are now — as if these documents had fallen out of the air. It's irresponsible. With regard to investment for 5 million in all homes in 2020, it seems to me that if – and I do not want to offend – I would be the minister, I would thank the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, or for education If you are not able to cut off one tape for an institution, whether it is an education or a home, I think something is wrong in this country, where the President of the Government says we have the largest budget – 10.3 billion euros. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor Perič to prepare Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I think it's hard to find someone here who can throw away, and the first one throws a stone at this problem that we're dealing with. I don't think this rock-throwing has ever worked, and today it can't do any good. Earlier, colleagues Zorčič described very clearly what the dimension of the problem is and how complex its resolution is, how much energy has to be invested and, above all, we do not have some instant solutions. Pressing the button won't fix things, unfortunately, I can tell. And here I think we all agree, as we all agree today that this problem is burning, that this problem is complex. However, we will be much less in agreement when we have some very specific solutions on the table. There have been some solutions in the past mandate, and we have seen and heard that certain procedures have not ceased. And I hope to say that even if we get some concrete proposals from the Government, this debate will be much louder, much more boisterous and much less unanimous. Because we're all saying the same thing today. After all, we listen to some observations again about some serious liberals, some neoliberals who do not have feelings for people, for social, and if I am purely plastic, today both SDS on one side and Levi on the other and all of us are saying the same thing – that people need to be helped. So I have to deny these obviouss again that this government and, in general, this national assembly have no social sense. No, and at the final stage, the budget, which we will soon have on the table, will confirm this. After all, a lot of money was also made available for social services. But the fact is, we have a lot more challenges and needs than money. So it is at home, and so it is at the level of the municipalities, as it is at the level of the state as well. There's no special science here. We have also given many words today to the issue of concessions. Concessions yes or no. In an ideal environment, it is absolutely better that this function is taken over by the state, building infrastructure, providing some favourable conditions for work, at the end of the stage also pay, and it provides adequate access to social services for those who need and need these services. Where resources are less available, concessions are one option to activate private capital to make this financial crisis easier for us here. However, the question is, of course, whether then those who benefit from this service must contribute to this equation, whether it is appropriate to make this difference between those who are in the concessional home for the elderly and those who are in the public. There is certainly something else to move here, but again, there are some solutions with today to tomorrow, because then there is a need to provide some additional resources, some additional resources and we are back at the very beginning of the problem. If I'm just trying to finish up and touch one thing. I have been thinking today about what else I could contribute to this debate, because you have also said a lot of useful and good things to your colleagues. I'd say so. Dementa is that problem, that challenge in a health and social sense that we will have to tackle as a society as soon as possible. If someone doesn't know exactly what dementia means, I suggest you take a look at an investigator, let's say the one about DUTB is very visual when people forget. So this is some phenomenon that is also present in politics sometimes. But now I'm talking about another dementia. What we can do, after all, as citizens, is help NGOs and societies. I know one who does a very good and noble work, this is the Memorial Society – Alzheimer's. We can become their supporters and friends and, even in this way, with some activation as citizens, as responsible citizens, we help those in distress. After all, it will also help that when we have someone older or someone with dementia in front of us, we are not impatient with him. If I conclude, I hope that there will be the unity that we see now in having a problem with long-term care, even when we have very concrete solutions on the table and when we have to give up something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomić, ready for Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. The debate is coming to an end. We've heard a lot and a lot. We all agree that the population in Slovenia is ageing, but the country has no strategy to deal with this problem. Of course, these controversial 74,5 million, to which the Court of Auditors has pointed, is very responsive. The coalition Members will say that this is overblown, we will say that the Court of Auditors has pointed out something and that this is indeed disproportionate money, given that we do not build a home for the elderly. As far as I know how to build, I think we can build about 10 homes with that kind of money. But here in Levica, we have made some recommendations that solve a number of problems, and I would expect the coalition to support these recommendations. Above all, at the initiative of Srebrna nit we proposed that the Government should meet all the conditions for completing the home, say in Vrtojba and in Nova Gorica, and include them in the network of public homes. There we know, in Vrtojba, is a DUTB-owned building, where 120 beds and 38 shelters are protected, which could be very quickly qualified for this activity. For the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia shows us, if you Google it, that 25 thousand registered applicants. And even if we say, and you tell us, some of them are duplicated, but the current is 11,000. Google and you'll see that there's only one free spot, that's Drava's. And the question is, now that I'm saying it, whether it's still free or not. So this problem is completely serious, and what's terrible is that the state then gave concessions to some rich people or private people and foreign and domestic corporations now invade this sphere, too, I will say, into this sphere. Which I find unacceptable from the point of view that our pensions then go into the pockets of some other, some foreigners, who, however, take away what our people have earned and receive as their own pension, out of the country. That's making the state cash register worse. We mentioned jobs, underpaid employees in these homes. Of course, there is a lot of work with the elderly, but on the other hand it is totally unacceptable that you have to pay for services such as clothing, hearing aid, and help with sitting in a wheelchair. I just can't imagine what it means to have no money and no one's gonna get you in a wheelchair. Incontinence diapers are also limited. As a social country, can we allow a change in diapers, a change in diapers, and after everything he's put through in life — he's worked his whole life and now he's powerless — but he lives in his own, I'll say, excrement? Which is terrible. In short, the long-term supply system is falling apart, and here the country does not have a strategy and we have suggested that the Ministry should immediately check and limit the supply price of concessionaires charging higher prices. These are perfectly rational proposals, and if our Article 101 of the Social Protection Act dictates a methodology for the pricing of services by the Minister responsible for social protection. [[…]] It is said that our proposals are fully feasible, completely realistic, and I think that these recommendations can be supported if you want to be good to your elderly, because we will soon be old too.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare for Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In its findings, the Court of Auditors made a number of observations and summaries. Allow me to read some: the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs has not provided comprehensive information to the public and beneficiaries on the possibility of choosing between individual accessible forms of protection, as we have recommended in 2008; the Ministry of Labour has not planned measures to attract caregivers at home, as we recommended in 2008; the Ministry of Labour has not planned or implemented measures to provide additional sites in the daily forms of institutional protection and has not contributed to the achievement of the objectives of the resolution; the Ministry of Labour has not carried out any measures and activities to expand the network of providers of common forms of social protection and thus to increase the number of users of such assistance. And a whole bunch of other things that the ministry hasn't done in all these years, and if we didn't have this report on the table today, things would probably be going slowly or nothing would have happened or, as I said, would have happened very slowly. If the government's decision years ago to work more on non-institutional protection, I ask the Ministry what we have done in terms of how many day centres we have set up at this time, how much in the time of the previous government, how much in the last year of this government, how many other projects, housing communities and something else. But we do know that in all these years we have not built any home for the elderly, that the country does not give money for schools, for kindergartens. Although at some point we had quite an increase in fertility, we do not invest in it, but everything is constantly hanging on to the congregations, and you do not give them money or give it to them. My colleague Muršičeva was very critical in her implementation, but I would like to remind her that Mr Svetlik was their minister, his State Secretary Mrs Kopač Mrakova, and Mrs Kopač Mrakova, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in the previous term. The draft law was drafted, she herself said that she would never confirm it because she increased the costs for people or hung more costs for her family, but, please, this was prepared by her government, her minister, her minister from her party, and it's a little funny now to tell us why we're calling such a meeting and why we didn't know what else to do. It is also clear from the Court of Auditors' report that the Ministry has no information, who and what assistance it needs. Even though we have a bunch of data, we just obviously don't know how to read the things we have. People are given invalidity pensions or benefits and so on. There's a lot to figure out from all this. Even though we spend a lot of money on various analyses, the Court of Auditors practically calculated some things for us and provided us with the information we need to plan. And that is also stated by the Court of Auditors — if you do not have information on needs and so on about human resources needs, then you cannot carry out any measures that respond to these needs. My colleague Muršičev also said that Zujf caused a lot of problems. Yes, but Zujf was a one-off measure for two years during the crisis, but all governments allowed it to be extended only and we actually caused problems, but where they did not need to be. They did not employ the nurses they needed, but they were employed at the ministries without problems. After Zujf, many of us should also be at peace when he fulfils the conditions, but we still have a number of professors who have long met the conditions, as well as at ministries and elsewhere, who should be retired. But we didn't hire those we needed, and we didn't hire nurses. You know, there's no problem with Zuyfa, that's the problem with you prolonging it, because Zuyf, as it were said, was envisaged as a one-time, temporary measure in a time of crisis. That you have extended it, first Mrs Bratuškova two years and then for four years, Mr Cerar, that we do not say that one thing is still in force, after one year of the Sharča government. And now to plead with the government that Zuyf has accepted as a temporary measure for two years, but race is a little ugly, and to read us. We had to do some things at the time, and we also had to do them, unlike the next governments, which – if it was not already in the money budget, because immediately after the crisis really couldn't do anything, we now have a lot of European money to leave because we don't know how to use it. The SD representative, Mr Koprivc, said in his position that these were European funds that did not necessarily need to be spent at all. So you say in advance that you will not spend it because you cannot spend it or because you do not want it or any other way. This only shows to me that you do not mean anything by European means. Maybe there's an example from the audit when we talked about pilot projects and so on. The Court of Auditors says: we estimate that the Ministry of Labour should examine the needs for different types of assistance and take appropriate action. Therefore, it planned to develop pilot projects, support technology and ambivalent intelligence for the extension of independent life, for which funds amounting to EUR 882 000 were planned, of which EUR 325 000 in 2018, and should be implemented by 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Nothing has been done, nor has it joined this implementation. So it's money, but we don't know whether to spend it or how to use it. I'll support our recommendations. I will also support some of the recommendations made by Levica and hope that something will finally move in this area in a positive direction for our people.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u81	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion. Now here's the thing. You have the floor, Mrs Matey Udovč, prepare for Mr Franz Breznik. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let me point out that the intention of MEPs and Members is to convene the 27th Extraordinary Meeting for the full legitimate use of the instrument of parliamentary democracy, but I wonder what this meeting is intended for, what are the expectations of the initiators and, of course, of other stakeholders, particularly the competent ministries. If the aim of the proposer is to place an additional burden on the competent ministry with this requirement, they have certainly succeeded. If the purpose of this extraordinary session is to work together to solve the long-term care problem, which we have been talking about so much and so much lately, or we are talking about so much, then I think we have come a long way. Or perhaps the applicant simply wants to discuss spending money in public administration for the various projects identified by the Court of Auditors. Then we should completely put it another way. At this point, I must make it very clear that I am advocating transparent spending of public money. Not only in this case, which we are discussing today, across all ministries or with all budgetary users, should there be audits on the use of funds, transparent and economic spending for budget users. As we see, there are too many projects that have been commissioned, produced and paid, and there is no realisation of the content of the projects. On the basis of such projects, I fear that there are other forms of spending of budgetary money, such as various advices, promotions, analyses, research – the imagination can be endless. So I can get back to our subject. I have already said many times myself and have stressed the need to respect and enforce the findings of the courts and other supervisory authorities. In this particular case, I am convinced that the purpose of the reference to an extraordinary meeting is in such a short time after the revision of a more populist nature. The Court of Auditors’ audit was carried out 16. 9. 2019. If the proposaler actually wanted to help solve long-term care, he would have waited at least 90 days for the Ministry's response report. In this way, all together would have more relevant information to discuss or decide on the proposal. Otherwise, I hope that we are all aware of the legal nature of the recommendation made by the National Assembly. Since it is a political act and not a legal act, we do not have legal effects. The findings of the audit report and the response report to the audit report should be thoroughly examined by law enforcement authorities, including the State Defence Office, and any compensation or even criminal liability of individual actors. The proposal for a measure referred to in the first point by reference to examine the amount of the funds allocated is not sufficiently clearly defined. The question is whether to determine the amount of funds allocated, as already found by the Court of Auditors, or whether to determine the appropriateness of the amount of funds allocated. Thus, it may be concluded from point 1 that the Court of Auditors’ conclusion itself is sufficient to establish compensation and criminal liability in the competent authorities. But it's nothing new. Therefore, we do not need to call an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We must recall only the provision and obligation of Article 145 of the Law on the Criminal Procedure for the Probation of Offences, for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under an official obligation. I am convinced, however, that this energy should rather be used for a more constructive debate on how we will put work in this area in the future. In the following year, we will have to adopt a resolution on the national social protection programme, where we will also have to find solutions and measures for long-term care. I hope that we are all well aware of the demographic picture in Slovenia. We all know very well and clearly about the rapid ageing of the population and, consequently, about the increased need for long-term care for all categories. Only by appropriate communication and by patient dialogue of all stakeholders can we prepare and adopt measures that will systematically ensure long-term care for all beneficiaries. And if I go back to the beginning. The proposer proposes that the National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take appropriate measures to ensure the accessibility and availability of social protection services to all beneficiaries and, within 30 days of the adoption of this Decision, shall report in writing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, this decision again points to the seriousness of this reference to this meeting and the willingness to address the issue of long-term care. The applicant himself notes that long-term care is not systematically regulated and is already stuck in the definition itself. On the other hand, two ministries are responsible for regulating this problem. In this context, it is extremely unrealistic and irresponsible to impose such requirements within such a short period of time. Long-term care has been being handled systematically for more than 10 years and we have not been able to resolve it properly, so we cannot save it within a month, but we can also invent such measures. But instead of just thinking about it. Long-term care is also our future. Or as the Slovenian proverb says: As we will fast, so will we lie down. That's why it's not a topic for political populism, but it's our reality here and now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u83	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ms. Proposer, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much. In view of what was the discussion of the predecessor, my colleague, I must say that in view of all the time we spent here today, I ask, a respected colleague – where were you sitting? Not one of your conclusions or our proposals that was meant to be understood was understood in the right direction. I'll start at the end, at the second conclusion, where you pointed out that we want you to arrange long-term care within 30 days. I quote our conclusion: "We want appropriate measures to be taken to ensure the accessibility and accessibility of social protection services to all beneficiaries." Therefore, I would like to ask, fellow Members and colleagues, that before quoting our conclusions, you first have any questions about the content and the social welfare services and the long-term care system and so on. Why did we propose such a decision? Because the Court of Auditors has imposed on you or has found that you have not complied with the recommendations already proposed by the first audit and are essentially amendments to the legal rules that the Ministry of Labour might have adopted and have not adopted. And since the Ministry of Labour didn't accept them, we have a problem today. First time. We have problems in waiting lines in our homes because the criteria are not precisely defined, and because they are not precisely defined, it can even occur that waiting species are skipping and in fact the very purpose of the criteria is not at all what it should be. That's the first problem. The precise determination of the criteria shall be within the competence of the Ministry or, if authorised, the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia. The second problem we have in institutional protection, which I have repeated several times today. Lack of personnel because there are no specific standards or norms for the part concerning social protection. This is also a lack of existing legislation, which has been the Ministry of Labour for all these years – and we know who had a 10-year portfolio in the government or who was in the government – has failed to manage. Inequal treatment of users, an unfair pricing system, all of these are the consequences of a lack of regulatory changes. Some standards and standards have even been drafted by the Community of Social Institutions and have not been published. They have not been published at the Ministry of Labour, and because they are not made public, they are not valid. This is a problem in the context of providing the current system of social protection services to all beneficiaries. Social protection services, however, are covered by such institutional protection, which I have now highlighted and are at the level that the Ministry should eliminate, have not eliminated or even approached to address, and this is evident in the audit of the Court of Auditors and, on the other hand, the Community forms are here. Since the Ministry has for 10 years somehow been trying to change its mind to resolve the situation with community forms, the only community form currently under way is home aid — this because the financial burden at the Ministry has been placed on municipalities or local communities. Once again, the problem is that neither the Government nor the competent ministries have any information on how many those who would need the help of all these different social services. 90% of these are unknown only to know what forms of assistance they need. These are all the problems the Ministry has not addressed in this case. Certain corrections or data could only be published in the Official Journal, as I have already said, but these standards and standards could be resolved at least one segment. What's the occasion for today's session? The colleague said earlier that she advocated transparent spending of public money – yes, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party we advocate transparent spending of public money. I will now just quote what the Court of Auditors has found in its audit. The Court of Auditors draws attention to “the lack of uniform, inaccuracies, unreliable data”, which should provide for a further system of long-term care, which will then allow you to carry out these pilot projects for €74 million and so on. The Court of Auditors shall draw attention to the non-economic nature of public money for these purposes. The Court of Auditors notes that it is not possible to identify the content of the projects or the objectives to be achieved through the projects. The Court of Auditors notes that the ministries carry out and plan projects on certain ideas rather than on identified or identified needs and financial capabilities. I will not read all these anomalies found by the Court of Auditors in its audit here today, but, dear colleagues, if this is not sufficient reason for you to convene an extraordinary meeting today, then I do not know what is sufficient reason. In fact, the fact is that the Court of Auditors has more than obvious set up a mirror for you, and now I believe it's a little difficult to argue all these cases here. But the facts are like that, the audit has found out a lot. What questions do we ask ourselves, or what do we want with the recommendations we have proposed? We would like to make recommendations – and this was also mentioned in the introduction – to identify who is responsible for the delay in all the projects envisaged. You yourself said that projects were not being implemented, and the Court of Auditors also told you that you were late, but you have European funds, right? So we know what happens if the projects don't work. However, we are already used to this: the latest report on European funds drawback, 25 per cent success. So much for your government's success. We want to know who is responsible for the recklessly projected spending of 74 million and a half public money. So, we want to find out who is responsible and the recklessly intended use has been determined by the Court of Auditors in its audit, not by the Slovenian Democratic Party. And we claim responsibility for that. We want to know what the real goals are for the purpose of using these funds. This is because, from all these long-term, comprehensive debates, both on the committees and today, there has been no response yet, what are the content, what are the concrete objectives that you will achieve with these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u85	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. If I understand correctly, we have a replica of Mrs. Matey Udowicz. Does that hold? [[Yeah.]] Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u86	Thank you. I'll be very short. My colleague would only add to her extensive debate that I am aware of this dimension and this issue. She herself found out how wide she was, how big this issue was. Your proposal states that the Ministry must take appropriate measures to ensure that social protection services are accessible and accessible to all beneficiaries within 30 days. Such a dimension could not be solved within 10 years, only in 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u87	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for the replica. Now you have the word, Mr Franz Breznik, and prepare yourself, Mr Jan Mahnič. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I have no more than five minutes to discuss, but I would like to do some analysis of today's debate. Let me begin by saying that the recommendations prepared by my colleagues will, of course, be confirmed today. I have to admit, I've been reading the Court's audit for at least two hours, and I think the case is scary. If we look at the chronology of today’s debates – suddenly they are all at fault. Andrej Vizjak, who did not lead the ministry for a year, was guilty of making a pension reform at the time, while then negotiating with the unions, with everyone, working reform, and with the unions about Zujf. If they hadn't done this to me at the time, maybe the pensioners and those modest pensions wouldn't have gotten it because it would have blown up, literally. What is at the heart of today's debate is that the common point of all, if any, is not enough money. Money is too small, and in the end, people who have been forgotten from God in the last lifetime of enjoying the autumn of their work. It is important to make it clear – from God they are forgotten mainly by the left parties, those who are you full of the mouth of the social state. What we find today is that Slovenia is not a social state, Slovenia is still a socialist state. In the social state, people in the most fertile periods of their work work work, create, educate themselves to give the country higher, added value and that money is in the budget more. The essence of the socialist state is that part of the policy supports laziness, supports sloths, people who find themselves at all ends and places, maintains the state of great social support for people who do not need them, maintains them and invites illegal migrants to Slovenia to stay here just to give more to the social community, while the old partisan rules “do not want to give their own” – therefore, foreign funds, foreign European funds for institutional protection, even for the homes of the elderly, and we do not need their own. This is the socialist policy of the Slovenian Left, which has nothing to do with any European Left. And the ministry we are talking about today, especially the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities – this has been the domain of this ministry for decades, all the time. Even if some right-wing minister came in for a few good months, I could say that there was a whole frame there at the moment that enjoyed years and years and was filled with the mouth of the social state. The essence of all of this is that it is full — the most terrifying thing for me is not only that those in the home do not receive social protection, but that only 8.9% of all 395 thousand beneficiaries received social protection. In particular those who are, say, on many farms along the Slovenian Gorica and wider in Slovenia. Now you can imagine where else those people, who receive farmers' pensions ranging from 200 to 300 euros, those who have been destroyed by socialism for decades, those who have received state pensions by way of independence and who have somehow been recognised in the context of the correction of injustices, and those who have just been taken by SD Minister Svetlik these state pensions and are now playing on their smaller farms. Where are these people? Dear colleagues, 2 billion more is in the budget than in 2012. Where did you put that money? You've given it to the new 20,000 in the public sector, totally unemployed in the market, you haven't adopted any reform on the school system, so we have to import foreign labour, and then this money is somehow lost between the so-called electoral base of the left, these are footsteps, lazy people, mostly those who are in institutions, social workers, and those who are burdening serious people who want to work. And in the end, he wins for the weakest. So we collect stoppers, so people literally play at home, and they have to give their parents, who have worked well for 40 years, extra homes for the elderly. The point is that we need to talk about it and that for 10 years nothing has been done about it. It is true that today we are creating fate, including our fates, whether we are going to be in the homes of the elderly there after Bosnia and Herzegovina or in Serbia in some kind of a charter where we will be changing diapers for a few days, or whether we will take care of a man of a decent age. The ones that you are the loudest about pensioners, who, after all, are competing with each other, who gives more for pensioners – I have always said, the best policy is real economic policy, more added value in the Slovenian budget. Last but not least, it is necessary to deal with this and, last but not least, it is enough money, including for pensioners, even for those who need institutional protection. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the difference — in what I say — between the social state and the socialist state.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Now you have the word, Mr. Jan Mahnič, and prepare yourself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u90	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Previously, a colleague of Matthew the Widow from the SMC made two nonsensees or statements that strongly contradict each other. On the one hand, she said it was for transparent spending of public money, but on the other hand, she said she did not know why we were having a meeting today. It is a pity that the previous term of office has not already been included in the Government, if it is for transparent spending, then perhaps we would not have spent 130 000 euros on some lame model, from which we rightly suspect that the campaign of the Modern Centre for State Elections was financed. But this fellow, Möderndorfer, does not meet with his investigative committee. And if she really was for a transparent spending of money, then she would also know why the session is today and she would support this session and even after she said, we're just listening here, not what we're going to do – she didn't say anything in her seven minutes about what they're going to do. So, here we have again the Court of Auditors findings, on which we have made a recommendation, are very clear and I think everyone understands. [[…]] That is: that the National Assembly recommends to the Government, the Ministries of Labour and Health, that they initiate all the procedures within their competence and that they immediately investigate the amount of funds allocated for projects that are intended to simply demonstrate whether the envisaged solutions for long-term care are appropriate or not, and that they initiate all the necessary procedures against those responsible to determine their compensation and criminal liability. Who could be against such a conclusion? Who can resist investigating who is responsible? Only those who know how business went down here. And how did they go, colleagues and colleagues? Advisory contracts, research, analysis – these are all legal places. The minister of one ministry gave some analysis, a study to a priest, a party-elect in exchange for directing about a thousand, 2,000, 3,000 euros to the party's national election account. It's a legal end. 70 million euros. Let me tell you how many cubic meters, how many cubic feet of concrete have been bought for 70 million euros, how many beds have been bought for this money, or are you going to buy them for that. These are questions people are asking and they want to understand, not analysis. How many cubics of concrete were bought to build homes for the elderly? All mouths are full of public, public, public – when was the last time you built a public home for the elderly? All the lionesses on concessions while at the same time fighting the concessionaires. If there were no concessions, we wouldn't have a home for the elderly. When was the last time you built it and when did you think it was? The one who is most responsible, colleagues and colleagues, Anja Kopač Dark, is today the State Secretary in the cabinet of the Prime Minister for the award. My main question is what's he doing there? I haven't seen her in months! Is she one of you? Nothing's going on. He doesn't say anything. When we had problems here because of those — what were they? – missed social transfers, scholarships and so on, did not respond to anything, instead had to be defended by the Minister for Social Affairs. Put on those T-shirts where you have Social Democrats written I'll wear a red star, rather write Where's Anya Digger Dark? I think it'd be better if we saw where he is and what he's doing. Because someone who's so screwed up socialism that millions have flown out, but we don't have one cubic metre of concrete, one cubic of concrete, from which actually those who live with miserable pensions would have something, nothing answers! It is therefore necessary to adopt these conclusions. These conclusions do not condemn anyone, but they do allow someone to be convicted of all the crimes that have taken place.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u91	Replica, Mrs. Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mahnic, I just want to say that it seems pointless to repeat things like you repeat them, because some of us are not parrots. You know, that's why I only told the facts that stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u93	Just to consult if there's a replica on the replica. So, let's move on. The word is yours. Dušan Verbič, prepare for Mrs Lidija Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that, President. A nice greeting to all present, but I could extend it to those who are not present! I firmly believe that political debates on this subject are still necessary. In particular, because such discussions point to weaknesses that still have a bearing on certain individuals, groups or I can say specific groups of people that we can characterise as vulnerable groups. Why is this my firm stand? In particular, because the topic or basis for today's debate is the findings of the Court of Auditors, and I am also adding to this a very clear position of the Ombudsman. The debate between Members and Members during the afternoon must have touched the substance of the findings of the Court of Auditors several times. I am here distanced from these so-called cash flows, but I am more in the position, and my debate goes in the direction of what today's debate, which is political, helps those who were yesterday, not today, need care and care in homes for the elderly. Surely my debate is more focused on this type of problem, on Ljubljana and the environment, because I believe that the situation is slightly different across Slovenia. But I can say about Ljubljana and the surrounding area that it is a disgrace to have order in the form of protection for help, care and care in homes with between 700 and thousands of applicants. In homes where they have a category and are somewhat market-oriented, but only a few small or smaller numbers, we are still talking about a few hundred roles that are practically waiting in order. And simply not they do not know how to solve this matter, so that in some human way they are provided with care, care by the qualified, if I can well call it, caregivers by the medical profession. But what should really concern everyone in this national council is the Court of Auditors' conclusion, where it is very clearly stated that there are no precise criteria by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is the criteria and criteria for admission to institutions. This is why we have such great waiting types and simply the powerlessness of individuals. Furthermore, standards for care in nursing homes have not established all the necessary human resources standards for social care in nursing homes and the like. I also believe that a very alarming message has been written, as I mentioned, by the Ombudsman, who has written several times to note that the current situation is critical in the homes of older citizens and other welfare institutions. I think that if such messages are from persons representing an institution such as the Ombudsman, there should be a lot of movement in our country. I do not condemn or criticize, but on this occasion I must say where responsibility is in the Republic of Slovenia. Following a finding by the Court of Auditors from 2007 on these resources. The proof is that it can be said that it is the responsibility of the holders of public functions or officials in the position, not only in the social field, but also in other areas, obviously only in the laws, regulations and rules, and there is simply no actual responsibility. I think that, as part of such a record of the Court of Auditors, the finding is alarming and the responsibility of the holders of public powers should be substantially shifted in the Republic of Slovenia. Surely we can discuss in the context of whether what is stated in the proposal is material, criminal, compensation. I stand alone in the view that many recommendations have been made in recent years, in the past term, as well as in the current mandate of the National Assembly, many recommendations have been written down – does anything happen? I'm gonna end up in the part where I started. How can such a recommendation help those who needed care and care at home yesterday? Given that various issues are being addressed in the political debate – I must admit that when I have accompanied individuals a little bit, I am in the position that they may not fully be aware of this problem. That's an acute problem. And I am of the opinion that this is not a political problem. This is actually a problem, a problem for individuals, citizens who are at an age when they really need some help from society. For in the past, at the time of their work activities, they have also contributed a great deal to this society and are justified, not politically, to make sure that society also in this part does not wait for them 900 or thousands in order, and not that it is simply not known whether one year or three years from now someone will die in order, and so on. These are things that are unacceptable and not humane to our citizens and citizens. I emphasize, I believe that in smaller towns, in smaller places, it may not be that acute. What confirms my right thinking is that even when the debate has highlighted that somehow too much of this economic aspect is taken into account in so-called caregivers – it is completely irrelevant. For even in homes that work according to the principle of economic logic and are almost similar to their care, if I can simulate a little bit, like the seasonal price of a hotel with three stars, which is not so small, there is no room to somehow ensure care and care. Here's the problem. But that's the problem since 2007. Responsibility, I will say again, not only in the social field, but also in other areas, is obviously only on paper in the Republic of Slovenia. It is time that things began to change into a real responsibility of the holders of public powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, and prepare yourself for Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! To me, caring for the elderly and regulating their future life does not seem to be a place of time but of moral concern. It is also right to know where the money went or where the money did not go. I fully agree with Mr Pojbič's previous debate. An increasing number of people and residents are surviving their age in the absence and poverty of access to urgently needed services and assistance. A system of long-term care needs to be resolved as soon as possible, as soon as possible we will need such services for all of us or for ourselves or for our loved ones. Up until now, care for the elderly, parents are left mostly to the depths of their wallets or their children’s wallets. I'd like to say that a man pays for a 40-year pension. Over the years, it has raised about or over 200,000 euros. According to the amount of pension we receive today, it spends around €160,000 over 20 years, which means that there is a little more or up to €40,000 left in the state treasury. It is even sadder that some pensions do not wait at all. We all know what the situation is today when children go to work, but at home they have a sick parent who cannot take care of himself, is immobile or demented, and must be under constant supervision and so on. What can you do if waiting lines are so long and a few hours’ help at home is not enough? On the other hand, it means a great deal of financial burden. If the spouses receive a total of EUR 1,000 800, let's say that this is the average wage in Slovenia, not minimal, because most do not earn even EUR 800 per month, and given the regular monthly cost, rent, what kind of credit, for example, parents do not have a real estate – where do they get 500 euros per month or even more to provide a home? It is a shame that their children are being burdened from this point of view. There is always money for migrants, NGOs and similar unprofitable things, but for those who work and pay at the state treasury, it is not taken care of. According to the data, the last home was built in 2007. It's a pretty good time. It is said that nothing has been done for the elderly in our country in 12 years. We can say that they are a neglected and discriminatory part of society, but welcome when you're looking for their voices. Old people's homes are not built, but concessions are much more expensive. Given the current number of applicants, the state should work in the direction of building new homes for the elderly, where the elderly would get room for that, I repeat what they paid for at the state treasury in their 40s. I feel terrible when I see what's going on. Some of the elderly remain completely alone, without anything, left to themselves. Given that we may be alone for once, and because life is unpredictable, long - term care is one of the first things that needs to be resolved definitively in our country. No one wants to experience or see their parents in such or other crisis situations. And as we always stress in the Slovenian National Party, enough money is enough, only fair and transparent if you want to share it. We support all possible solutions for the good of the people. If I mention 74 million euros. You know what? We could have saved a lot of money for that. It says here that this money would be enough to build 10 homes for the elderly, but in these years nothing has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u97	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your thought. You have the floor, Mr Franz Jurša, and prepare yourself, Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I would immediately ask whether this debate is necessary in the National Assembly. I must say that this debate is still necessary, because we are actually talking today about the problems of the older generation or older population, which has somehow been pushed to the brink. Why is that, we have to answer ourselves. Especially because all governments, almost all governments, somehow have a macho attitude towards the older generation. You'll tell me, "You're in." Yeah, we're there and we have as much influence as we are. The Court of Auditors’ question is: how successful are we in ensuring the accessibility of social protection services and other people in need? We're not successful, we have to admit that. We're not responding well to demographic changes. We know that today we have 20% of the population over 65 years old, and in 20 years we will have 30% of these adults. We find that there is a shortage of homes in Slovenia. You have probably all mentioned this in your discussions. Somewhere on a list, some are written several times, 25,000 of them, and immediate accommodation would take about 10,000 people. In these homes of ours, I must admit, as far as I'm concerned, it's actual accommodation, provision too expensive. At a time when we did not build any homes for the elderly in the country, we built houses through concessionaires and awarded concessions. The concessionaires, logically, are more expensive for the accommodation because they also have an investment in the costs. But what is even more alarming is that a large number of elderly people have been leaving in recent years to survive beyond our borders. The main thing is, of course, because I am in the immediate vicinity of the border, I know, in the Republic of Croatia. We don't just go to sea there anymore, that's where our people are going, unfortunately, to die. Tell me, how can we provide accommodation if we have a pension of EUR 531 for 40 years and 60 years? How? We know how much it costs to stay home. We also know that if children do not have this money to provide it, then the local community provides the rest of the funds needed to pay for the accommodation. And there's an extra one. Nearly 300,000 pensioners have a pension below the poverty line. Someone could tell me again, "You were there, you didn't guarantee it." Yes, we were there, our word applied as much as we were, from the number of votes sent. What about the extra payments? That's what some people have been talking about. In addition to paying for accommodation, additional payments are also paid — for changing diapers, for bathing or showering several times, as is the norm, for cutting nails, for opening windows in the room, and so on. I think we're gonna have to do something here, and we're gonna have to decide once whether we have too high standards or whether we really have too little income, that after 40 years of work we can't afford normal accommodation when we've actually finished our period and we're retired. We are full of mouths to care for the older population, and we do not prove it with the facts in almost no way. Since 2007, we have not built any home, as I mentioned, more or less of them have been built with concessionaires, who have also received a concession for the care of the elderly. Together, from 2007 to 2018, we earmarked €40 million for investments. Tell me what you can build for $40 million. Nothing can be built. But some things have happened, that's true. But we were actually stepmotherly to our ancestors, because we somehow think that we will never grow old and that we will never need these things. Yeah, we're gonna need it, and we're gonna need it. Once upon a time, the elderly survived their old age, which is called the third lifetime, at home. At home they survived mainly in the countryside, mainly because the younger and older generations depended on each other. This isn't happening right now. The way we live our lives requires certain sacrifices. Children can no longer care for their parents, for the way they work today, the way they work, the way they work, is simply not impossible. It is true, however, that certain forms of help are organized at home. But they also stand at home and are in a different way organized by local communities. Since my time is running out, all I want to mention is that we also know voluntary engagement. Here I must especially commend the volunteers who are organised through the ZDUS and help the elderly for the elderly. Thank you to all these volunteers and also to the organisation that organised this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u99	Thank you, too, Mr Member, for your debate. You have the floor, Mr Vojko Starović, and prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, President. Even the debate I've been hearing for a few days seems to me that we don't separate two things. We don't understand, in my opinion, everyone, what long-term care means. What Europe offers, this money, the 74 million we have notified ourselves to – and I hope we will – is intended for alternative forms of care, not for homes, not for building homes. They are earmarked because, according to the European view and directions, these alternative forms are appropriate and need to be developed. Today we have already heard that we have the number of beds per thousand population, over 65 years, 54.5, which is more than the OECD average. So just focusing on home and institution solutions to the problem of the elderly and those who cannot take care of themselves is not an appropriate solution. Looking is different, maybe we are a little bit ignorant or behind, the directions are such and Europe is giving money for this, not for the construction of classic homes. With regard to these problems, as far as I am following them, as much as I can understand through this debate and the interpretation of the Government and after reviewing the report of the Court of Auditors, which is negative, I find that it has been a fundamental problem all the time whether it is the central state or whether it is the local one to be financed by public funds. We didn't get together about insurance, what it means to cover each other up. Is this a compulsory insurance, to increase or not, or is this a private insurance? Finally, here is the question of the role of sharing the costs and responsibilities of relatives and members of the household. I may be a little older and may still be living at a time when it was normal for family members to be provided unpaid was a social norm. Now it's changing. As my colleague Jurša said, the way of life is changing and we are in trouble. Sometimes this was the way to get rid of it. But no matter what, I also have some experience with this long-term care. Personal experience. Our mother had a room in her home. She lives outside my place, even outside her sister's place, and when she decided to stay home, we supported her because it was her decision. It was great from the start, but now he needs more help. So we pay for help, twice a week for a bath, twice a week for cleaning, we have one that takes care of the paperwork and we visit it, we come, because after all it's not that far from Ljubljana, and it's happening and living, I think, a very decent life. Me and my sister, what we have to do next, let's just do it, and personally, I think it's the right thing to do. I'm here in this regard, because we're well-sufficient, I don't see any problem. We also need to think in this direction. Remember, too, that we are personal — not everything here is a country to take care of, and we must take care of our own if we are able to do so. But if we're not, if someone's left alone, it actually falls to the country. But now again the question is central or local, or we will increase insurance. But when we speak, how will we finance this? This was the basic problem of the council which was in Ljubljana in 2014. There were 12 European countries under the auspices of the European Community, and European funds were also being considered at the time and so on to resolve this funding. Even at this level, all countries have in fact quite a problem of how to fill this need, or through higher taxes, through higher insurance or through other forms. But it has to come from somewhere. But I say, even on household members and family members, that's part of the obligation if they can, why can't they. Finally, I would say that I think this debate — some say premature, unnecessary — was useful. Although there has been some accusation, a collection of political points, and manipulation, I think it is right that we discuss this subject and continue to look for the right solutions. But I think we need to use this money that's meant to be used for pilot projects. Everything I've ever done was fine if anything was tested and seen. And if I have a chance, and if I get any more money from somewhere else, I'm going to trigger one way of long-term care at home, whether it's community housing or whatever it takes to see how much it takes in our environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now it is your turn, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, and prepare yourself, Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Besides, I don't have much time, I hope there's gonna be a division, that I can say more, but let me start with the Court of Auditors' findings. Those of you who are not literally appalled by these observations, I wonder what else is necessary for you in this country, so that you will, I don't know, raise your eyes a little bit more and say, but now things need to be changed, so it doesn't go any further. The Court of Auditors found that the area of social protection was not satisfactory. Second, it found that there were no identical and comparable treatments concerning beneficiaries. In other words, it has said that we have first- and second-class citizens. It's a shame! We shouldn't be dealing with anything like this in the country. All those who are still talking today about whether this debate is necessary for you today or after, I don't know, five years to talk about even bigger waiting lines, I don't understand you. Eleven thousand 446 people are waiting for nursing homes. And we would be if we didn't have concessionaires who, at least in part, help out in these rooms even worse. And of course, even those who say concessions don't, you're very wrong here, because if they weren't, it would be even worse. However, as far as the conclusions are concerned, I must tell you that those who do not support the decision to determine what is at the level of the funds earmarked for the projects and, of course, also with the responsibility of the persons, are attacking the transparency of the functioning of the country. Those who will vote against the decision literally attack on transparency, because here is one of the important points that shows whether this country acts transparently. But it is the taxpayer's resources – let's leave what's from European funds, you're not able to pump it anyway, and you won't. It's over. The most funny performance today was, of course, the performance by Igor Zorčič, the leader of the parliamentary group, who said that such things needed to be resolved intergenerationally. I ask you kindly, and then let us give the citizens a budget to accept, because they are taxpayers because they create it. What cooperation in this regard? Cooperation is that today we know that these people who work today will have homes for the elderly tomorrow when they need them. I'll pick it up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u103	Thank you, Madam Members, for your debate as well. You have the floor, Mrs Janja Slug, and prepare yourself, Mr Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'm in about the same situation as my forerunner. I've only got two minutes, so maybe I'll start right here in this Court of Auditors report, and then I'll tell you what I'm going to say when I share my time. I think we were all concerned when we read this audit of the Court of Auditors. Concerned, however, about the subsequent reading of this revision and the fact that we have gone a little deeper into the subject and the Court of Auditors' findings, we have found that it has already found exactly the same things in 2008 when it revised the Ministry of Labour's operations in 2007. I found this information even more shocking than the one I read from this audit. Why? Because then I went to look for that audit from 2008, and I found it and I read it. And what did I find out? The Court of Auditors, when it revised the Ministry's work for 2007, found exactly the same things. The exact same things and gave exactly the same instructions that it has given now for those 10 years that it has now revised. They're exactly the same. Members who were then sitting in the National Assembly, whose parties were in the Government, I hope that you had such an extraordinary session at the time and that you also pointed out what the Court of Auditors had found at that time. I'm gonna read a piece so we can know what we're talking about. Since then, the Court of Auditors has found that the social security programmes or services of the Ministry do not cover the needs, and that the existing network of services does not provide all beneficiaries with equal opportunities for integration; it does not have a clear answer to the question where, with those in need of protection and the care of others, there is no clear answer. The Court of Auditors had already made exactly the same recommendations to the Ministry as it had now made. What does that mean? This means that from 2008 onwards all governments and all ministers in this situation knew exactly where the problems were. But these problems started in 2007 so there won't be any mistake. Not last year, not in the pre-Last year, not two years ago, but in 2007. And since then, nothing has improved in this area. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u105	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. She's the proposer. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u106	Given the guidance of the predecessor, Comrade Servant, I'd like to ask her a question. In view of the misleading data or content of the debate, I would like to know where in the previous audit, i.e. the first revision of 2008, it is stated that the planned non-transparent purpose of spending 74 million and half euros of public tax money for studies and projects without content and objectives. So, dear colleague, don't be fooled. Today, we are talking about how the Court of Auditors' audit has warned or warned about the reckless use of funds, we are talking about the 74 million and a half euros that should be used to carry out some pilot projects, studies, analyses that you have not yet been able to tell your colleagues from the coalition or representatives from ministries, why these projects should be implemented and what the final impact of these projects should be. This was not the case in the Court of Auditors' first audit, so please do not deceive the coalition colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u107	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I don't know if you still have time. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much, President. I applied for procedural review, so I would like to ask you to warn a colleague, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And as has already been seen since my microphone went out, I no longer have time to discuss it because our Group of Members has run out of time. That's what my colleague knows, and now she's asking me questions that she knows in advance that I can't answer. So it would be very nice of you to remind her of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u109	Your Honor, if you would allow me to speak first, you would hear exactly what you have just said, so it was your procedure entirely unnecessary. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But you always have a right, because you're a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I did not ask a question, I said a fact arising from the Court of Auditors' first audit, and I said that a colleague had cheated in the context of her discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u111	Thank you for your position. The question was raised and I propose that the Government answer it later. I hope we don't have to prove this with any record of what was set up. Actually, here's what I'm going to say. Ladies and gentlemen, as the last member of the list, Mr Alexander Reberšek has the floor. Mr. Ambassador, yours is the last moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u112	President, thank you so much for saying this. In the vision of Slovenia, we can read on page 55: “We Slovenians are happy people in 2050.” It's been there for quite some time, some more than 30 years, two months, and a little less than 15 days. “In everyday life, we feel why we place ourselves on the global scales of prosperity at the top,” says the vision of the development of Slovenia. I am talking about a document on 88 pages that cost us half a million euros two years ago. The paper seems to be handling everything. When I thought that I had seen practically everything in this country, and as a result of a clear blow to the news of studies on the introduction of long-term care services in various areas for which EUR 74.5 million is earmarked. It is fair to say, in the Court of Auditors’ view, it is intended and not already spent. In Slovenia, however, studies on the need for a home for the elderly are obviously much more important than those whose homes are intended for the elderly. Such studies are often a legal form of theft. In fact, there is often no need for them, but calls are adapted and also specific for certain individuals, of course those concerned by politics. But it is an interesting question and a question on the spot, who are the ones who have made such unjustifiable profits and who are the ones who have cashed, not the money. For there is a vast difference between profit and profit, both substantive and moral. I have been listening all day to the chronic shortage of homes for the elderly in Slovenia. I come from Vransko Municipality, where we have the Vranska Home for the Senior Office of St. Rafael and this one has 62 beds. Just two days ago, they received a 300th request for a single bed this year. What is interesting here and at the same time very sad is that since 2007, the country has not built a single public home for the elderly, although more than 11,000 citizens have been waiting for admission to their homes for the elderly and other social institutions. Therefore, it has earmarked €74.5 million for studies to show whether long-term supply solutions are appropriate or not. But nowhere did I find anything on the information system to track the waiting types. This would really need to be digitised. The Court of Auditors’ audit also shows that the social protection system in the elderly does not work. The Court of Auditors' audit also points out that in order to establish effective social protection, we do not need some expensive studies that benefit only certain favoured individuals, but some concrete solutions that will benefit all users. I have spoken with some pensioners who are completely disappointed over the social state. They say it's embarrassing that it's a social state, yes, but not for the elderly. And that's some kind of fake solidarity. What, though, is the country whose citizens, who have built and co-created this country for years and years, are forced to find a home for the elderly also across the border, in Croatia? Is this the social state about which there is so much talk? Let us be aware that one day we will all be old if this is given to us. Already, one fifth of the population in Slovenia is over 65 years old, and in 20 years more than one third of these people will be living in Slovenia. And this will be some extra pressure on health care, on the pension system, and finally on the homes for the elderly. Already waiting on the bed for more than 11,000 applicants, and we're making $74.5 million for some studies. Who's crazy here now? With this money, we could build more than 10 homes for the elderly. The elderly deserve peaceable age, not begging for some basic rights. I am aware that Minister Klampferov is not to blame for the entire situation; after all, she is only a minister for one year. However, I call on the Ministry and also the Minister to take action as soon as possible, and this is to build a home, also to adopt appropriate standards for the supply of homes and for the employment of a sufficient number of fair and fair paid providers. What is also very interesting and at the same time very sad is that in the budget which the Government claims is social, development-oriented, in 2020 and 2021 there is no money to build homes for the elderly. It is said that in the next two years there is not a single cent to build a home, for additional capacity, additional beds, and this is very sad. Actually, it's a crime of our society. However, in the budget for the next two years, 10% of this money is allocated for some studies, namely long-term care, in 2020, 8 million and in 2021, 7 million and a half for long-term care. Now I'm asking you all together whether a study or our citizens who need a home for the elderly is worth more. I am sure that we do not need studies of some working groups, we do not need some research, analysis, what we need in our country are homes for older people, capacity building, more single beds and well-paid providers who care for all these applicants. 11,000 people knocking on this door, please take care of our weakest citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the Government will also be given the floor. I believe she'll explain why 8 million are meant for studies. Government, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much to Members and Members for their constructive debate, and also for the possible introduction of some of the issues that we must address together. I'm sorry, I still think it's my duty to repeat, although I don't like to repeat myself, that we will respond to the Court's findings, as their report dictates – in the 59 remaining days, I think, so that you can see our response to all the obviouss then. At the same time, I repeat that the meeting will not really end with a bitter taste that 74.5 million euro of cohesion funds have not been spent on studies and will not be used for studies. I would like to reply to the motioner, I think we have a misunderstanding, and I will repeat once again with regard to the state's decision. If I am not mistaken, there was a question ahead of time in this direction, and now I am responding to why she has decided on community services. I'll do it again. The decision was a strategic decision, at the level of the country, first with a resolution on the national social security programme for the years 2013 to 2020, also endorsed by the National Assembly, which states that we will go to deinstitutional social care in addition to the institutional one, and also in the operational programme adopted in December 2014 and, of course, on the basis of the European acquis, as we have already said several times. There is an opportunity to say at this point, because we like to compare ourselves with other European countries, that even in Western or northern Europe – it is true that there may also be cultural conditions and social conditions – some countries are even reducing the number of beds in nursing homes, of course at the expense of more developed deinstitutionalisation or community services, whatever we call them. By doing so, I do not want to reduce the importance or weight of the burden that we feel today with the pressure we have on our homes for the elderly. However, when we build more community services – today I think the most used one, and this is help at home – will probably also be pressure on homes at least in the care of I. Perhaps at this stage there are still some statistics, why the decision for community services as well. I'm going to give an example of dementia, which I think was mentioned at least three times today. Studies show that if we somehow stop dementia or stop its progression in two years, the cost of treatment and care will fall by 20%. If we can do this in five years, it's about 50%. So this is also one of the reasons why the state will decide to go into deinstitutionalisation processes. Why are we preparing the calls and the measures I mentioned earlier? So for solutions such as day-to-day protection, such as temporary accommodation, so that those who may need this help can get it and to expand the range of community services as well. Once again, for a 21 million-dollar measure, as I said, there are different forms of home on the ground, they are different, local communities have different attitudes to do so, so we do not want to decide at this stage how many people will be in one unit. 30 units have been recorded in the operational programme, and we need to achieve this. I therefore hope that you can understand that this will be the widest part of the call for proposals or any type of action, and that we will also give potential managers the opportunity to sign up for this call and, of course, the best to win and thus provide their potential users with the best long-term care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u115	Thank you. You want to speak for the government, too, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u116	President, thank you. In principle, I'll just repeat it myself. The Court of Auditors of the Ministry of Health has not ordered the preparation of a response report; the Court of Auditors has made recommendations to the Ministry of Health which have already been taken into account by the Ministry of Health in the preparation of proposals for systemic solutions in the area of long-term care. There has been a lot of talk about pilot projects, and perhaps the Court of Auditors believes that projects that are supposed to simply show whether long-term supply solutions are appropriate or not would be earmarked for a total of EUR 74,5 million. This is, according to the Court of Auditors’ assessment, a disproportionate cost compared to the necessary resources to ensure the lack of capacity. Slovenia is committed to drawing on the cohesion funds through which project activities are carried out. These, on the one hand, enable research into potential problems and possible manoeuvring in planned solutions and mechanisms, and help to calibrate tools, develop and regulate cooperation protocols between different stakeholders, create new services, find optimal solutions and, lastly, collect data that are not collected at national level, while also providing services that are free of charge during the duration of projects for beneficiaries, while providing local environment with new skills for professionals and also for non-formal care providers as well as providing new jobs. As stated by the Ministry of Health by decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 14. 12. 2016 assumes the task of preparing a new system of long-term care. That Decision was also the basis for the transfer of certain projects co-financed by European Cohesion Policy funds from the operational programme 2014-2020 from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health, with the said decision, has taken over projects totalling EUR 20 million, 676 thousand 900. At the end of 2017, there was a change in the operational programme and the Ministry of Health, in line with the recommendations of the Council of the European Union, that Slovenia should strengthen the Community forms of services and allow the transition from institutional forms to community forms, received an additional EUR 3 million. The Joint Ministry of Health has €23 million, €676,000,900 for project activities. The project funds are mainly intended to provide direct services to users to whom citizens cannot access them under the existing regime. In particular, services in the field of unmet needs, often reflected in the increased pressure on admission to an institution. Services shall be free of charge during the duration of projects for beneficiaries. I stress only the fact that the Ministry of Health was not able to start project activities in the area of long-term care until after the transfer of competences, i.e. in 2017. First, the project was launched in 2017, a model of long-term care in the community for which EUR 4 million 403 000 has been provided and the aim is to develop standardised training for providers of formal and informal care, to carry out training of different stakeholders, to external evaluation of project activities, to coordinate activities between pilot environments and to establish information support for system support for long-term care processes. The project will be implemented by the end of 2022. The implementation of pilot projects supporting the transition to the implementation of the long-term supply law has been ongoing since 2018. The invitation to tender was published in April 2018 and the provision of services will continue until the end of June 2020. The total value of the project is 6 million 100,000. It is performed in three environments: Dravograd, Kršek and Celje. The project also testes some of the solutions that are the subject of proposals for systemic solutions, stressing in particular that new services are also provided under this project, which citizens cannot access under existing home arrangements. If we list only some: the supply of medicines, the storage of probes, psychosocial support services to users and owners, the services for strengthening and maintaining independence and e-services. In the framework of the project, i.e. evaluation, the entry points were submitted from January to September 2019, previously 148 applications were misproposed from me, the correct data is a thousand 474 applications for the assessment of eligibility for long-term care. A thousand 312 persons were assessed as eligible for new services under the projects, on 1. 9. 2019 received 287 people free of charge for new services. The following project, adaptation and transformation of existing institutional protection networks and the entry of new operators for the provision of Community services and programmes for older persons, the launch of field activities in 2020. The call for a project for which €13 million is earmarked for €173,000 900 was launched in June 2019 and the funds have not yet begun to draw. The aim of this project is also to provide a range of unmet needs in communities that beneficiaries will be able to receive free of charge under this project. In this project, we also place particular emphasis on persons with dementia and support for their family members, reducing bureaucratic burdens in work processes, strengthening the entry of different profiles in the provision of services and thus strengthening the ability of citizens to stay as long as possible in the domestic environment and to improve or maintain the psychophysical capacity as long as possible and thus to increase the capacity of self-care. Each project in the call for proposals clearly defines monitoring indicators and its implementation is subject not only to the control of project operators themselves, the control of the Ministry, not least the control of the public, but also to the control of the Government Development and Cohesion Policy Service, the European Commission's Budget Supervisory Office, given the key elements. We stress that the Ministry of Health has not allocated the project resources for long-term care studies during the revised period. We also stress that the deadlines for carrying out project activities or drawing on funds are not delayed. Thank you very much. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u117	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mag. Carmen Furman, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u118	At the end of my debate today, I will continue to say that I personally believe that today's debate was entirely in place. It was entirely on-the-spot, because after several hours of the meeting we were reconfirmed that the Court of Auditors' finding that the projected spending of these 74 million and a half euros is not intended and transparent. Unfortunately, so far, nothing has been said about the content, nothing about the concrete objectives to be achieved through these projects, neither by the coalition nor by the representatives of the ministries. With this audit, the Court of Auditors has set up a mirror for you, and I believe that today it has not been easy for you to defend these anomalies, in the end, but at the end of this session I will also set it up for you myself. In fact, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed to raise the minimum disability pension, which is supposed to cost the state budget EUR 12 million. Of course, this was rejected by the coalition. Then we proposed the return of rights to war veterans, which would end up costing the state budget 10 million euros a year, and this was rejected by the coalition. We have proposed eliminating discrimination against farmers' insurers, which the Ombudsman also points out in his reports. This would amount to EUR 20 million per year in the budget, and this has also been rejected by the coalition. Otherwise, the amendment of the law is now put into debate again, and we will see how the coalition Members will vote this time. You caused a raise in the supply chain because the country did not provide these funds from its budget when it was raising salaries in the public sector. In the context of the adoption of the rebalancing for 2019, we have proposed an amendment to the Government to fix this and to cover this cost from public finances. Here too, you have rejected the matter, coalition, and of course you are the cost of raising wages for employees – which was justified in not being misunderstood here – to pass on to users or residents in the homes of the elderly. Today, you are advocating studies, projects worth 74 million and a half euros, which are not going to contribute anything. Not only do you not know what their content is, what the objectives of these projects are, what studies are. At the beginning of the debate, I said that we want clear answers from the Government, the competent ministries, to the questions about what measures, if any, you have taken in the last ten years to improve the situation of Slovenian elderly people. Of course, I didn't get an answer, and I'm going to show it to you from the Court of Auditors. Nothing. No measures taken by the State for institutional care, no measures taken by the State for community care, even though I have been listening to the Ministry of Labour's representative all day, how you are promoting community care – I don't know how, but you haven't done anything. But here's what I'm going to say about our recommendations. Under point one. All those coalition Members who have discussed today that you are advocating transparent spending of public money should definitely support point 1 of the Recommendation. In fact, it only says here to examine the appropriateness of the amount of funds allocated to projects. Therefore, to examine what the envisaged solutions for long-term care are, or if this does not prove to be, to initiate the necessary procedures against responsible persons to establish compensation and criminal liability. Under point two. If you have so far failed to take into account the recommendations or findings of the Court of Auditors in the first audit, which has already concluded that the availability of social protection services is not offered to all beneficiaries who would need it, however, take one step forward today, support this second point, and that a step can be taken in the right direction, so that appropriate measures can be taken to ensure the accessibility and availability of social protection services to all beneficiaries within 30 days of the adoption of this Recommendation. In fact, certain solutions have already been prepared and only the Ministry has to make them public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u119	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Dear Members, I have a question. Since there's some unscheduled time left, I'm wondering if we're going into a ring of applications. Let's go. And before that, I have something else to read. Thank you, Mrs Jerneji Bergoč – your presence is urgently needed. Let me read it. I find that there is still interest in the debate. It is important if the representative of the proposal's proposal also wishes to discuss the recommendations of the mags. Carmen Furman and one of the government representatives, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. So, I did this job. We're starting the application process. Twenty-two panellists have been reported. An individual debater shall have at his disposal two minutes, if I am properly informed. He's the first to discuss mag. Marko Koprivc, get ready for Mrs. Carla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Given the really late hour and also the time available to me, I'm going to be very short. I think that everyone in this Chamber today agrees that the debate we are discussing this afternoon and evening is very important. Indeed, the area of long-term care and care for the elderly in Slovenia is indeed not well regulated. For many years, 15 years or more, a so-called long-term care law is being prepared, which is urgently needed to be adopted as soon as possible. I believe that this government, as it has committed itself to the legislative programme of April this year, will finally adopt this law and thus in some way open the way for an integrated regulation of the area. We must all be well aware that the adoption of the law is not enough, but additional financial resources must also be provided. Let us pour ourselves some pure wine and acknowledge that we need an additional financial resource for these funds, and I am sure that we can only do so by introducing some additional social insurance that would be provided through a public insurance undertaking and that these funds would be earmarked for long-term care. However, I do not like the flat-rate estimates that nothing has been done — that is, much effort has been made. Our former Minister, Anja Kopač Dark, has also worked hard to ensure that the conditions for the adoption of this law have been prepared, guidelines have been adopted, but unfortunately there has been a change of government and the law has not yet seen the light of the world. As I say, I'm sure this will happen in a short time. But there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Rumor has it that for various analyses, even €74 million has been spent, they are false. This is a pure lie, and this has been said many times today. So please don't fool the public. This was denied yesterday by the Court of Auditors, so that money was not planned and even less spent. I would also ask that a representative [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u121	You've wasted your time, Mr. Marko Koprivc. Since you predicted that clean wine should be poured, the Ministry of Health is likely to react or not. Mrs. Carla Urh checked out. You have the word, Mr. Primož Siter. Prepare the mags. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I apologize for the confusion. At the end of the day, I could only respond to the execution of colleague Igor Zorčič, who says that in Levica we say that our solutions solve all such problems. If that were true, I'd be like this. [[shows with gesture]] solve this problem. Great, we'd all confirm and game over. But it's not true. However, with our proposals, which you have Members and Members of Parliament on the table today, we have addressed the most acute problems that can be solved now, at this time. Not with some strategic planning for the future, not with a long-term care law, but with an existing rule on pricing, which says that we can time and in height limit the contributions of residents and tenants to these investment funds of companies that manage homes and make sure that the supply prices are and that the supply they pay for is basically humane, because it makes no sense for suppliers and suppliers to pay for basic care, then they have to pay for it once more if they need to sharpen their nails. This is the exploitation of the weakest for the profits of one company that manages these homes, and this is unacceptable. With these proposals, we come and remind you of coalition Members and Members, or, as we have heard, we are setting a mirror for you. We ask about your support for how ready this coalition is for action, how ready this coalition is to solve the problem now, at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now he'll be in action, mag. Andrej Reich, prepare for Mr. Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. For me, the problem of long-term care is a very important issue, but I would just like to repeat again what the Government has given us. 1.8 million is intended to co-finance information and communication technologies that will allow 2,000 pensioners to stay in the local environment alone. 21 million is intended for the construction or acquisition of units for the provision of daily forms of protection for the most vulnerable throughout Slovenia. Implementation of deinstitutionalisation at home in Crassus, co-financing of the modernisation of the institution, 2.5m euros. And who's here talking about unnecessary studies? These are measures for our most vulnerable, after all the ends of Slovenia. And when we talk about 10,000 pensioners waiting for home, we need to talk without demagogies. We need at least 100 homes in Slovenia, we need more than a billion euros and we need to make a serious decision on how to finance this. For regular financing of long-term care, we will soon need more than €500 million. We will need a social consensus on how to finance this in a way that does not lead to a conflict between the active population and the people who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Mr. Franz Kramar, prepare Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u126	President, thank you for your word. Besides, time limits me, but I'd like to say the following. Interestingly, after so many years of independence, Slovenia is talking about not being well cared for by pensioners. I don't think this year-to-year postponement is acceptable. We must be aware that pensioners are still subject to Zujf, that our client has proposed and we have entered into a coalition contract to raise the pension rate to enable those who will be retired to work further. Things are moving, but I think it's a little too slow. We're always talking about the means that they're not there to be found. If I'm a little rude, I'll say 50 million will be about arming Slovenia in this new budget. If this money were to be spent on pensions, we would at least partially relieve our pensioners from the situation they are in, but they are in poor condition. You must be aware that today's supply in a home costs 1,000 euros and more, that a large number of pensioners are on the verge of surviving from 500, 600 euros of pension and that this responsibility is passed on to future generations. If they don't have relatives, the problem is even bigger. I think it's right to talk about these things, but it would be time for something concrete to happen. We can be demagogues, we explain and I don't know what else, but people expect us Members to start doing things in practice so that it feels that this layer of population is not pushed to the brink. On the contrary, we must have a special commitment to them because those who have created conditions for us today are the ones in which we live. I think so. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u127	Mr. Ambassador, you've lost contact with the world. Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please prepare Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much. About the predecessor. They live for 300 euros, and when we said we would raise disability pensions, you were against it. Now for the government. Look, one great shame today is what your performance showed. You had 40 minutes, you weren't able to use it to answer questions. You, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Health, have read what you had written this morning. So you weren't even able to follow the debate. You, Your Honor, have said that you need time to respond to what the Court of Auditors has found — if nothing is true, you could demarcate everything today. As far as dementia is concerned — and I don't have time — you're speaking the wrong way. Dementia is on the rise and more people with dementia will need more money, and even if we stop it, these people need institutional care. So it's not as simple as you said. As far as money is concerned. We've got five million. Now I'm going to tell you just one case. Slovenia has been able to afford a helicopter for €14.6 million. Germany has 45 helicopters worth 1.6 million euros and are completely satisfactory and good. Do you know what that means? That you don't know how to set priorities again. You spend money on making good money, and on the other hand, people who need money bloodyly, who need rooms bloodyly, bed sheets in their own homes, don't get it because they don't have money. They don't get their own things they've been paying for. And this is your government, these are your priorities – 16 million for the helicopter and nothing for the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u129	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik, prepare for Mr. Marko Bandelli. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Demographics in Slovenia are a problem, even in the European Union is a problem, and the undeniable fact is that in Slovenia we are also an ageing society in the European Union. One more fact. We have several problems in Slovenia. Clearly, in recent years there has not been enough money, power, knowledge, political will, whatever I call it, to build something at home for older citizens. And another paradox, actually. Apartments for young families have not been built either. But I don't feel completely responsible for it, as my colleagues in SDS want to instill responsibility today. You know why not? Because I wasn't here, and the LMŠ didn't run any of these projects. By the way, I've built quite a few student homes in Maribor, something. And she's doing some re-enactment. So I have to say that I do my part of the job properly. However, it is correct to say that quite a few of these public homes have been energy-renewed, including the House of Danice Vogrinec Maribor, which is not the only one, of course. By the way, he was also chosen as the best home for the elderly in Europe this year. So, just by the way. It is a home where older ones feel good, it is also a home where they arrange various things and, in fact, provide very exemplary care for those who live there. But we have another home in Maribor, called Dom under the bitterness and is owned by the city municipality and also financed by the city municipality from its budget. I could say something about that, and I won't. Nevertheless, we need a long - term supply law as soon as possible, of course we all agree on that. In doing so, we must not forget the employees who work there, especially those who continue to do so, even though they have the opportunity to do so in neighbouring Austria, which you know is not too far from Maribor. We have another problem — palliative care. There will also be something to say about this. By the way, we don't have a palliative hospital in Maribor. By the way, you didn't build those, even when you were on the government in the SDS, so please. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u131	Member of the Commission [[…]] You have the floor, Mr Marko Bandelli, to prepare yourself, Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u132	President, thank you. I think that in these eight hours, seven and a half, we listened as much as possible — who did it, who did it, who didn't do it, there were a lot of accusations here. I'm sure we're one of the smallest culprits here. Very interesting, and I can't get past it, was the explanation of Breznik, what the social state is. I mean, I laughed incredibly for Pulitzer's prize, if you could say that, or for Nobel. His explanation is very interesting. On the other hand, the proposal of the Left was extreme, as always, that if I understood correctly at the time I went out, we should stop all infrastructure projects and invest in homes for the elderly. Something like that. I think this is also a very concrete proposal. But I'm interested in something else here. What about concessions? Why didn't we say anything about concessions? Why aren't we giving concessions? Are the concessions stopped? Why don't we go to this option? That would solve the big problems. In addition to concessions, public-private partnerships. Why are we afraid of public-private partnerships? What are we afraid of? Because that would be one big solution. Of course, it does not become the same as it was, Šempeter - Vrtojba, in the township, where 120 rooms and 38 apartments were then blocked. I can't get past not saying mea is a culpa from Desus. Excuse me, you've been here 19 years in government. Karl hasn't been to the department, not once, and he's put all the ministries through, and you might as well be able to solve these problems a little bit. And let's put one more thing in here. In the next perspective, let us demand that the funds be earmarked for long-term care. That can be achieved. To reach that point. That's one suggestion. And secondly, there could also be reliefs for certain large companies – when we talked so much about income yesterday, these companies could also invest in long-term care [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u133	Mr Member, thank you for your debate as well. [[advertising from the hall]] It's not a replica. You have the word, Mr. Vojko Starović. Prepare the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have a feeling that we've been talking pretty much through each other and that we didn't get along. I have also fully understood from the written materials and the Government's explanation that these 74 million are intended to laud the project for alternative alternatives to long-term care. I had the opportunity, or privilege, to be in BMW Headquarters, in those trippers, in those towers, in all the departments and also in the underground, where they even have a production line where they test the production before they run some model into those production lines that are for the market. And if someone gives us money, they give us money for these experiments, for these projects, so we can trust them to see it, we just pick it up. I would say that today's recommendation should read just like this: do your best to get these European funds for these projects that will help us introduce alternative forms with which we have no experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Branko Grims, get ready, Mr Branko Simonovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Long-term care at the end of a life course is a goal that, finally, does not have death, as some of you have said, is a matter of dying, but of quality of life. And people have every right to do that. Today, we have listened to numbers that are frightening — that 10,000 people are waiting for a place to receive adequate care for all that they have given for Slovenia in their lives. There's no money for that. More than the last 10 years, no new home has been built from the state's resources, and that says it all. Today it's actually possible to put it all into the same sentence, which, believe me, you're not going to like. But to spend €74.5 million on problematic studies and some projects that are not transparent, according to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, in a country in which no new home for the elderly has been built in a decade, shows the obvious purpose of money laundering. This is all the story we are facing today, and I just hope that the police are monitoring this debate and that they will take the time and resources to see what they really want to achieve with this kind of work. I think that this is not the only case under this government and in this budget and that there should be somewhere else to look at why all possible and impossible studies are carried out, who is the one who really gets the money, who has the benefit of it. One thing we all know, citizens and citizens, the elderly certainly do not benefit from it. And that's what's really wrong. We live in a country that favours foreigners over its own citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Branko Simonovich, your word, prepare yourself, Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u138	President, thank you so much for your word. The Court of Auditors held that the State’s concern for providing assistance to all who, due to age, mental and physical injury, needed assistance was not satisfactory during the revised period. It is unacceptable and I cannot accept the fact that the long-term care project has been under way for 16 years, that we have not built one home for pensioners from public funds since 2007, and that I do not continue to mention it. I propose to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the Ministry of Health that both staff and financial opportunities be eliminated and that, pending the preparation and adoption of appropriate systemic and institutional forms of assistance for the elderly, projects which provide adequate assistance to the elderly are fully co-financed. One such project is certainly a project for older people organised within the framework of the Association of Retired Slovenian Associations, involving more than 3 000 500 volunteers and volunteers. There are probably more such projects in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Boris Doblekar, to prepare Mr Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. I only have two minutes. Long-term care. Heavy problem, water running down our throats, we all know that, we feel that. It is important to realize that we have had a problem from time to time; soon after World War II we have completely ignored this area. We have stocked castles in which we like to walk, instead of making real modern homes, as abroad, the case is Austria, Italy, and everything would be different with us. 74 million euros planned for some studies and research has been allocated to us by Europe, a good Europe, given that 5 billion euros have disappeared in a bank hole, millions of Gods still go where we give for everyone alive, only for what we should not. Pensions are low, wages are low. In Lithia, we worked as a home for the elderly ourselves. The local community financed it, the country did not jump to help, and it was worth 12 million euros. We asked for all the miles of altitudes, and the country did not want to hear, so we had to take care of a home for older citizens and a protective work centre ourselves. We have waiting types in nursing homes, in health care homes, in hospitals, in front of social work centres, in front of state borders, sometimes in that singing system, and we have them in pumps and shops. So I think it's time for us to sober up and start thinking normally and that all those of you who are full of the mouth of why it's not yet, you start working to be. We know that the problem was the previous system, now we have another system, the money is, let's work with it rationally and let's focus on the older population. We're getting old too. Sooner or later, it'll be our turn to go to such homes. And if we don't really do something serious right now and support today this proposal that we've been discussing all day, then we've done absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the floor, Mr Predrag Baković, to prepare Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Today we have heard, respected colleagues, everything — how we have spent 74 million, how we have not wasted them, how some studies have been done and some fog sales have been done and so on and so forth and so on and so forth. The fact is that the Court of Auditors has written a report, and the fact is that there has also been some tweet. This tweet was in the style in which the opposition debate was going on today, and I will quote: "Specialists for spending public money at work. At the time the SD was led by the Ministry of Labour, only for studies on the long-term supply of up to EUR 74.5 million of public funds. For this money, we'd build about 10 homes for the elderly. A real money launderer." What's the truth here? Nothing. If we say that the time of revision was from 2007 to 2018, it means that at that time the reserve was not only under the SD, but also under the SDS, even under the NSI, and under anyone else. Second fact. This tweet says that 74 million have been used — many times today we have found that they have not been used. And a third fact. Demagogy to build about ten homes for this money — here we have heard that it is not possible to build a home from this money because it is soft content. And because of this, Your Honor, your demands for the convening of an extraordinary meeting I can't really understand as a sincere attempt to resolve the situation. And if we're already talking about projects that you say are non-transparent, then I understand you're against a project to get smaller accommodation units to support people with mental health problems at 9 million? That you're against getting smaller accommodation units to support people with mental disabilities at 11 million? That you are against the construction or acquisition of units for the provision of daily forms of protection amounting to 21 million? Now if I understand it correctly, then I'm worried. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Mr. Franz Jurša, prepare Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u144	Thank you, President. Since I am no longer a Russian youth, I am also well behaved, but this time I cannot get past a matter that has been said recently by Mark Bandell. Marco, I have to remind you. Your president was the party's president, at the time your minister was Mr. Chufer. This same Mr. Chufer wanted to reduce pensions by 10% in 2013. If it weren't for us, Desusa, that would have happened. Interpret it your own way now. In view of the fact that I failed to say one thing before, I would like to add this. We have been discussing the institutional housing or care of the elderly for a considerable period of time. Here I would like to point out that we do not have the same price in public homes, let alone have the same prices where concessions are granted. I think there will be some concrete effort to be made in this area. However, I will say that I do not object to the granting of concessions, but good care and, of course, such quality care as we have in public homes for the same money must also be provided. That's a key question. However, I am concerned about the ownership structure of some homes in Slovenia, where the owners are foreigners. And around long-term care – here I fully agree with the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, who said that this is alternative care. It is true that we have been preparing endlessly for transfers from one ministry to another ministry and that it has been constantly searching and pleading for money. Once something has to happen in the future [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u145	What happened was that the power went out. You have the word Mrs. Janja Slug, and as the last mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u146	Thank you very much. My friend Baković said that the purpose of today's session is not sincere. Of course, it is not an honest intention, as this is also evident from all the discussions of the proposer. Of course, it's not a sincere purpose. But today's session is what any opposition would have done in such an accounting report, let's face it. That's definitely what I'd do. But that red thread of all the questions that we hear all the time yesterday and today, and that the proponent keeps saying that she didn't get the answer, is why you didn't, we didn't, because you also built the house. When we talk about long-term care itself, about the latest approaches and methods, we find that institutionalisation is not yet the only answer. And when we talk about who already and when it was realized that institutionalisation is not the only answer, we have also come to the information that I said yesterday – yet today it is still argued that there is no answer – the resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2013 to 2020, which is still in force, decided at the time of your government that homes will not be built. Now, of course, we can make a different decision. Yes, you can. Next year, we will adopt this resolution here in the National Assembly, as it was in 2013, and then we can make a different decision and we can say okay, and now we will build. Yes, you can. But then it'll work again, and then we won't be able to think about it again and say it again, and now we wouldn't, and in two years, we wouldn't be able to do something else. But let us also say something that was also answered – 2017 was a tender for the award of concessions and was awarded over 900 concessions. And also yesterday, the minister told us nicely where those extra places are through the soft content that will also relax the beds in the homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u147	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. As the last one, you have the word "magic." Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u148	For a little while. I, my fellow Servant, would not exactly advertise and boast about the award of concessions, because you grant concessions and all users of these services pay for almost 30% more expensive services because you do not perform them in the framework of public institutional protection. So I wouldn't really brag about it. I would like to repeat once again what I have been saying all afternoon, namely, the content of my debate today is the content of the Court's audit, whether you want to admit it to your coalition colleagues or not. It has also been heard quite a lot today that we are here deceiving to speak some misleading information, most of the time from Members of the Party of Social Democrats. Of course, I understand that, given that your minister was responsible for this department in the previous government, and that she was a secretary-general in this area for many years, but what are you afraid of if we are deceiving? If we are deceiving, I understand that you will then support the recommendation under point one and prove that the money was transparent or that it will be spent deliberately and transparently. Then I do not see any obstacle here or, of course, you will be happy to accept the recommendation and then determine or examine the appropriateness of the amount of funds allocated. However, if the funds have not been used transparently, compensation and criminal liability will also be identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u149	Thank you, Madam Members, for your debate as well. Messengers and Members, I ask you to listen to one another and not to be mistaken. If you allow me, I note that no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal, and therefore I am terminating this agenda item and the 27th meeting of the assembly, which we continue at half ten, 21.30. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 9.15 p.m. and resumed at 21.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly and move on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Continue with the end of agenda item 1 [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I really don't want to bother you. I can wait. We're really not in a hurry. I can really wait. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Does he want to take a break? No, no, no. Thank you. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the Court of Auditors’ opinion that the Government or the competent ministries have not been successful in ensuring the accessibility and availability of social protection services and that they have earmarked disproportionate amounts of funds for projects that are intended to demonstrate whether the envisaged solutions in relation to long-term care are adequate or not. As the amendments to the updated proposal for a recommendation have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation. I ask if anyone has a position on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much for the word on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of residents and residents in homes for older citizens. On behalf of tenants who pay too much for basic services, they pay too much on the one hand because they are being misinterpreted by the rules already laid down on how the prices of services should be determined and on the other hand because they are being hit by the investment costs of companies operating these licensed homes. It's a practice on the ground, and it's unacceptable, and it's rude if I don't say it's inhuman. We will, of course, support the proposed measures in Levica. It should also be pointed out that, in fact, it is now in the hands of the coalition, whether or not we are going to solve this problem today. Today, we are not talking about measures that only a long-term supply law or a new group or a new analysis will solve, today we are talking about measures that can be implemented under the current legislation. And today, as it is said in the hands of the coalition Members and Members, whether we will solve this problem or move it into an indefinite future, waiting for a new law, waiting for new changes, in a time that may or may not bring a better wind. Today we need to save the residents and the residents of the home for the elderly. There is no reason not to gather this political power and solve things, but we can talk strategically about the long-term care law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-17-SDZ8-Izredna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much for explaining the vote. Dear Members, we begin our vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the recommendation is not accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and I wish you, honourable Members, all the best.
