ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Iva Dimic, Blaž Pavlin, Mag. Dejan Kaloh, Joseph Lenart, Jean Mahnič, Nada Brinovšek, Jože Tanko and Janez Janša. Representatives of the Government and representatives of the Council of State were invited to attend the meeting for both agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 16 July 2019 with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. At its 5th extraordinary meeting, on 15 July 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before its announcement, decide again on the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In order to explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Bogomir the grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u2	Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 5th extraordinary session, the Council of State adopted a veto on amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, as it notes that there is a different understanding of the content of the decision of the Constitutional Court [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u3	Could I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u4	as there is a different understanding of the content of the Constitutional Court decision in the work which defines the right of children to free primary education. [[…]] With the new law adopted, it is moving away from the Constitutional Court's judgment and consequently weakens the situation and threatens the existence of private schools in the Slovenian space, where we educate less than 1% of all primary school children according to our known information, and on average 14% of students in private schools in the European Union. It is precisely because of this that we believe that Slovenian private education does not in any way endanger Slovenian public education. On the contrary, from many examples of good domestic practices, its positive complement and healthy and stimulating competitiveness can be largely positive. Private education can complement and improve the education system and the rich society as a whole. The Constitutional Court adopted its judgment on the initiative of parents of children who are trained in private schools and schools. If the Constitutional Court held that the law did not violate their rights, then that would be the case for parents in their own judgment. If the Constitutional Court considered that these children were positively discriminated against, then the Constitutional Court would also write that down in its judgment. In its judgment, the Constitutional Court drew attention to the problem of unconstitutionality, since, despite the implementation of the same public school programmes, children in private and public schools are not equal. The introduction of a distinction between public programmes and programmes which have gained public validity is groundless and is also not in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court which has decided that there are no real reasons for the different financing of public programmes in public and private primary schools. The introduction of a distinction in practice constitutes the basis for the distinction or limitation of the co-financing of the primary private school programme, which is directly contrary to that decision. The Constitutional Court stated in its decision: “Article 57 of the Constitution does not merely give rise to the obligation of the State to create a legal framework for the establishment and functioning of private schools and to recognise the public validity of the education obtained in private schools, but also to ensure their actual existence, i.e. co-financing.” By decision, the Constitutional Court further established that Article 57(2) of the Constitution provides pupils with the right to attend the compulsory public education programme at public or private schools free of charge. The constitutional goodness of public funding goes to the user, to the recipient of education, to the learners and their parents, not to performers who are private or public entities. Education is therefore financed, not by the education provider. Thus, it follows from the constitutional duty of pupils to attend a public education programme that all such programmes must be equally financed. The implementation of the new funding proposal will inevitably lead to an increase in tuition fees, thereby limiting their accessibility to socially more burdened families and in the long run to the creation of private schools for the rich elite, which is certainly not in the public interest. In our view, Slovenia should financially support and promote educational programmes, whether implemented by the public or private sector. At the same time, we should also deepen our efforts to achieve a higher level of knowledge and competence of our children. The implementation of the Constitutional Court decision without such ambition will not bring systematic and strategically important solutions, but teachers, principals, students, parents and employers want them. All the key strategic documents, including the White Paper and the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, point to the gap in the school system, are also increasingly critical of the need for its reform in the direction of increasing the competence and knowledge of our children. Many private practices have approaches and solutions to overcome this obstacle. That is why there is no reason to restrict or even abolish them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent of the labour force. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Branislav Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth yesterday at its 11th emergency meeting addressed the State Council's request that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted it at its 10th regular meeting on 10 July 2019. The representative of the Council of State explained in more detail the requirements and reasons for the request for re-decision on the law. Following him, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport presented the Government's opinion and said, inter alia, that the Government rejects the findings of the State Council, since the distinction between public education programmes and programmes that have gained public validity is intended to make a clear distinction between educational programmes which are already different from the law in force, except in terms of terminology. It explained that the content of the distinction in the way programmes are adopted is that the public programmes are adopted by the Minister in cooperation with the competent professional council, and that the programmes that become public valid are adopted by the private school in accordance with its creation act, and the professional council finds that the programme is in line with the objectives of the education and education system and that it provides an equivalent educational standard. It considered that this distinction would not endanger existing private schools and primary, secondary or higher vocational schools implementing a public programme by not applying that distinction to programmes that had already become public. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service which examined the request in accordance with the provisions of Article 147 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and its representative said that all their comments were contained in a written opinion. In the debate, some discussers considered that they agreed with the proposed request of the Council of State for re-decision on the law, because they considered the law to be unconstitutional, which is also based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. They felt that the latter were further reducing the rights of private schools and that, irrespective of Thursday's vote, the law would be again before the Constitutional Judges. Others, however, said they supported the aims and purpose of the law. They considered that the Slovenian school system was based on the concept of public schools and that the compulsory part of the school should be financed in full. They explained that we have a wide and high-quality public education in Slovenia, which is open to all children, that the institution of primary education must remain a network of public schools and that private schools are welcome when it is complementary to the public and that it is also possible to enroll in less privileged pupils. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the opinion whether the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education was appropriate and had not been adopted, since it had not been voted on by the majority of all members and members of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker. Mrs Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u8	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Councillor of the State. The first sentence of the Constitutional Court decision, which is the whole time of the speech and the implementation of which we are talking about in this amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, states this sentence: "The first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI is in the work relating to the public education programmes of primary education which are not in accordance with the Constitution. The National Assembly shall abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia.” This publication was published in 2014. And what does the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 2, say — that is, the one who is inconsistent with the Constitution? He says: “Private schools implementing the programmes referred to in the first paragraph of this Article” – these are those that have gained public validity – “are provided for the implementation of the programme with 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme.” So for five years now, we have been trying to eliminate this unconformity with the Constitution, and today, to be honest, we are the closest. Today we are closest to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision and the abolition of unconstitutionality. Thus, there is always talk about the appropriate formula for financing private primary schools, as public primary schools and private primary schools are not the same. They're not the same. The law provides that the founder of a private school is the one who prepares and adopts his programme. This programme must follow educational and educational objectives; it must necessarily include the following subjects: Slovenian and Italian or Hungarian in national mixed areas, mathematics, first foreign language, history, native and national culture and ethics, sport, at least 1 natural subject, 1 social subject and at least 1 artistic subject. And there is a third condition, and this condition is that students reach an equivalent educational standard. For those private elementary schools that operate according to special pedagogical principles, these gabarits are even more or less specific. These are therefore the gabarits to be achieved by the programmes of private primary schools. Those conditions shall then be checked by the General Education Board and shall determine whether the programme complies fully with these conditions, as submitted. This programme, which is submitted, shall contain all additional activities, specialities, subjects, content that meet the special philosophical, valuable, religious or any other mission of the private school. The programme submitted shall be the whole, evaluated as such, whether or not it meets the objectives and, as such, once it is found that it meets the objectives and is included in the school, it must be fully implemented — with all the particulars, supplements, everything they have submitted. A private school, with the exception of those compulsory subjects, may determine its programme completely independently, only within those frameworks. It maintains, however, that the currently existing private schools whose programme has gained public validity also have in the programmes those content which are part of the wider public school but are not bound by the law. However, the public primary school programme is more precisely defined by the rules. This programme is uniform for all public primary schools, and this is a publicly applicable programme. When the student or the pupil completes primary school education in a private school which has this programme which has gained public validity or in a public school, he shall eventually obtain a public certificate. In the case of the amendment of the law before you, the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision is ensured that public funds are fully secured for all that is compulsory for a child, i.e. what is considered compulsory under Article 57 of the Constitution as a compulsory primary school education financed by public funds. However, a somewhat broader context must now be mentioned very briefly. This context says that we people in this country have decided to provide public services to the highest extent possible for the quality of life of people. Why? Since it is important that all of us have equal accessibility and equal quality of services, in particular this is important for the field of education, because every child must be admitted to a primary school without a special procedure being carried out to determine whether the family is appropriate or willing to cooperate fully because not all children have this possibility and this happiness to have such a family environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u9	Madam Secretary of State, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u10	But education is still fortunately a ticket to a better life for us, so on behalf of the government, I ask you to back up the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u11	Thank you for your presentation, in the future I ask you to stick to the time limit. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Maša Kociper, first of all, you have the floor on behalf of the Party Ambassador Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today we are again deciding on the adoption of the Law on Financing Education and Education to a proposal that brings about certain changes. It is a matter of trying to implement the Constitutional Court's decision after five years, while the law is also somewhat broader in this area and in our opinion it is more orderly in the field of private schools. In our country, we had a law in force, the Law on Financing for Education and Education, which, inter alia, provided for in this way, the State decided that private schools were allowed to be financed at 85% in addition to public schools and schools with concessions. This has been a long-standing and political decision taken by this country, and the real private schools are allowed, but our country's decision to finance them at 85% is being financed at this level. Countries in Europe have different ways of addressing this issue. Some don't support private schools, some of them. Those who do have different financing for these private schools. Some are fully funded, some not at all. As it is said, until the constitutional decision in question, the regulation and direction of our country was such that they were allowed and financed at 85%. Such guidance was confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its 21st point of the 2001 decision, when it explicitly stated that the decision on the level of financing of private schools without concession was a decision within the domain of the State. The constitutional decision we are discussing today has established that financing in schools with a public programme for a public programme should be 100%. This is where the trouble started. The opponents of the law are convinced that the Constitutional Decision is perfectly clear and that it speaks together about the so-called mandatory and extended programmes. Those who support the law are of the view that the decision is not so clear. It is also clear that we have been discussing this decision for five years. Even the rapporteur, the constitutional judge who prepared the case, said after the adoption of the constitutional decision that it applied only to the compulsory part of the programme. Later he changed his mind. Various opinions were also given by legislative and legal services. In 2017, on the same constitutional decision, the Legislative and Legal Service said that it did not touch the extended part of the programme in any way, but this time it said otherwise. In short, we have a final decision on how much we want the state to finance a private school programme without a concession. The government, the Ministry, with its experts, has taken the view that 100 % of all funding will be given to the part of the programme that primary school children have to attend in order to make sure that they have attended primary school. So, objects per subject, all that's mandatory, what you have to visit, that you are considered to have done a public programme of primary school. Of course, what you have to do does not include extended stay, morning protection, and so on. This is the decision of this State and the legislator, which is now likely to be retested by the Constitutional Court. What will be the fate of today's veto, I don't know. If the law announces and enters into force, so do I and our SAB Group expect a final decision from the Constitutional Court, or do we fully finance private school programmes that do not have concessions in our country. If the decision is not taken if the law falls, it is difficult for us to continue negotiations on what is the compromise that we are able to achieve in this house. That we're not able to reach him, but they've shown things over the last five years. This page says that the only possible solution is that 100% is entirely financed, this side believes that only a mandatory programme is financed 100%, too, but there is a medium that wants one less than one more, and in fact none has 46 votes. So once again, I appeal, my opinion is, let's cut the Gordy knot by adopting the law and seeing what will be definitively and completely accurate about this dilemma is said by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Jurij Lep, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear guests, State Council, Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! On Monday, the Council of State voted veto on the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, which has raised a lot of dust in the past and will obviously be now. There is no way that we can agree on the financing of private education in any way or in any other way on how we can finally implement the constitutional decision, which, like us politicians, is interpreted by lawyers, parents, teachers and everyone else. This acid and hard apple is subject, unfortunately, to ideological debates both on the professional and political floor. This is a Gordy knot that will have to be cut once and for all. We wrote in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia almost 30 years ago that education is free, with primary school compulsory and funded by public funds. In what way it is financed, however, depends on the state itself. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that the financing of private education is inadequate. To which direction should the decision makers turn or turn when they try to correct this inadequacy, the court of course did not specify. At that time, the competent ministry had drawn up a proposal that we had discussed in the home work bodies and discussed it at the previous regular meeting. In the Desus Group, we have given quite a lot of attention to this sensitive topic, perhaps too much, given that we have sought and tried to compromise in the coalition when adopting the amendments and the additions. In our parliamentary group, we are still, in the first place, committed to maintaining public education, which is very well developed in Slovenia and provides good results in achieving standards and levels of knowledge in primary schools. To ensure that there is no mistake, we do not oppose private schools, and we fully agree that the state must definitely finance part of their public policy programme. In our parliamentary group, we see a clear distinction between public and private as an important element of the Education and Education Financing Act. In this place, I will repeat the words of our view of the consideration of the law at the previous regular meeting of the National Assembly. Public schools are the foundation of Slovenian education with a long tradition and are also known for its outstanding achievements at international level. The existing public network of schools is high-quality and makes accessible to everyone throughout the country, so we agree that this public network must be protected. A novelist protecting the existence of a public school and a network is therefore welcome. After five years of searching for the right solution, we believe that this law will satisfy the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Constitutional Court could only determine how its decision should be implemented. We will vote in our parliamentary group as we did in our previous regular session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u15	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are supposed to believe in the Government or the Ministry that we have before us the amendment of the law, namely the ZOFVI, which implements the decision of the Constitutional Court and follows the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. How can I trust the Ministry, which today is represented by the Secretary of State and not by the Minister? How can I trust a ministry with state secretaries who shamelessly paint themselves with totalitarian symbols and advocate public education as an independent school? How can those who say today that the Constitutional Court's decision is incomplete and that it will be final when the new novelties come to the Constitutional Court and then the side of Parliament will receive a final confirmation or decision? It is a shame that after almost 30 years, independent Slovenia is threatened with democratic gains of confidence in institutions that are supposed to strengthen democracy, to lose confidence in the National Assembly as an institution that should respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which should be followed as a basic act of our country. But it's obviously only supposed to do it. Part of Parliament still denies the final decision of the Constitutional Court and also denies the constitutional provisions. Constitutional democracy in Slovenia is not without the guardian of the Constitution and human rights, so it is not without the Constitutional Court, so avoiding the enforcement of decisions by the Constitutional Court in order to discredit those who train children in non-State schools is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is not of the will of the authorities, would make it impossible to change the Constitution, which would abolish even any private or economic initiative. Making fun of those who think a little differently, teaching their children by their own constitution or conscience, which also belongs to them under the Constitution, is in fact a continuation of the one in the previous regime, a mockery of all those who did not think the same way as the authorities. Even today, we do not recognize and ridicule those who teach children in a different way or in nonstate schools. The state, the ministry, the government, today would still like to determine which school any child should go to, and of course this should be a state school, because control is perfect — because if you control schools, you control people too. The rape of the Ministry and the government by a new law, which does not follow a constitutional decision, but even less the constitution, has given rise to wings on the basis of the ideology of the totalitarian regime. The threat of the Left to the abolition of the private and, at times, to the overwhelming approval of the coalition in its entirety, constitutes a threat to democratic processes and a democratic gain of Slovenia's independence. It follows from the constitutional duty of pupils to attend compulsory primary school, public programmes in these schools, that all such public programmes should also be financed equally, as the Constitutional Court has made clear in its decision 2014. The Constitution also provides a free choice in which a child will be educated. The new law, which is being re-examined today, according to the veto of the State Council, re-sets the programmes, redefines them and distinguishes them between public programmes and programmes that have gained public validity in private schools, makes the financing of public programmes in non-state schools worse. Following a decision of the Constitutional Court, the public programmes to be offered by the school must be financed in the same way, regardless of who the founder is or whether the state or someone else. Programmes following the partisan interests of the school are excluded. Parents are now paying 15% of this public service programme, which would be 35% after the novel. In the multi-annual debate, both in the National Assembly and in the public, we are dealing not only with the novel, but fully with the ideological gap between those who advocate a private initiative, among those who advocate decisions of the Constitutional Court and respect the Constitution, and among those who would completely end and crush the private initiative in Cali what is different from the state. Deceiving in style to create elitism in private schools is like propaganda somewhere in some history, which has driven so many and many Slovenians to foreign or death, and this is said by those who have privileges in Slovenia and are considered to be elites in private schools. The call for closure of private and post-referendum calls are also similar to those from the history of the previous century when large farms, family enterprises, were nationalised. At that time and today, it would have been violent or, even more vilely, a referendum would have asked the people. Despite the rejection of the law by the Government, various legal opinions and the State Council [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u17	Madam Ambassador, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u18	The government continues with the balinian work. [[…]] The question is, how long? We will not support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u19	Thank you for your position. Mr Brane Golubović on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u20	Your Honor! I will begin my position with a statement by the President of the Council of State when the veto has been voted. Let me quote: "It is about where the Slovenian society will go from this day forward. Do we want the state in the state institutions to give birth to us, that the country in kindergarten is raising us, that the country will then come out to us, that the country will hire us, that it will eventually live in peace and eventually bury us through the state company?" End of quote. For the first time, the statement by the President of the Council of State shows that public and private education is far more than just a matter of funding. This is a question of the social concept, a tendency to privatise the public, and this is for a slim state in the State Council. Part of the policy, which is legitimate, advocates a country that promotes the privatisation of education, health care and other public services, services private business interests, covers the losses of private companies and so on. On the other hand, we are also parties who advocate a solidarity model of the country, which we are aware that without a development-oriented economy there is no strong social state and vice versa, parties who want to preserve the concept of the country, which we have also enshrined in the Constitution. This does not mean that we restrict anyone's right of choice in the List of Marjan Šarc. No, but we advocate that the school system remain public and fully financed by the state, together with the municipalities, as we would like to see public health services remain. It is a matter of general accessibility and equal starting points, regardless of social status. But regardless of our position, the fact that we have a five-year-old constitutional decision that requires a change in the financing of private education. We do not advocate the solution proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija in the List of Marjan Šarc in order to fully equalise the financing of public and private primary schools. This is not even what the Constitutional Court requires of us. However, we have shown that we want to find a compromise. Thus, at the Committee's meeting, we proposed a supplement to allocate some of the funds to the extended programme, not to public schools or to their weakening. We offered our hand honestly, but most of the board refused. Unfortunately, so is the Ministry of Education. Either way, the opportunity was, now it's too late, the law can only be supported or rejected. We'll support him in another. Why? Because, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, it allocates 100 % of the funds to the compulsory private school programme, i.e. as much as public schools receive for the compulsory programme. To be against this legal version would mean to be up to 100% for a compulsory programme, which must be carried out by every student — in a public or private school. The second question is whether it would be fair for the State to partly finance the extended programme. In LMŠ, we believe that a small part of the extended programme of private primary schools, which is necessary for the implementation of the compulsory programme, should also be co-financed. This decision is also made possible by a decision of the 2001 Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Judges then stated that co-financing of private schools depends on the legislator who decides whether he will finance only public schools in which all parents can enter children, or also private schools. Your Honor! We are not making any illusions that today's decision, no matter what it is, will end the story of financing private primary schools. We will face interpolation, perhaps the proposal for a constitutional indictment, constitutional judgement and the like. Let me stress once again, financing private primary schools is not an ideological fight, but a question of the social concept or what kind of society we want to live in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u21	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Marko Koprivc on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President for your word. The distinguished representative of the Council of State, representatives and representatives of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members! The position of the Social Democrats in re-decision on the amendment of the Law on Financing and Organising Education and Education is clear. We will support the law because we believe that it is a constitutionally consistent, fair and good solution to the finding of non-compliance with the current regulation with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In public school we see the realization of equal opportunities for everyone and everyone to gain knowledge and develop their talents for a creative, active and full life in our society. In the public network of public services in the fields of education, health, social care and other subsystems, we can guarantee that Slovenia will also develop in advance as a country relatively low social differences and broad opportunities for social advancement. Everyone's company for everyone. In doing so, respected and respected Social Democrats also respect private education, especially when it comes to alternative approaches to teaching practice, which, due to different approaches, bring diversity, new approaches and choices to the school field. As a country, this is possible in an internationally comparable way with a relatively high standard of co-financing public funds. In the Constitutional Court's decision, we see a clear direction to ensure equal funding for the compulsory programme in public and private schools. We do not see, however, any constitutional or other reasons for breaking the balance between public and private. Rather than allowing us to do so, we would have been encouraged. Our public education is very good. We want to improve it to give Slovenian children and young people the best tools for new challenges in the future. That is why Minister Pikalo began the extensive process of preparing a White Paper on the future of Slovenian education to respond to the key strategic challenges and to develop Slovenia into one of the best educational, educational, academic, research and innovation systems in the world. Therefore, in this set of options, we carefully weigh acceptable priorities. While you claim that we fully finance private schools, Slovenian parents pay 86 000 344 children on average € 136 per month for the protection of children in public schools. While you are demanding that we fully finance private schools, every year we would need at least EUR 20 million for the necessary investments in public primary schools for the repair of roofs, energy rehabilitation, the construction of gyms and so on. While you are demanding that we fully finance private schools, public universities have a need for €136 million to invest in equipment, investment maintenance and new construction. While you are demanding private school funding, the R & D field is underfed and needs at least EUR 200 million to be at least able as a society to keep pace with the transition to modern technological, social, economic and environmental challenges. That is why, respected and respected, priorities must be set. It's not just 360,000 euros, as you like to say. The point is that it is not possible to isolate this issue from the whole of social challenges. Blue is the policy that carefully and prudently addresses long-term needs, challenges and options for decision-making on priorities. Not with the present and not with the proposed novel, no one has a reduced right to choose. No one. And not to special life, religious or pedagogical principles. As this society enables them and develops broad equality and equality in access to education, as a society we achieve by means of a well-developed, well-developed and quality network of public schools with broad emancipatory and developmental effects that the Slovenian public school brings back to society. Slovenia is a small country, there are not many areas where we are really at the top of the world's best. Education is one of these areas, so let's protect it and not allow radical interventions, but let's make sure that, in line with the new teaching knowledge, with the development of technologies and the introduction of innovative approaches, it becomes even better because, more than all other social subsystems, this field will decide on the answer to the question of what kind of life we will live in this society for decades to come.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u23	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mag. Branislav Rajić has the floor on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! Ideological political periphery, which follows each other in the current attempt to regulate private school funding, is already getting very tired, but it is not the left and right parliamentary hemisphere that polarises not the left and right parliamentary hemisphere, but also the citizens and citizens, and in a little more than the polarisation of people into unequal and unfair situations that place children. Children rich or poor, gifted or with special needs, as well as purely average children, for whom it is the duty of the State to create conditions for them to receive appropriate education. Regardless of the various school walls for which they are raised and educated, we refer to the ideologically fragmented Constitutional Court, its judges and judges as well as their close decisions to avoid responsibilities as resourceful politicians. We have heard a lot of untruths, misunderstandings and deceptions in recent weeks, but we are still unable to admit that client values are still more important than the values that the Constitution dictates. If we had this consciousness, we would not have decided today on the veto of the State Council and, above all, in a just and impartial manner, we would have implemented the almost unfulfilled decision of the Constitutional Court. That would be a real success in which Minister Pikalo would earn at least another term. Thus, we do not agree on whether the proposed amendment implements the constitutional decision because we do not agree on the decision on our own and therefore obviously do not respect it. Nor do we respect the fundamental constitutional requirements of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. Did we have a fig tree in our pocket when we made a commitment to respect the Constitution, even when its decision - making mechanism would lead to solutions that we would not agree with? Since 2014, when it has become evident that we need a new social agreement on the issue of public and private relations in the school field, in the SMC Group we stress that public education is the basis of our educational system and that it is unacceptable to fully equalise public and private school funding and that school legislation needs additional safeguards that will continue to be understood by private education as a complement to and enriching the public, not as a supremacy to the public. And by no means at the expense of constitutional play. And here we are different from all those who warn that only Slovenian public school is a good and quality school and that it is important that it stays that way. From the first day forward, when we have been familiar with the content of the bill, we draw attention to its constitutionally weak points and, in addition, to the fact that there is no fundamental sense of fairness and fairness, at least seemingly, by the deterioration of the current situation and the actual maintenance of the anti-constitutional regime during the transitional period. There's an argument about why it's fair, but we didn't get it. In fact, the starting point of this law has already been impossibility, since the amendment of the law has been put into the hands of a minister who has recently been convinced that the alignment of the compulsory part of the programme of public and private schools is unacceptable. It is then difficult to believe in the sincere purpose of implementing a constitutional decision. This scepticism has been more than confirmed during the legislative process. We understand that, for some, it is convenient for our principled positions to be referred to as anti-cooperational, even directed at public education, and they would like to see the government overthrow itself because of our previous vote on the proposal. It's not gonna be that simple. It's not the time. Therefore, toying with the idea that the ultimate failure of the law is the exclusive fault of SMC, the lost game. Rather, let us play with the thought of whether the time is coming to accept the individual responsibility of such political paupership as we have witnessed since the beginning of the law. In the SMC, we have not voted for the constitutionally disputed law for the first time and we have not voted for the second time. We are not and will not participate in such a clear ideological restoration of school space. The rule of law and the principles of equality and justice must also be respected on the basis of disagreement with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and, in particular, non-conclusion at the expense of ideology: left, right, central. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u25	Thank you, Member, for your presentation on the Group's position. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution, the purpose and content of Article 57 have been clear and unequivocal for more than 20 years. It is possible for anyone to choose freely in what ways he is educated and where, but the country is only obliged to finance compulsory education in public schools. Private school funding is not compulsory. The Constitutional Court in its 2001 decision also confirmed this. But the right hand, with the RDC at the helm, has been undermining regulation in favour of the public for more than 20 years. By a narrow majority of 5 to 4 in 2014, the Constitutional Court thus amended its opinion. In her explanation, this narrow majority showed her real neoliberal face when she wrote that in Slovenia it was a prominent predominance of public schools. As if the existence of a high-quality network of public schools were a problem. Can we therefore expect from the Constitutional Court tomorrow the position that it is a strong predominance of public hospitals in Slovenia and a strong predominance of state prisons over private and public security in order to exercise a strong influence over the police? Mr Aloyz Kovsca, President of the Council of State, made clear that behind all the good words of the right, there is an appetite for the dismantling of the social state. I quote: “This is about where the Slovenian society will start from today. Do we want the state in the State Institute to give birth to us, that the country in kindergarten is raising us, that the country will then go out to hire us, that the state will eventually continue to support us in retirement and still bury us through the state company?" End of quote. It is problematic for the right to have children born in universally accessible public institutions, that there are public kindergartens and schools, that there is a solidarity pension system and public homes for the elderly. Because he is trying to hide it with rhetorical pyruettes because he knows that the Slovenian public is firmly behind the principle of solidarity and the public good, he is involved in contradiction and stumbling at his own feet. While cheering for private schools, it also acknowledges that Slovenian public schools are very good. But if that's the case, then why do we even need private schools? The right also insists that private schools do not endanger public schools. But why does he at the same time claim that the quality of public schools is due to private competition? Slovenian public schools are good and good despite, not because of private schools. These public schools are an integral part of the social state. The Left will defend the social state at all times and everywhere, because it is the only real existing instance that can allow individuals and individuals, without exception, to realize all their potentials. If this law is not adopted today, there will certainly be a rotten compromise between the Government and the right, a law that will increase the financing of private schools and threaten public education in the long term. The actions of the LMŠ and the statements of the President of the Government have clearly announced this. For this reason, Levica will today support this law, although we see it only as a temporary solution to the change of constitution, which should clearly establish a gap between public and private education. As a result of this view, we socialists have been given the impression that we want to eliminate private property. We were able to hear that in our views today. This has not happened for the first time, I will tell you from the 150-year-old text: “Fear and horror surround you with the thought that we want to eliminate private property. But in today's society, private property for nine dozen of its members has already been eliminated. bourgeois property exists because it does not exist for nine tenths. So you're telling us that we want to eliminate property, which is a prerequisite for leaving the vast majority of society without property. In short, you tell us that we want to eliminate your property – we certainly want it.” Marx, Engels, Communist Party Manifesto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. He will be the last to present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u28	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! At today's meeting, we are discussing the rule of law whether the legislative branch of government is ready to respect the judiciary. This is a fundamental question. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are not negotiated in any normal democratic country, but are simply implemented. Even if Slovenia were a normal democracy, these things would not have been negotiated, but the Constitutional Court's decision would have been implemented long ago. The veto of the State Council is in some way a call to normality, a call to follow the legal path of the rule of law. Why is the veto of the State Council the voice of normality? Because you can't implement the Constitutional Court's decision by making things worse. The decision of the Constitutional Court was clear. She said that the public programme approved by the State should be financed equally everywhere, regardless of the walls under which it is carried out, behind the walls built by the congregation, or by the walls built by the private. The decision to make these matters worse can definitely not represent the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision in the rule of law. There have been many manipulations in the debates about all of this. The first manipulation that has managed to be made public is that we decide between private and public. Don't hold it. We are talking and talking exclusively and only about the financing of a public policy approved by the State. It is also being manipulated at all times that there are two different decisions of the Constitutional Court on the same matter. That's not true either. The Constitutional Court has ruled on two different matters: once a public programme and twice a general education programme. It is also not a matter of money, it is a question of EUR 500 000 or half a million, which is negligible compared to the two billion budget of the Ministry, even recognised by Member Desusa Polnar. ZOFVI is not talking about an extended and compulsory programme, but it is only about compulsory primary education. Therefore, in this solution, the Minister has skillfully brought in an extended and compulsory programme, which is an integral part of the Basic Education Act. It's also not about funding a believer. Even if this law were not adopted today, and even if it were adopted that everything was financed 100 %, the religious community in schools would never be financed because the state and the church are separate. In Novi Slovenija, we will vote against the proposal of Minister Picol because he does not respect the judiciary because he is ardent at the opinion of the two legislative and legal services – both governmental and parliamentary – and not least because the unconstitutionality of this law is pointed out by a number of prominent lawyers who cannot be classified on the right side. If today's veto is voted, no one can certainly celebrate it. The biggest losers will certainly be parents and students, who will continue to be second-rate, who will continue to be unconstitutionally distinguished and who will continue to be given less for the public programme. The way this unconstitutionality, to undo this injustice, is to reject today's law of Minister Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u29	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Dear Members, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Mrs. Masha Kociper, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u30	Your Honor! The National Assembly has demonstrated that it has not been able to adopt a compromise proposal in five years. This means that, at this level, it is simply not possible to reach a compromise at legislative level on how to adequately co-finance private schools or public programmes in private schools without concession. In our SAB Group, we will support the proposal for a law on re-decision, and I now predict that if the law falls, we will begin by collecting signatures for the referendum, that this Gordic knot is cut down by people and say whether they want private schools to be financed by public money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u31	Madam Members, thank you for presenting the position of the Group. Mag. Matthew Tonin, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u32	The New Slovenia Group will vote against the law of Minister Pikal because it is unconstitutional. In addition, there are some very important things that are important for the future, they are dangerous and they are wrong, and this is also one of the reasons why we will vote against this law. Three points. Point one. The law, written by Minister Pikalo, not only endangers the existence of non-governmental schools but also non-governmental kindergartens. The existence of more than 60 other non-governmental kindergartens will be jeopardised by the application of the distinction between public programmes and programmes that have gained public validity. The State Council thus warns that this can lead to a situation in which some 2,000,500 children will be left unprotected. This is one of the reasons why we will be against this law of Minister Pikal. Second point. The Community of Higher Education Schools of Slovenia addressed the Ministry with an open letter asking whether higher education institutions could implement the public-level curricula and not obtain concessions for them. The Ministry's response is unclear and they believe that this law makes it impossible for ministers to do so. In the Community, higher vocational schools believe that this new Pikalov law will prevent the further financing of public programmes in these institutions. This will affect 230 regular and 2 thousand 700 outstanding college students. And the third point is why it is necessary to oppose this law of Minister Pikal. Because Minister Pikalo dangerously introduced a distinction between mandatory and extended programmes into this law. The extended programme shall be considered as morning care, afternoon care, supplementary and additional training. This distinction can mean that in the future the extended programme will also become profitable in government schools. This is unacceptable to us. These are three additional reasons why we will oppose the unconstitutional and bad law of Minister Pikal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 23. [[advertising from the hall]] [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I do not need to consult, because the result of the vote does not change by one vote. I note that the law has not been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Intermediation. At its 5th extraordinary meeting, on 15 July 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before its announcement, decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. To explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Mitja Gorenščku. Here you go, Mr. Councilman.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u34	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and others present! Allow me to give you a brief summary of the opinion of the Council of State at the time of receipt of the veto on the law in question. Real estate companies were expected to finally abolish the current traffic regulation in the real estate market, but for the second time, the country has been trying to introduce further regulation of this market over a period of two years. The law governs an area where, depending on the will of the contractual partners in the real estate business, whether or not to include a real estate intermediary in the business. While we agree that the amendment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act is needed primarily for the purpose of adapting the law to a European directive that already threatens us with penalties, it is not tactful that through the side door we are winding up changes that are unnecessary and contrary to the expected deregulation of the market. In their explanation of the proposal, the applicants stated that the main objectives of the proposal are to reduce housing prices and to ensure effective consumer protection. The first objective with the content of the law has nothing to do with the fact that the prices of real estate are both for rent and for buying high due to undersupply and oversupply. The State should therefore take other measures to increase the supply of real estate on the market and consequently prices would fall. However, the second argument cannot be maintained, as the law does not in any way improve the effectiveness of consumer protection. The first contested legal solution relates to the limitation of the maximum allowable payment for intervention in rental transactions to a maximum of 4 % of the agreed value. The applicant's argument is that there is such a regulation in the purchasing relationship, but the problem is not that the lease is not regulated so far, but that the purchase is regulated. Such a provision constitutes a grave intervention in a free economic initiative provided by Article 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, such a restriction will primarily reduce the number of leases that will be provided by real estate intermediaries, since intermediaries will not take over transactions for which they will not be able to count on an appropriate payment. This will lead to a significantly lower legal certainty for the parties, but at the same time significantly less tax collection. Such a change could also result in an increase in the black market in real estate. The second measure concerns the prohibition of the sharing of real estate intervention costs currently permitted by the law. The proposal stated that the real estate transfer service should be paid by the person who ordered it. In the event that the contracting authority itself fully covers the costs of real estate intervention, it will only protect the interest of the contracting authority and thus destroy one of the basic purposes of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, which is to ensure the effective protection of the interests of both parties. The proposal stated that, in particular, they wanted to lower the price of leased real estate, which they would not be able to achieve through this measure, as the customers would adapt to the new market situation in the process and the costs would shift to the price. However, the most incomprehensible and non-lifelike provision in Article 6 of the Act, which imposes a limitation of the actual costs that a real estate company can charge, is EUR 150. Such a grave intervention in a constitutionally guaranteed free economic initiative should be based on firm arguments from the applicant, while at the same time justifying a certain limitation of actual costs to EUR 150 and drawing up a specification covering the costs. In short, no other country in the European Union is aware of the severe restrictions imposed by the new law. In the context of the adaptation of legal solutions to European Union law, it should also be noted that new legal solutions are also clearly contrary to the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. Slovenia has explicitly proposed a revision of the price cap for real estate intervention, but our activities are unfortunately going in the opposite direction as proposed. In view of all of this, it is more than obvious that in this case it is a political manoeuvre and that it is contrary to European Union law and the constitutional regulation of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, the injured economic operators and their associations have already announced a complaint against the European Commission and the assessment of the constitutionality of the law at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. By rejecting this law we would avoid [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u35	Please complete your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u36	the significant negative consequences for the business of companies in the sector, as well as the failure of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Commission. [[…]] I therefore suggest that you not adopt such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much for your opinion. The request was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Edward Paulic, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u38	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 16th emergency meeting, on 17. Seven. 2019 as a parent labourer treated the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. The representative of the Council of State pointed out, with regard to the limitation of the level of payment for the intervention in rental transactions to a maximum of 4 % of the contract value, that this provision constitutes a grave breach of the free economic initiative provided by Article 74 of the Constitution. According to the National Council, the number of rentals through real estate intermediaries will be reduced as they will not be able to take over transactions for which they will not be able to charge the appropriate price. Among other things, this will result in a significantly lower legal certainty for customers and less tax collection. In the opinion of the Council of State, the provision imposing a restriction on the actual costs that a real estate company can charge itself to EUR 150 constitutes a grave breach of the constitutionally guaranteed free economic initiative. As regards the measure relating to the prohibition of the sharing of the costs of real estate intervention, according to the Council of State, the majority of the obligations imposed on the real estate company by the law in force specifically to protect the interest of the buyer or the lessor are therefore the most interested in the involvement of the real estate intermediary as an expert. In the event that the contracting authority will always fully cover the costs of the intervention, the intermediary will adapt to the interest of the contracting authority, thereby eliminating one of the basic purposes of the current law, which is an effective protection of the interests of both parties. On behalf of the bill-maker, Mr Mesec stressed that the law protects both the tenant and the lessee from excessive and unforeseen costs. He pointed out that the law applies only to natural persons, whereas nothing changes for legal persons in this area. He also pointed out that the provisions of the law would also benefit real estate companies, as both lessors and lessors would, at the moderate cost of real estate brokering to a greater extent, opt for the rental of real estate companies in the course of the conclusion of business. The representative of the Government stressed that, in the view of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the proposed solutions were in line with the objectives of housing policy, as they would contribute to the promotion of longer-term housing and renting and consequently to greater housing security for tenants, and the law also provided for the harmonisation of national legislation with EU legislation in the field of regulated professions. In a short discussion, support for the law was reiterated by the Left Group. At the same time, they expressed in particular their opposition to the State Council's assertion that the actual costs that a real estate company can charge should be limited to EUR 150. It was pointed out that the real estate company and the contracting authority could agree that, in addition to the transfer payment, the contracting authority would also pay for additional services which do not belong to the real estate intermediation service and should be explicitly defined in the intervention contract. On the part of the New Slovenia Group, it was pointed out that the law is contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution and constitutes a grave breach of a free economic initiative. In their view, the law will create a more black market in the area of real estate intervention, resulting in less tax collection and less legal certainty for both the lessee and the lessor. In their view, the State should pay more attention to increasing the non-profit housing fund and begin to address the problem of a large number of vacant dwellings that owners do not hope to pass on due to high taxes and insufficient legal certainty. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, by a majority of votes, the opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Luka Mesac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. As you may have heard, veto promoters say that the amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act is a step in the wrong direction, because, according to them, the real estate market should be deregulation and we are increasing regulation. But if you look over your shoulder and look at what the state has done for the last 25 years in the real estate market, we will see that there was anarchy, a private initiative and the absence of any policy. If it's not a deregulation, then I don't know what it is. But the results are here. I have said several times that there are 10 000 public dwellings in Slovenia, and today I will be two more. In 2018, a person with an average salary if he took a 20-year loan could buy 0.8% of the affordable apartments offered in Ljubljana at the time. Thus, a man with an average salary of 20 years was able to afford only 1 apartment out of 100 in Ljubljana, which was offered. The average size of this apartment, which a man with a 20-year loan and an average salary could afford, was 17 square meters. This is the first result of deregulated housing policy. The second result of the deregulated housing policy is as follows. The ones who couldn't afford the apartments went on rent. But in Slovenia we have most short-term leases, usually concluded for 12 months, which means that tenants are not contractually protected from price increases. Each year, they renegotiate with the lessor on what the rent will be next year. The result is that in 2018 Ljubljana was the European capital, where rents grew the fastest, by 18% in one year. Today, real estate agencies come and say that the issue needs to be further deregulation. In Levika we answer “thank you very much”. What needs to be done is to put housing policy in order. The largest project in this sense, Levi and I have set ourselves up for the fall when we present a new housing law with the Ministry of Environment and Space, which will regulate the conditions for the construction of public rental apartments to start filling this less than 10,000. Another policy we have been trying for months is to convince the Government to transfer the properties that are suitable for housing from a bad bank to the Housing Fund. The Housing Fund has estimated 9 locations to be very suitable, and at these nine locations it could build almost 3,000 apartments. The third policy we have proposed is the Real Estate Intermediation Act, which we are trying to regulate part of the housing relationship. The problems we solve with this law are, for a short time, the following. The first is that we prescribe the maximum commission that the real estate agency can take, and that is 4% in housing. This 4% was not invented by us, but we have simply redesigned the same arrangement as it currently applies to the sale of apartments. Even there, the real estate agency must not cut more than 4%. This policy will likely also result in longer-term leases, as 4% is linked to the contract value and the real estate agency will be in the interest of making the contract longer, thereby improving the protection of tenants. The second limit is that the actual costs of an agent for renting apartments must not exceed 150 euros without a different agreement, which will protect both the lessor and the lessor, and the third that the service will be paid only by the one who orders it. Usually ordered by the lessee and then paid by the lessee, even though he did not order and did not sign the contract. That 4%, that's 150 euros and the service paid by the one who orders it, are all that this law brings. Of course, this has led to the sting of an interest group that now says that the law is unconstitutional. We will support the marriage once again because none of what we have heard before is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr Member, for further explanation of the opinion. Do I understand well that we have a procedural proposal? Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Most of you are sitting there by some expert on the right, shooting a session, and it's glowing in our head with a red light. We have the coverage of every session on the parliamentary channel, and there, in fact, everyone, even for pear needs, can cover the video signal, and please, if this can stop because it is disturbing. Thank you. I'm not some piece of shit here who's gonna shoot me in the head in the middle of a session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u43	Our sessions are public, we're aware of that, aren't we? [[advertising from the hall]] That's a yes. Dear Members, we have received a procedural proposal, which is in fact such that we must follow the instructions we have to operate in this Chamber and please take this into account in the future. This leads us to an explanation of the opinion to be delivered by the Government's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have examined in detail the amendment of the law and note that the amendments proposed by this amendment relate mainly to the harmonisation of the provisions of the law with European Union legislation in the field of regulated professions and the regulation of the level and the obligation to pay the costs of real estate intervention. The proposal removes the obstacle that only citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can perform national professional qualifications and foreigners can obtain professional qualifications only abroad. The current regulation is not in line with European legislation in this area, which the European Commission has already warned us about in July of last year. With the proposed changes, anyone will now be able to obtain a national professional qualification for a real estate broker in Slovenia. However, anyone who has obtained this qualification abroad will be able to be recognised by the procedure for recognition of professional qualifications. Because of high market prices and lack of rents, accessibility to suitable housing is currently hampered. Therefore, at the Ministry of the Environment, in accordance with the guidelines of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme for the period 2015-2025, we have taken an active approach to reshaping housing policy. As mentioned earlier, the housing law will be publicized in the autumn. At the time of adoption of the new law, the proposed amendment is one of the measures supported by the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Real Estate Intermediation Act already limits the amount of the maximum allowed payment for intervention in the case of the purchase and sale of real estate and, in addition, this novelty introduces the amount of the authorised payment to a maximum of 4 % of the contract value but not more than one month's rent. At the same time, the amount of actual costs to which a real estate company is entitled shall also be limited to a maximum of EUR 150 when it is not entitled to an intervention payment. In addition to those restrictions, it is proposed that a clear provision be made that the costs of real estate intervention be borne entirely by the contracting authority. At the Ministry, we estimate that the proposed solutions are in line with the objectives of housing policy, as they will contribute to the promotion of longer-term housing and renting and consequently to greater housing security for tenants. At the same time, the transfer of the costs of real estate to the contracting authority of the service would protect tenants who would not have to pay the costs of brokering services that they had not ordered when renting in addition to rent and security. Finally, the proposed amendment to the law follows the Resolution on the National Housing Programme for the period 2015-2025 and its Action Programme and greater accessibility to housing and the regulation of the real estate market and in particular the regulation of the housing problem for young and young families, older and vulnerable groups. This will be followed by a thorough systemic change in housing legislation, so we propose that you re-adopt the Law on Real Estate Intermediation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u45	Thank you for your introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Hršak, you have the floor on behalf of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! Members of the DeSUS Group rightly announced that the Council of State would vote veto on the proposal of the amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. In this way, the State Council has once again shown that saints are not interested in the economically weaker inhabitants of our country, but that it is only important for them to defend the interests of capital. It also turned out that they did not understand the point of the novel proposal, as the councilors argue that the real estate market is a more economically powerful citizen, meaning that the proposed novel actually protects them rather than the socially weak. Of course, national councillors are right when we talk about buying and selling real estate. However, this novel, which, by the way, will be supported again by Members of the DeSUS Group, in order to protect tenants of apartments, i.e. not buyers, renters who rent apartments for a shorter period of up to one year in their housing difficulties must still pay fees when the lessee issues an apartment through the Agency. So the tenant has to pay for a service that has not been ordered at all. National councillors are also disturbed by the regulation of the prices of real estate services, since the state should also regulate other goods, not only that. At the same time, the Council of State forgets that a number of services are regulated when the state imposes a price limit, such as chimney services, driving examinations and so on. As I have already mentioned, Members of the DeSUS Group have not changed our belief in supporting the proposal for the amendment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act and we will support this proposal once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a re-decision on the proposal for a Real Estate Intermediation Act. I think that there is a clear signal for all Members and Members, given that a veto has been voted on in the State Council, which reminds us that there is a senseless rush in this law, and in particular warns us that this law is inquality and goes against all users of this law. Let me tell you why we cannot give support to this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have doubts about the urgency of the adoption of this law, because it is neither necessary nor necessary, nor contrary to constitutional principles, which is why there is also a constitutional opinion on some institutions. Since there is a limitation on the level of payment for intervention, it is necessary to weigh it in terms of the freedom of the economic initiative. Price regulation is not relevant, as the participation of a real estate intermediary is simply not mandatory. The introduction of new regulations for the consumer will not be beneficial as such a restriction will prevent real estate intermediaries from accepting commercial lows, consumers from doing worse, legal certainty will be lower, and the grey economy will increase, as there is no thorough analysis of the volume of contracts concluded, the average payment of interventions and the average rent on dwellings. The adoption of such a law also leads to the withdrawal of real estate companies from the market in this area and the reduction of the transparency of the rental market. Given the restrictions on the business of real estate companies, it would be right to obtain the position of the European Commission before the adoption of such a law, since Slovenia is a member of the European Union. We will not be able to support such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party even in today's vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Robert Pavšič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u50	Dear colleagues, good afternoon first! The rental market in Slovenia has not behaved since the transition, using an economic comparison, homogeneous. First, when the political system changed, it was shaken by the law of Jazbinš, which allowed a large majority of citizens to access their own place of residence at the same time allowing the accumulation of real estate for individuals who manage their apartments as capital and consequently nobility by rent or by reselling. Of course, this is totally legitimate and a basis for an entrepreneurial or private business initiative. However, the country has already recognised in the previous millennium that such an important area as the real estate market needs to be regulated because there have been too many anomalies. Various regulatory measures have also developed the ingenuity of avoiding the legal expectations of the system: if something is not prohibited, it is only allowed. Today we are facing a similar issue as at the previous point of today's extraordinary meeting. This time, too, it is not an expert question, but mainly a political one. Why? It was clear from the monitoring of the meeting of the State Council, which apparently extended the time frame of one political field, that interest groups or individuals always hear only what suits them, not the actual interpretations, arguments and situations. An attempt to amend the Real Estate Intermediation Act would bring a little more security to tenants if, for a moment, we consider another important consequence – compliance with European Union legislation. It would increase the possibility that leases can be concluded for a longer period of time and thus, at least in part, reduce the chronic shortage of rental apartments. It would reduce the over-inflated costs of some agencies and show that policy should look a little further, in particular as regards the regulation of black leases or the recent Airbnb. It is true that it is necessary to intervene on the market, not just in content, but to increase the costs that are in practice always passed on to the consumer. And our job is to prevent fraud and protect the weak. This time, too, in the Marjana Sharca Group, we will support the law with the knowledge that this item will not end in any way and that a further step will have to be taken soon, first by promoting housing and more consistent regulation of the real estate market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Sonibo Knezak has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u52	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act was suspended by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In their explanation of why they voted veto, they noted, inter alia, that the implementation of the law would have resulted in a grave interference with the constitutionally guaranteed right of economic initiative and that some of the solutions proposed by the applicants would have led to an increase in the black market in the area of real estate intervention, which they considered that the State would not be able to regulate at this time. The draft law, which is supposed to be contrary to EU law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has stopped the veto. The legal material to be decided on today will harmonise the provisions on the acquisition of qualifications for real estate brokers by European legislation, restrict the amount of costs that can be charged to the individual contracting authority and transfer the costs of real estate brokerage to the service contracting authorities and at the same time limit the maximum allowable payment for the rental or transfer of real estate. The law will limit rental costs to real estate seekers, encourage lessors to rent real estate for a longer period of time, which consequently means greater housing security for tenants or apartments. The current arrangement puts real estate prospectors in a very difficult position, since most of the time, in addition to securities, pre-paid rents and rents for the current month, they also have to pay intermediation costs for which they were not contracting. The initial cost of renting real estate sometimes exceeds a thousand euros in certain cases, especially for young employees and young families, which is a huge starting cost and a burden. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its first opinion, stated that it agrees with the proposed solutions adopted by law and believes that these solutions will contribute to greater accessibility of dwellings, greater security of tenants and encourage longer-term renting. Despite the postponement veto voted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the reasons already mentioned, reiterates its support for the proposal for a law. Young families, young employees and all those who resolve their housing situation by renting real estate or housing should be provided with the greatest possible housing security and financial sustainability in renting. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that these solutions bring relief and easier access to housing, greater housing security, financial sustainability and longer-term rental. The Group of Social Democrats will once again support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u53	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Gregor Perič has the floor on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, thank you for saying so! Less than a week ago, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act, which was tabled by the party Levica. The main amendments, which were also the reason why the State Council voted veto on the law, relate to the limitation of the maximum commission for real estate intervention in the lease contract and to the limitation of the amount of actual costs that the real estate company may charge to the contracting authority. Moreover, the law also provides for compliance with European legislation. According to the bill's proposer, the proposed changes on commissions and actual costs should help to make housing more accessible. The Council of State has requested Members to re-decision on the draft law, based on concerns that the proposed changes are too much for a free economic initiative and has expressed concern that the number of leases will be reduced due to additional restrictions, resulting in significantly lower legal certainty for consumers. The National Council also points to the possibility of increasing the illegal handover of dwellings and the resulting tax inflows. In the light of all of this, it is worth noting that almost a quarter of the apartments in Slovenia have already been illegally surrendered. This is the situation described in the Resolution on National Housing of the Programme for the period 2015-2025, adopted at the end of 2015. We have already expressed certain concerns about the proposed amendments in the SMC at the time of the adoption of the law, since the direct links between this additional regulation of real estate intermediation and the greater accessibility of rental apartments are not visible. It should be borne in mind that the key problem we are facing is the affordability of dwellings. This applies in particular to the amount of the rent. For this reason, caution should be exercised when predicting the effects of the proposed changes in terms of greater accessibility of dwellings. But let's give it time. Nevertheless, in the SMC we welcome the objective envisaged by the law's solutions, as these solutions could contribute to greater housing security for tenants and to the promotion of longer-term housing and rental. The fact is that this is only part of solving the housing policy issue. Unfortunately, this has in the past received little attention, and it is time to change that. The state creates conditions for the proper implementation of the constitutionally recorded choice in resolving the housing issue of its citizens. Today we can also contribute to this and reaffirm that the proposed changes represent a step forward in the area of housing policy. Finally, let me remind you once again that a new law on real estate mediation has been proposed within the mandate of the previous government. The law, after a veto in the National Assembly, did not receive sufficient support and its objective was the same as that of the law today: consumer protection in real estate. More. In both cases, there have been problems with the same substantive solutions and we can only guess why.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Natasa Sukič on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Over the last period, we have explained in detail what the proposed amendments to the law are bringing. They limit the amount of the payment to 4 % or not less than EUR 150 and not more than one month's rent; they remove the possibility of sharing the payment between the contracting party, i.e. between the buyer and the seller or between the lessor and the lessor; they limit the actual costs of real estate intermediaries to EUR 150, followed by a new agreement between the lessor and the agency on any additional costs. This will ensure transparency of business and prevent speculation or some flat-rate charging of prices. Here I draw attention to the manipulativeness of the State Council's argument, which we have explained to him at least twice this week that 150 euros does not represent a real definitive interference, but means that the guard will then sit down and discuss the actual potential new costs. Here I really warn you not to fall for these deceptions. The amendments also bring the law into line with European law in parts relating to the conditions for carrying out real estate intervention activities. This novel will therefore protect the most vulnerable groups of the population. In particular, I am talking about young people, as well as other vulnerable groups of the population, the unemployed, the pensioners, those with the lowest income, the nicknames, students who are increasingly economically insecure, as a result of the neoliberal disintegration of labour rights and the social state, on the one hand, and the lack of public rentals, on the other hand, are forcing them to rent expensive, expensive rental apartments. This is the main reason why, in the first step of the renovation of housing policies, we have embarked on the regulation of the rental market and the limitation of the levels of market rents and thus on speculative price increases. Every single one of us who's ever looked for an apartment to rent knows what that means. You're reporting on real estate ads, you're being interviewed about your private life, you have to be educated and busy, you can't smoke, you can't have children or pets, you have to have enough pay and so on, and so on and so forth, not to mention everything. And if you're finally selected for this kind of audition, you have to pay the cost of a real estate transaction service that you didn't even order and you didn't even want it, besides depositing security to the landlord. That means you get picked up, you get hit by at least a thousand euros before you even have the keys to this so-called-so-wanted apartment in your hands. By amending the law, we will therefore reduce the costs of intermediation by at least half and fully transfer them to the contracting authority. And I wouldn't have warned you anything yet. We should worry about the fact that almost all brokers charge two monthly rents. This rightly raises the suspicions of a cartel agreement and calls directly for state intervention. In the light of the realization of the public interest of affordable dwellings, the argument for limiting the level of fees mentioned above is only stronger. By limiting the actual costs of real estate intermediaries to 150 euros, we will thus prevent disputed practices of real estate agencies, which are pointed out both by the Slovenian Consumers' Association and the Market Inspectorate. A number of cases have been observed when real estate intermediaries charged these costs for transactions in which they did not actually intervene. These costs were high or even higher than the intervention fee. With the adoption of the law, we will implement one of the projects committed to by the Government with the signing of the cooperation agreement with Levica this year. We wrote the law in Levica and aligned it with the Ministry of Environment and Space and with the government coalition. At the request of the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have also included articles on the transposition of European directives. This is the end of the first of the projects of renovation of housing policies. Of course, we are aware that by limiting the level of fees when renting and limiting actual costs, we will not fully solve the burning housing problem, of course not. These changes are mainly a patch to the wound called the housing policy of the Republic of Slovenia, a wound that no one has healed in 25 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u57	Thank you for your position. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u58	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a real estate transfer law is contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. The Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and many Members have already warned about this. The European Commission has also pointed out that the existing provisions of the law could be contrary to the European legal order, and this version of the law is also moving away from the requirements of the European legal order. The veto of the State Council is an opportunity for the coalition to reconsider its conduct. In Slovenian politics, will conscious violation of the Constitution now become a political norm, something that can be done with your left hand? From now on, will the law determine how much ice cream can cost? Tomorrow we will feel that there are too many prices for auto-mechanical services, and we will by law limit the clock of the mechanic to EUR 15 gross. By law, according to your assessment, you are solving the problem of too little housing, too high rents, and the fact that leases are concluded for too short a time — all in order to protect the most vulnerable social groups. You have to be honest with me that you're not saving anything with this law. There will be even more black market, black, less tax collection, real estate intermediaries will no longer work and the legal security of the most vulnerable groups will deteriorate. What are we supposed to do? In Slovenia there are many empty and unoccupied properties. There are a lot of people who have stayed in large houses or certain houses are completely empty. Ask yourself why they don't offer these properties for rent. And I'm going to ask you - would you like to offer them a lease on current taxes and legal protection for tenants? The rate of rental tax is 25%. In one year, the lessee gives the country three monthly rents. That's a lot, especially if we look at the risk. There are many cases in Slovenia where renters did not pay rents, they did not pay different costs, billings for utilities, electricity. Not to mention the fact that many times the tenants destroyed the apartment. And what can the landlord do? Practically nothing. If he has a troubled tenant, it's very hard to get him out of his apartment. Therefore, the lessors should be adequately protected in cases where the lessor does not fulfil its obligations. Only the tenant can be insured and the lessor is in a totally subordinate position. In the end, his apartment, a stack of unpaid bills and legal costs remain to get the tenant out of his apartment. And what's going on? The owners of the vacant property do not choose to rent for the above reasons. By law, you want to solve the high prices of real estate. The only way to solve this is to make a bigger offer. The rate of non-profit rent has remained uncoordinated since 2006 and therefore is not the construction of public non-profit apartments. If it doesn't pay the investor to build, there won't be any new buildings, regardless of your marriage. The new construction will be the same as in previous years – virtually nothing. We will therefore vote against the adoption of the law in the New Slovenia Group. Also because this proposal does not solve housing problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u59	Thank you, Member, for your presentation of the Group's position. You have the last word on behalf of the mag groups. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we have re-declared the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. We have some concerns about this law in the SAB as well. The existing Real Estate Intermediation Act already limits the amount of the maximum authorised payment for intervention in the case of the purchase and sale of real estate. The novelty introduces the amount of the authorised payment for intervention in rental transactions to a maximum of 4 % of the contract value, but not more than one month's rent and not less than 150 EUR. The aim of the novel is to relieve mainly economically weaker customers whose initial amount of one or two leases represents a significant financial contribution. Limiting the maximum allowable payment for transmission, transferring the total costs of real estate intervention to the contracting authority, limiting the actual costs and aligning the provisions with European legislation. All of these are measures to obtain suitable housing and ensure effective consumer protection. The provision of Article 6 determining how payment for additional services may be required and when the intermediary is entitled only to the payment of actual costs is presented as a consumer protector. As indicated in the proposal, the real estate company shall be entitled to payment only if the payment of additional services is in writing between the parties. The measures proposed by the applicant to create greater opportunities for obtaining suitable housing are seen as a possible unauthorised interference of the State in the free market. The free economic initiative or contractual freedom provided for in Article 74 of the Constitution covers both freedom to conclude contracts, freedom of substantive regulation and freedom to form a type of undertaking. In the second paragraph of the same Article, it is laid down that economic activity must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit. In doing so, the applicant does not derive from systemic imbalances or market abuse. but operating with flat-rate indications. As a social-liberal party, it seems to us that we are introducing additional regulation for an open market activity. In order to assess, therefore, that in a particular case, the legislator has considerable powers to formulate economic policy and achieve its objectives. Through the amendment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, the proposer wants to address or solve the problems of tenants. In fact, the reason for the proposaler's initiative lies in the demand for housing, which has greatly exceeded the offer. The increased need for accommodation facilities is ideal for inflating prices, and real estate owners either as sellers or as lessors are exploiting the situation. Indeed, tenants are paying prices that in certain regions reach dizzying amounts, but I am sure that we will deal more effectively with the problem in another way, by eliminating the anomalies related to the lack of urban suitable land by eliminating long-term construction permits, by harmonising the value of the point of determining non-profit rent and solving other problems that limit the scope of the offer. Housing is lacking, and this is where the main problems we are talking about today come from. We presented our views in detail in the legislative process in the SAB. If the amendment is adopted, these and other concerns should be addressed by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-18-SDZ8-Izredna-25.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. This moves us to re-decision on the law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 21. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice day ahead!
