ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Nataša Sukič, Mag. Dejan Židan, Violeta Tomić, Janez Janša, Dr. Franc Trček by 1 p.m., Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 17.30 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez to 3.30 p.m., Ludmila Novak, mag. Matthew Tonin from 3 p.m. to 16 p.m., Matthew Udovč to 1 p.m. and Ivan Hršak to 6 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 13. TIME OF DAY — THE FOURTY-FOURTY YEARLY REPORT OF THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2018. The 24th Regular Annual Report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration. I therefore give the Ombudsman the floor to Mr Peter Svetina for further explanation of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, welcome on my behalf! The exercise of human rights and freedoms cannot and must not be delayed, but all changes and violations must be responded quickly and effectively. The Ombudsman, the Slovenian National Institute for Human Rights, presents his recommendations every year in an annual report. This is our most powerful tool, as we inform you of the decision makers through this report, and in particular we clearly point out the levels of human rights violations in Slovenia. I am pleased and pleased that today I will be able to enlighten you, Members and Members of Parliament, as well as the Slovenian public on this issue. Under the guidance of my predecessor, Ms Vlasta Nusdorfer, the Ombudsman's report for 2018 was prepared by her colleagues and colleagues, for which I thank them, since it was a little easier to start working on this challenging and responsible function when the report was prepared. The report is based on 4,719 cases dealt with in 2018. If we compare it with 2017, we can find that we have dealt with as many as 248 cases in last year and that there have been 398 initiatives. In these cases, the Ombudsman found 377 violations of human rights and other irregularities in 45 bodies. The current Ombudsman's report also contains 88 recommendations which I expect to be implemented by the authorities to which they are addressed, namely the Government, the National Assembly, the local communities and others. Some of them have been drifting for years. We can't be proud of that. This saddens me, which is why the question of responsibility is also crucial here. The guardian's job is to alert him to irregularities and violations. This is prescribed in the Constitution and in the Law on the Ombudsman, and you must abolish them to others. It is the legislative, judicial and, most often, the executive branch that the Ombudsman's recommendations take seriously and respond responsibly to them. It is not enough just to accept the recommendation, but it is essential that the Ombudsman's recommendation is also actually implemented and the National Assembly must keep an eye on it. I must say, we are surprised by the misunderstanding of the situation and the role of the Ombudsman by some enforcement officials. In particular, this is reflected in the response to the Ombudsman's initiatives and also in the negotiations on budgetary resources for the functioning of this national human rights institution. With the novelty of our birth law in 2017 and the consensus on the acquisition of status A, the legal obligations of the Ombudsman, including the Ombudsman's advice, the Centre for Human Rights, advocacy, international activities, we need not only human rights but also financial resources. By limiting the budgetary resources of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, however, the credibility of the institution and the acquisition or maintenance of status A is questioned in accordance with the Paris principles. I must also point out that the Government does not respond in due time to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, nor do adequate solutions be drawn up to eliminate unconstitutionality prior to the passage of statutory deadlines. More than 10 decisions of this court, which is the highest authority of the judiciary for the protection of the constitutionality of the rule of law and of human rights and fundamental freedoms, remain disregarded. The abolition of anti-constitution in laws is the responsibility of the National Assembly as legislator, but it is the duty of the Government, which is the proponent of legislation, to prepare the legal basis in a timely manner and to submit them to the legislative procedure. During all the years of its operation, the Ombudsman submitted 31 requests for an assessment of the constitutionality or legality of the regulation or general act issued for the exercise of public powers. Unfortunately, some of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which were adopted on the basis of the Ombudsman's proposal, have not yet received an appropriate response, as we recall in this annual report. Thus, the Constitutional Court’s decision on the financing of primary schools has not yet been implemented, even though they considered the proposal of the law yesterday. There is still no law to regulate the constitutional right to judicial protection for all pending and future actions concerning the deletion of qualified obligations under the Banking Act. The Mental Health Act has not yet been updated to harmonise the process of admission of persons deprived of their business decency in the protected section of the social welfare institutions, which is also a very topical problem that we have identified in our visits to the social welfare institutions that we have carried out in the last three months. Even in many Slovene municipalities, for example, they have not yet abolished the unconstitutional rules of categorisation of public roads. Nor have laws been adopted to protect the right to water entered by the Constitution, although the time limit for their adoption has expired already in May 2018, and could also be listed. Ladies and gentlemen, let me return to the initiatives where the Ombudsman has found human rights violations. As I said at the outset, 377 violations of human rights were justified in 2018, with a maximum of 87 in relation to non-compliance with the principle of fairness and good governance. Thus, for example, parents of blind and visually impaired children with instructions from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities were unjustifiably taken one supplement, although two possible supplements for parents and children are not excluded and should receive both. For so many years, parents have sought their right in court, even though we have warned that justice must be settled or legalized for the correction of injustices. Despite the Minister's assurances that this case has been resolved, I find that this is still not the case and that the promised deadlines are not respected again. In addressing initiatives, we have often also found that some authorities act too slowly, resolve their roles for too long, and overstep all reasonable marriages in decision-making. We all know that rapid decision-making is particularly important in resolving applications for recognition of rights from public funds or forms of social assistance and other procedures that have a significant impact on the life of an individual, and this is unacceptable. The authorities still often do not respond to people's letters, do not provide the required public documents, unduly delay administrative procedures and these people are no exception. It also happens that the Ombudsman does not receive answers within the deadlines provided for, so our interventions are often needed. Concerns are also heartwarming when the content of the letters received by our initiators is so complicated that it is rarely understood. For ordinary people, let me not be offended by the use of this term, the responses of various institutions are often too bureaucratic, unclear or even without appropriate justification. The second most frequent infringement relates to a violation of the basic provision of the Constitution that Slovenia is a legal and social state. We have found 30 violations in this area. That the principle of the social state is violated, we affirm when we find that human dignity is affected, when an individual or his family does not have the basic conditions to meet the basic needs and are placed in poverty. Among the most vulnerable are older people, so in 2018 we addressed the issue of the elderly in depth. We have sent conclusions to the Government, and we expect more decisive action to be taken to address the accumulated problems. The situation remains acute, so I am again calling on responsible public function holders to take action, but we will draw the Ombudsman's action even closer to the elderly and the disabled who face a variety of problems. Older or their relatives, for example, choose so-called family houses in neighbouring Croatia. We discussed the Ombudsman's initiative of a Slovenian citizen who was dissatisfied, so we also asked the Croatian ombudswoman for help. Last week she informed us that an inspection had been carried out which showed that the owner of this house did not have the appropriate licence and offered the services unlawfully, for which he was also informed. Let me also touch the infringements in the areas. Speaking of discrimination, it must be one of the visual and long-standing cases of human rights violations against students with disabilities in transport. Even after five years of the Ombudsman's recommendation has not yet been implemented, I am pleased that the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure has said on the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities that the new Law will solve this problem this year. For many years it has also been delayed by the legal obligation to adopt appropriate grounds for appropriate adjustment of the study process for students with disabilities, and we appeal again to all those responsible to approach this issue as soon as possible. In the field of disability, we are extremely proactive in the Ombudsman and, as a national human rights institution, we will also monitor, in accordance with the Paris Principles, the implementation of Article 33 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is also pleased that the disability protection initiatives have been less than in previous years. However, it is not appropriate and not fair that the compensation for disability and the allowance for aid and service has not been harmonised for many years, so I expect that the problem will be resolved as a matter of priority. I also expect state measures in the field of invalidity pensions. These are extremely low, and in the field, when we meet people with disabilities, stories are very tragic. In the area of health, we believed that the country with health reforms would provide accessible, quality and safe disease prevention, treatment and rehabilitation programmes, while reducing inequalities and ensuring affordable health care for all groups of the population, but the solutions from year to year are shifting. Although an important milestone was reached in February, an urgent pedophiliatric service was established. In the field of children's rights, the number of initiatives compared to 2017 is almost the same and the structure within the smaller areas has changed significantly. We can generally estimate that the rights of children in Slovenia are normatively quite well regulated. Legislation follows the requirement that children's rights as special vulnerable groups are particularly protected. After ratification 3. The Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the implementation of the Family Code shall be established in all areas on appropriate legal grounds to ensure that the benefits of the child as a fundamental guide in deciding the matters in which he or she is involved are also effectively established. I attended a meeting of the 29th Children's Parliament in April. I have assured the participants that their proposals and recommendations will also be included in their annual report to the Ombudsman and will require an appropriate response from the competent national authorities. In this way, their voice will also gain greater weight in addressing the general issues that concern them and complement the regime whereby children have the right to an advocate in individual legal cases. In the field of education or education, as already stated in the introduction, I underline the unfulfilled decision of the Constitutional Court to finance primary schools. The Ombudsman, as a national human rights institution, assesses that the introduction of the amendment of the law into the legislative procedure has taken steps towards the implementation of the Constitutional Court’s decision and is in the National Assembly to ensure the implementation of the constitutional decision in a manner that will not make the situation of children worse. I also draw attention to the failure of the Commission to implement decisions to direct children with special needs or to their clarity and inadequacy. In the area of justice and the longevity of judicial proceedings, the number of initiatives is declining due to the progress of the judiciary in reducing judicial backlogs. I'm very pleased to hear that. In recent years, however, the Ombudsman’s case is at the forefront of initiatives through fair and fair judicial proceedings and careful and critical supervision of judicial decisions. We have also been worried for years about the fact that the availability of legal protection for many is still difficult, despite the legally provided but difficult to access free legal aid. It is encouraging that the gaps in free legal aid also fill some Slovenian municipalities and NGOs, while lawyers, notaries, detective chambers and others provide free legal assistance in accordance with the bona principle. In the field of police procedures, in 2018, the same as in previous years, initiatives relate to all police operations. In the field of labour law, we dealt mainly with hidden employment relations, non-payment of wages and contributions, workplace violence, working hours and overtime payments, working conditions and could also be listed. The contents discussed in the field of environment and space show that we have not done enough in the area of ensuring a safe and healthy living environment. Let me conclude with some emphasis that our task as the Ombudsman is not to write laws, but to control their implementation. Together, we are in the service of men and the decision on marriage must become a categorical imperative. Moving away from people, shutting down offices and jobs is problematic. Some progress has been made, but there are still many steps ahead in the field of human rights protection in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Svetina. The report was considered by the Commission as a parent working body for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities and prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I therefore give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the Commission's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Guardian of Human Rights! At its 5th meeting, the Commission considered the 24th Regular Annual Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2018. At the beginning of the hearing, Mr Peter Svetina, the Ombudsman, received the floor. He said that human rights violations must be responded quickly and effectively. The annual report of the Ombudsman for 2018 contains 88 recommendations. The Ombudsman expects the Ministry and Government to respond to the findings of the report. The Ombudsman warns against irregularities, but others must eliminate them, so all three branches of the Ombudsman’s authority should take the recommendations seriously and respond accordingly. The Ombudsman points out that the Government and the legislator do not respond in time to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as ten decisions remain pending, which constitutes a serious breach of the rule of law. During all the years of operation, the Ombudsman has submitted 31 requests for a constitutional or legal assessment, but unfortunately some of the decisions of the Constitutional Court which have been issued in this regard have not yet received an epilogue. In 87 cases, the Ombudsman found violations of the principle of good governance. Some organs act too slowly. Unreasonably long things are being resolved, often exceeding all reasonable marriages. The authorities are still not responding to citizens' initiatives, letters and questions and are unduly delaying administrative procedures. The non-response of the authorities is also faced by the Ombudsman, who reiterated the warning that the State must provide staffing and material conditions for the effective functioning of the inspection services. In 30 cases, they found a violation of the constitutional principle that Slovenia is a legal and social state. The problem of the elderly was also addressed in depth. The Ombudsman mentioned a violation of the rights of disabled students in transport, which the Ombudsman has been alerting for several years. However, some facilities of public institutions are still not adapted to the disabled. For 16 years, the State has not established the type and degree of physical impairment which has been the basis for the enforcement of disability insurance rights. Alert is the relationship to the preparation of a long-term care law. Unregulated remain the situation in special welfare institutions, and health reform has not yet been adopted. The Ombudsman, as a national human rights institution, is currently under status B in the process of acquiring status A under the so-called Paris Principles and is expected to receive it in 2020. This will enable the Ombudsman to play a more active role within the framework of international human rights institutions and the impact on the design of their policies and will need sufficient financial resources. Finally, he added that they had become familiar with the government's response report. It is worrisome that the Government rejects the implementation of certain recommendations for non-conclusion. It is commendable, however, that the report has been prepared quickly, more critical for cities and that it is better to express the actual situation than it has been in recent years. The representative of the State Council said that they had taken note of the Ombudsman's report, which showed that the Ombudsman had successfully completed more than 2 000 600 cases in 2018. The representative of the Government thanked the Ombudsman for his report, which shows a clear picture of respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Since 2016, the Ministry of Justice has been designated as the coordinating body within the Government, which is responsible for the systematic approach to the consideration of human rights, and all ministries and government services have been invited in February to respond to individual recommendations. The Ombudsman’s recommendations are considered to be an excellent basis for finding systemic, organisational and financial solutions. Each infringement must be dealt with with at the same level of effort, regardless of how many people he is tanning, and regardless of possible media response. Representatives of the ministries then presented their views on the Ombudsman's report. The representative of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia then received the floor for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, who thanked the Ombudsman for another one-year report, which is an insight into the state of human rights. URSIKS accepts the report as an important reminder for further work, as a constructive criticism and also as a compliment for the work done. They will continue to work towards the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The representative of the Supreme Court thanked the Ombudsman for the recommendations concerning the judiciary and added that they were fully aligned with the priorities set by the judiciary in its documents. The representative of the State Attorney's Office said that the prosecution, as part of the judiciary, was interested in monitoring the Ombudsman's work and listening to his recommendation. The work of the prosecution is difficult and responsible, as it is often a matter of deciding the fate of people. He mentioned a recommendation concerning the speed of action of state prosecutors and is repeated. He added, however, that the quality and expertise of the prosecution's decisions should also be taken into account. The discussion followed with the members and members of the Commission and then a working paper was put to the vote, a draft proposal for a recommendation which was adopted unanimously by the members and members of the Commission. The National Assembly recommends that all institutions and officials at all levels take into account the reports of the Ombudsman in the 24th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government for the presentation of the opinion, Mr Gregor Strojin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear President, the Honourable Ombudsman, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Initially, I would like to thank the Ombudsman, Peter Svetina, for his presentation of the 2018 annual report, which is already the twenty-four regular annual report dealing with the situation of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. For the preparation of the report, I am particularly grateful to the former guardian of the Authority Nusdorfer. Both the individual ministries and the Government as a whole pay a lot of attention to the Ombudsman's annual report. This is also reflected in a comprehensive and systematic response to all the Ombudsman's recommendations, where the competent authorities represent the situation as well as their efforts and reservations. We have a lot of work to do, because ensuring respect for human rights is a permanent task that we must all work for and every day. Of the 88 recommendations in the annual report, 83 relate to the work of ministries and other government departments. These recommendations, however, relate not only to infringements or shortcomings but to the continuing task of the Authority. On almost 300 pages, the government has prepared a comprehensive response report explaining the state of implementation and just assessing the implementation of individual recommendations. All recommendations were carefully reviewed and concrete responses prepared. On 29 April, the Government adopted a joint response report, which consists of three relatively separate reports, on the implementation of the recommendations at the time of its consideration of the 23rd Annual Report 2017. Response report from the Government to the Ombudsman's 24th Annual Report and the Ombudsman's Response Report to the Ombudsman's Report on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism for 2018. Given the short time during the publication of the Ombudsman's report and the preparation of the government's response report, it is understandable that all the recommendations have not been implemented, but in the Government and the ministries we see the Ombudsman's recommendations as some kind of compass, which reminds us in our regular work that we are not paying enough attention to vulnerable groups as well as individual segments of our operations. On the basis of this compass, there is an awareness in the country and society that the recommendations show the desired direction of action and the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Dialogue has often proved to be key in finding appropriate solutions, as the recommendations often refer to complex, inter-ministerial issues where there are no simple, uniform solutions or solutions to always difficult issues of financial and real resources. I believe that this constructive and frank dialogue will continue in the future as we all have the same objective: to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in Slovenia. In recent years, the government has worked very well with the Ombudsman to address the violations identified or to implement recommendations, as well as at the systemic level of legislative upgrades. This will, inter alia, enable the Ombudsman to obtain status A under the Paris Principles on the status of State institutions for human rights in 1993. We also want good cooperation in the future. In its current report for 2018, the Ombudsman made the highest recommendations in the area of restrictions on personal freedom – 14, equality before the law and prohibition of discrimination – 10, in the area of justice also – 10, and in the field of various administrative matters – 8. In this introductory presentation, it is understandable that I cannot address each individual recommendation. All are important and need their attention, but I would like to highlight some activities from the Ministry of Justice, which are following the objective of a fair and effective justice system. Among other things, we have taken an active approach to addressing the problem of lack of judicial officers. In February, URSIKS launched a 54 job vacancy invitation – a judicial officer candidate. One of the key measures to address the human resources deficit is the move to move soldiers after 45 years of law enforcement. However, there is still a need for professional colleagues, which will also need to be addressed in the future. Let me also highlight activities in the field of reducing prison overcrowding. The general objective of investment projects for the new construction of men's prisons in Dobroňa and women's Igo is to reduce overcrowding, improve the conditions for the functioning of prisons, by establishing a system that will be safe, humane and inclusive for both the society and the staff. The important work in this direction is also carried out last year by the establishment of the Probation Authority. It creates a lower burden on prisons. Last year, at the start of operation, the management took over 488 cases. At the end of 2018, they already had 2 thousand 126. The Ministry of Justice continues to pay particular attention to the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. This is also welcomed in the report by the Ombudsman. At this point, statistics showing that Slovenia had 302 outstanding judgments at the end of 2014, and in 2015 309, at the end of 2018, Slovenia had only 13 outstanding judgments, 11 of which were final. These figures point to Slovenia's noticeable progress, which is also recognised by the Committee of Ministers in its reports. Recommendation 62 of the Ombudsman to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that, taking care of the uniform case law of all courts, it continue to encourage improvements in the functioning and quality of the trial. However, the Ministry of Justice recommends that it continue to provide for the strengthening of the functioning of the judiciary for the effective and quality implementation of the judiciary. At the opening of the Court of Justice of 2018, the Supreme Court highlighted a project to improve the quality of the trial, where the objectives are set in order to ensure, in the light of the principles of procedural justice, the competent conduct of judicial proceedings and even better quality judicial decisions, which will be explained in a language which is also understandable to the wrong-doers. In order to pursue this objective, the Court's Business Organisation Supervisory Service, which operates within the Ministry, will continue to carry out the supervision of the judiciary. As an additional explanation to the remaining recommendations of the Ombudsman, I would like to mention a further amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act (N), which we are waiting for formal confirmation by the European Commission that we have fully transposed the Victims Directive into our legal order, with which the situation of victims has improved significantly. This year, however, the Law on Unfair Procedure was also adopted. This is a key procedural law that will allow in practice the reform of family law, which was drawn up in early 2017 with the adoption of the Family Code. I would also like to point out that, when I reviewed the Ombudsman’s recommendations and the responses of government officials to them, I have been asked several times whether and how important the human rights of others are, or whether human rights will still be understood in the future, as important when we face current or potential challenges. Inequality, social justice or injustice, nationalism, hate speech, migration are contemporary challenges that cannot be avoided both in Slovenia and in Europe and globally. The challenges are linked in very complex ways, and they are constantly striking at the issue of values and respect for human rights. When human rights collide with other values that are also important to people, for example, security or material well-being, we can often see too often the restraint to respect the rights of others. It is also worrying that in society it seems increasingly acceptable to restrict a number of political and civil rights and, in this respect, the Ombudsman's recommendations, criticisms and comments are even more important. Again as a kind of compass, which shows that a proactive response is needed to contain or restore the already achieved level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Let me conclude by stating that the care for respect for human rights has been important in leading the Government's work, which is convinced that we must not only refer to the existence and competence of the rule of law, but that the rule of law must be exercised primarily in the field of the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms. As a result, the public authorities are constantly striving for continuous awareness and training in the field of human rights. We must also be aware that not everything is bad in Slovenia. Various comparative studies and indicators, such as the quality of life indicator or the safety indicator, place Slovenia in high places. This, of course, is no reason not to seek an even higher quality of life, including respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country. However, we can only be successful through cooperation and joint action, and the Government will continue to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Mojca Žnidarič gets the word on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear Guardian, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! With our work and our relationships, every day we co-create a piece of history. All our actions are good when they are directed towards progress, search and guarantee not only rights, but also the obligations of every citizen of our country, whether it is a child, an old man, a representative of a minority, a foreigner, a political official or anyone else. Nothing is self-evident, especially when it comes to what belongs to us. History teaches us that some are, today, self-evident, rights as a result of denials, strong will, courage and also struggle. Once an electoral right of women, today the right to free decision on the birth of children and the choice of a life partner, tomorrow the right to dignity and peace. Respect for these important human rights and fundamental freedoms is thus the foundation of every democratic state. Their importance is known in the basic acts of the State. The responsibility for respect for human rights is also demonstrated by the Ombudsman's Institute. And the responsibility for their realization is in our hands. Today, we will re-examine the state of protection and respect for human rights in our country when considering the 24th regular annual report and the first new guardian of Mr Sveto. The outcome is likely to be similar to those of previous years. In addition to the many criticisms and shortcomings often justified, some progress will also be recognised in protecting the rights of our citizens and citizens, so we need to pay attention to all 88 recommendations made this year by the Ombudsman to the authorities. They all have the same weight, drawing a general picture of which areas of rights and freedoms are most burdensome for people. In fact, each time we consider the Ombudsman’s annual report as a society, we set up a mirror for ourselves, so it is right to recognize where we are lagging behind and to boast where we see progress. Unfortunately, there is no way this year to avoid the fact that we need to focus more attention on the ethics of the public word. On the one hand, the international institutions have been warning us for years that we are ineffective in sanctioning hostile speech, and we are facing violence that we are unable to respond to in a clear and effective manner. Because freedom of expression is perceived by some to be without limits. But that is certainly far from the truth. It is the duty of the State to regulate and, where necessary, sanction or punish hate speech and to use all levers and powers to halt dangerous processes in which the policy of intimidation, physical or verbal violence or where all is permitted. How many more cases do we need to finally understand that words do not kill directly, but they can quickly plunge into violence, brutal attacks, even attempted murder. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the ministries, as well as other authorities and law enforcement authorities, will have to think seriously about the necessary legislative changes in this area in the future. Freedom of expression is certainly one of the most important democratic gains, but it is protected only to the limits of the protection of the rights of others. The Ombudsman has already been granted a special place under the Constitution in the system of protection of the rights and freedoms of our citizens and citizens, and therefore, with all seriousness and entitlement, he is also entitled to initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality of laws or acts, if he considers that they are inadmissible infringing on human rights or fundamental freedoms. In this report, which was prepared under the auspices of the former Ombudsman, we are faced with a case where the Ombudsman finds very broad and reasoned that the Law on Partnership in Work relating to the arrangement that partners cannot adopt a child together is constitutionally controversial. The Ombudsman therefore takes a very direct view of the potential unconstitutionality, but in the same breath, he proposes to amend the legislation and does not take advantage of the possibility of making an own assessment of the constitutionality of such an arrangement. This slightly reminds us of responsibilities and in the SMC Group we expect from the current Ombudsman a little more courage to address the broader issues that are important for the protection of rights and fundamental freedoms and for the legal security of our citizens, even though they are in the minority. In the SMC Group, we will recommend a recommendation that the National Assembly recommends to all institutions and officials at all levels to take into account the recommendations of the Ombudsman, also in the spirit of continuing to strive for a modern, free and secure Slovenia, which, while guaranteeing the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms for everyone, allows them to create a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear guardian, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! This year we also carefully examined the report of the Ombudsman, all 23 chapters. We note that in 2018 the Ombudsman dealt with 229 cases more than a year before, which means a 5.5% increase. The Ombudsman's report gives an in-depth view of the poor functioning of the state authorities. The findings are tangible and require not only reflection, but also action. Over the years, as a red thread, the failure of state authorities and the poor implementation of the Ombudsman’s recommendations are repeated. In its 2018 report, the Ombudsman made 88 recommendations and highlighted the responsibilities of the legislative branch of government, which should monitor their enforcement in addition to the adoption of legal solutions. As Members and Members of this Assembly, we should be more aware of these as well as of others. But not just in the National Assembly. Over the years, we have also witnessed the failure of any government to give due attention to the Ombudsman's report. Governments have so far ignored recommendations more or less. As in the previous mandate, the Left will represent a party that respects and defends human rights in a consistent manner without exception and without hesitation. Human rights are universal, indivisible, and do not know the hierarchy. I would not like to update what is written on almost 450 pages of the report, but I will point out just a few of the most important points. The problem of blessing public schools, kindergartens, municipalities remains unresolved. The Ombudsman has been warning her for many years and is clear in his reports — blessing and accompanying religious rituals violate Articles 7 and 42 of the Constitution. They also violate Article 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The situation must be regulated in a manner consistent with the Constitution and the law. This time, the report states that the Ombudsman, I quote, was “participation of negative criticisms from the legacies of the Levica Group”. And that's true. The Ombudsman states that it is unacceptable for Levi to adopt a legal provision allowing religious activity in public schools if there is no penalty for violating the prohibition of confessional activities in public schools. The Ombudsman even suggests to the members of the National Assembly that, under Article 88 of the Constitution, they themselves should submit a proposal to remove the prohibition of organised religious rituals in public schools and schools or their express permission. We underline in Levica that this recommendation is controversial. We take it as a reference to allowing this in public schools, and we wonder if it is a matter of leading to unconstitutionality. Of course, we will insist on the requirement that appropriate sanctions be imposed in the ZOFVI for the violation of Article 72. We advocate a strict principle of separation between the Church and the State, lazi public education and secularism, as it is a matter of defence of general interest. This chapter also includes the question of the participation of the State Summit in worship and religious rituals. The protocol participation of the political summit in the mosques for the homeland, for example, means that the highest political officials representing the country do not respect the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the religious communities. The former guardian also attended the Mass for the homeland, which she wrote in the 2017 Annual Report. The Left is also mentioned in the section on freedom of expression, as it has already pointed out in its consideration of the Ombudsman's 2017 report that the hate speech has been spreading unrelentingly and has pointed to the Ombudsman's overresistance towards a sharper condemnation of the enemy speech. Our warnings about the burning problem of hate speech, false news, the promotion of intolerance, hatred and violence remain equally strong. As the central figure in the field of human rights, the Ombudsman must set an example and do everything and more to defend democratic values. We also regret that violations of the rights of persons with disabilities always remain a sensitive problem in all areas of life, from architectural accessibility to the exercise of the right to vote for persons with disabilities. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ratified Slovenia in 2008. This, however, provides for the full access of persons with disabilities to political participation and the realization of rights in all spheres of work and life. We have repeatedly raised the issue of the legal recognition of sex in Levika. This issue is also perceived by the Ombudsman, who points out the non-necessary condition of a health certificate on gender change for the recognition of sex. We are pleased to see the Ombudsman, while the ministries are giving themselves a hook, see the Ministry of the Interior as the one responsible for leading the task of drafting a law on the legal recognition of sex. It is worrisome that the Ombudsman also this time deals with matters of freedom of expression, intolerance to refugees, sex, sexual orientation, religious affiliation and so on. In the last six reports, the Ombudsman recommended that Members and Members and politicians should at all adopt an ethical code and establish a verdict that would respond to hate speech in politics. We agree with him that a self-regulatory mechanism is needed for the ethics of public words in every political action. Too little is said about the harmfulness of hate speech, too little is said about the harmfulness of xenophobia, racism, homophobia and other hostile discourses. Under the cover of freedom of expression, it is growing in public space, and policy with silence and passivity gives a silent landing. Any attempt at hate speech should be decisive, harsh, and publicly condemned. The political class is obliged and called upon to take responsibility and set an example. We agree with the Ombudsman on the warning that the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia does not overcome effective protection with regard to the prohibition of the promotion of intolerance, hatred and violence provided for in Article 63 of the Constitution, nor in the field of media, in the field of social networks. The prohibition on the promotion of inequality and intolerance under Article 8 of the Media Law does not contain sanctions, nor does Article 10 of the Law on protection against discrimination. The Ombudsman again describes the difficulties of the Roma community in exercising human rights and special rights and repeats warnings: municipal and legal irregularities of Roma settlements, access to drinking water and sanitation, access to electricity, the right of children to education, access to school transport for Roma children. The right to drinking water shall be exercised by Article 15 of the Constitution directly under the Constitution. However, the State is responsible for the protection of constitutional rights in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In Levika we note the urgent need for the Government to ensure access to drinking water for all residents, as well as to eliminate discrimination against Roma children in education. We support the Ombudsman's calls to state authorities to define themselves up to the requirements for recognition of the Serbian, Croatian and German national communities, also in the light of the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages. And go ahead. The Ombudsman advocates regulating the situation in social security institutions, in particular in protected departments when it comes to non-voluntary accommodation and detention. We believe that the Ombudsman's findings and calls require immediate action. Particular attention should be paid to foreigners, asylum seekers and unaccompanied refugee children. As the Ombudsman writes, the pilot project is the installation of unaccompanied minors in Novi Gorica and the Permanent example of good practice. In the report, however, we miss the perception of the danger that refugees, especially women and children, face in the refugee crisis as potential victims of trafficking in human beings. In the environment, the Ombudsman detects fewer initiatives than a year earlier. The right to a healthy living environment is also guaranteed by the Constitution in its 72nd Article and is also guaranteed by the State. Infringement in this area is in practice, hand to heart, in abundance. In Levica we are particularly reminded of the problem of the production of glyphosate in Rača in the chemical factory Albaugh. It would be good for the Ombudsman to define himself for alarming environmental matters, such as the production of carcinogenic herbicide, which is one of the most dangerous ceilings at all. It is also a superficial chapter on culture. Even where there are few initiatives, let the guardian show his own initiative. In particular, the position of self-employed cultural and artistic artists is very attractive. The vast majority of these are entangled in penetrating forms of employment without basic social security. It exposes it to a higher risk of social vulnerability and poverty. And culturers in the trap of social inequality and poverty are far from alone and alone. In the area of domestic violence, the Ombudsman reports that there are fewer applications than in previous years, but police report an increase in reports of family violence or child abuse. The most cruel acts of which children are victims are sexual abuse, bodily injury, murder, domestic violence, and neglect. The responsibility of the whole society is child protection, prevention of abuse. This should also be an alarm for all authorities and organisations in the country operating in the field of child rights protection. It's over. It seems important to us that the Ombudsman should not only address the initiatives that have come but monitor the current situation and broader issues of human rights protection and the legal security of citizens. Even where there are no narrower powers, he can set the example and influence of his moral figure. The Left Group will support the Ombudsman's 2018 report and we expect the Government to take it into account immediately. We expect the Ombudsman to take our warnings and comments with the utmost seriousness as guidelines for future work. Dear Guardian, good luck with that! Colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Blaž Pavlin, the position of the NSI Group, will be presented next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Respectable Ombudsman, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The annual report of the Ombudsman for 2018 shall contain 88 recommendations. It should not be an honor for us to point out more or less the same emphasis each year. In particular, the Ombudsman expects the Ministry and Government to respond to the findings of the report. The Ombudsman and members of the opposition can only point to irregularities and must be corrected by others. All three branches of the Authority should take the Ombudsman's recommendations seriously and respond accordingly. As the Ombudsman points out, the Government and the legislator do not respond in time to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as ten decisions of the Constitutional Court remain unexecuted, which constitutes a grave violation of the rule of law. Long-term legal proceedings remain a major problem, particularly in insolvency proceedings and in compensation procedures for damages suffered by the initiators in previous trials due to a slow trial. It also draws attention to the inadequate regulation of the area of free legal aid, as the law does not provide greater access to free legal aid. The Ombudsman also draws attention to some open minds, such as the unresolved question of blind and visually impaired children regarding the denial of the right to receive two supplements. The competent ministry points out, however, that it also takes into account other groups with similar problems when preparing the legal basis. This issue has also been addressed by the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. We have adopted some conclusions which have not yet been implemented by the Ministry. There is still a major problem in deciding on complaints against the decisions of social work centres as first-degree bodies. The complainants will therefore have to wait at least 2 and a half years for a decision against the grant decisions submitted in 2016. The two-year backlog is also in relation to the decision on complaints against decisions on the child's allowance and subsidies for reduced payment of the kindergarten. Complaints against decisions on the exemption of payment of social security services shall be resolved six months after receipt and two and a half years are required to resolve complaints against the right of a family assistant, and about four years are required to appeal against the rental subsidy decision. Likewise, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has not implemented the recommendation that their information system should also be unified with the reorganisation of social work centres. In particular, the Ombudsman notes that it has been shown that the reorganization of CSDs has not been planned in due time, in particular in the light of the level of burdens in the last time period and has therefore failed in December 2018. The number of healthcare and health insurance initiatives has increased dramatically in 2018 with regard to the previous year, according to the Ombudsman, in particular the response to the proposed amendments to the law on communicable diseases. Once again, the Ombudsman highlights the poor response of the Ministry of Health, which is very late in responding to the Ombudsman's inquiries, as well as that he has difficulty in communicating with the parties, as they are waiting for answers for 10 months. The Ombudsman considers that waiting periods are not only a result of inadequate funding but rather of poor organisation of work. In Novi Slovenija, too, we are appalled at the finding that in Slovenia, in the digital age and the growth of information on all business processes, we do not know how to count patients waiting for health care and because of the unacceptable long waiting period people are also dying. The waiting period should never be so long as to make the patient's medical condition worse during waiting. We stress all the time that merely increasing the flow of money into health will not solve the problem of waiting periods. Major systemic changes are also necessary in the organisation, not just funding. In the field of the environment, the Ombudsman found in particular violations of the right to a healthy living environment, the principle of justice, legality and the rule of law, good governance, equality before the law and equal protection of rights. It highlights in particular the non-responsibility of the institutions, both municipalities, Arsa and the Ministry of the Environment and the space in cooperation with the Ombudsman. A number of emergency rooms are needed, answers and explanations were not substantively complete. The Ministry of the Environment and Space often excluded the public from the process of adopting legislation or included it too late in the design of the solutions. The Ombudsman also points out that the right to clean drinking water must be transposed into the Constitution. The 18-month period expired on 17 May 2018. Today we are discussing the 24th Regular Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2018, prepared by the former Ombudsman Vlasta Nussdorfer and presented to the National Assembly by the new Ombudsman Peter Svetina, for which we thank him. It is expected to continue its work in all areas. In New Slovenia, we want to focus more attention on the real problems, including those that interfere with changes in the foundations of our society, and I am thinking mainly about the rights of children with whom we have begun to manipulate and treat them as the rights of adults. We expect the Ombudsman to draw attention to the importance of maintaining the family as the basic cells of a healthy society.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u14	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the well-respected Guardian! Human rights and fundamental freedoms have evolved throughout history from the pursuits of equality and mutual respect in ancient cultures to the philosophical debates on natural rights to the first legal instruments that have granted people rights similar to human rights. The largest milestone in development is the general declaration of human rights, which was created in 1948 as a result of the horrors of World War II. Thus, human rights and fundamental freedoms are now enshrined in the highest legal acts of the countries, including the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This gives human rights and fundamental freedoms a special chapter. Article 159 of the Constitution also defines the Ombudsman, who was established with the Human Rights Ombudsman Act in 1993. Today, the 24th regular annual report is before us of the Department of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia. The material received from the National Assembly is also well prepared and transparent this time and represents a key analysis of the situation of human rights in our country. Representatives of ministries and other institutions, as each year, ensured that they took the report seriously. They also said that progress has been made in a number of areas, which is certainly true. Even though some praise and recommendations have been recorded in the report, some violations and unheard warnings still stand out. In 2018, a total of 377 human rights violations were detected in as many as 45 bodies. All this data shows us a clear picture of the state of respect for human rights. It is also worrying that the Ombudsman made 88 recommendations in 2018, 11 more than a year after that. At the Ministry of Labour, things haven't moved for years. This year, too, the Ombudsman points out that the greatest violations of human rights and irregularities have been identified in this area. At a meeting of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, the Ombudsman again highlighted problems in the field of disability protection, in particular the irregular transport of disabled students. There is also still a need to re-establish disability insurance in particular with regard to the type-detection procedures and the degree of physical impairment. In the area of health care, which is currently quite critical, according to the Ombudsman, there is no increase in complaints at the expense of waiting periods. The Ombudsman notes in this regard that it is not only the result of inadequate funding, but also of poor organisation of work. The Ombudsman recommends that the Ministry prepare an integrated analysis of the causes of waiting periods. The annual reports of the guardians from year to year also repeat warnings related to the implementation of the rule of law and the social state. The Ombudsman thus reiterates its call for measures to improve the quality of judicial decisions. Only in this way will we be able to strengthen confidence in the rule of law. I have highlighted only some of the highlights of the report and these highlights show that there is still much work to be done in the area of human rights protection. All of us here with the Government at the helm have an obligation to draw up legislation that will eliminate violations of rights. We must be aware that by not acting in a manner that violates human rights, we are silent and unwittingly supporting. Passive means an intervention in the fundamental interests of an individual and a further violation of human rights; therefore, we, you, all, must be unrelentingly alerted to the violations and situations that lead to them. The state must fully fulfil its responsibility when it comes to awareness and protection of human rights. I hope and wish that the next Ombudsman's report will be even shorter, and the debate will be about the steps we have taken to improve the quality of people's lives. In the SAB Group we will support the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Guardian, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome to all! In the Desus Group, we have decided today to present a common position for both guardians' 2018 reports, i.e. for the 24th annual report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia and the Report on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment. If I start with the 24th annual report on the Ombudsman's work for 2018, let me first express my disappointment that, as shown in the report, the situation in the field of human rights does not improve as we all wish. This time, too, the report is no less extensive than the reports of the past years. Last year, the Ombudsman received 4,000 700 cases and found 377 violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as in 45 bodies. It is worrying that the most violations have been detected in bodies belonging to the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. The authorities that belong to this ministry should, in our view, have the most hearing for people and their problems, but, as we see from the number of violations, this is not the case. The Ombudsman made 88 recommendations to various national authorities last year and, of course, rightly expects them to be implemented as soon as possible. Unfortunately, on the basis of previous years' experience and the government's response to this year's recommendations in the Desus Group, we fear that a few recommendations will also not be taken into account and implemented this time. We must therefore agree here with the State Council's assessment that there are still too many officials in the employees' bodies who are not prepared to take individual responsibilities for their decisions and inaction. The authorities still do not respond to initiatives, letters, questions from citizens and unduly delay administrative procedures. They act slowly, resolve things unwisely for a long time, often exceeding all reasonable marriages. According to the Desus Group, the number of violations of the constitutional principle that Slovenia is a legal and social state is also alarming. Despite becoming the main theme of all political parties, the problem of the elderly is certainly not improving. For the elderly still have the power to recognize, in particular, the problems of poverty. The situation remains unregulated in social security institutions. There is no increase in the number of single beds in pension homes. There are no new homes and no special social security institutions. Supply prices in institutions are rising, which means that less access to social security services is being addressed, which is of particular concern to us in the Desus Group. The issue of the protection of disabled persons is also far from being addressed, regardless of the repeated warnings given by the guardian. In addition to other problems faced by people with disabilities, such as poor access to medical devices and the like, we are increasingly hearing warnings of difficulties in the transport of disabled persons who still cannot access public transport unhindered. This means that the public transport system in the near future will need to be fully regulated for the disabled, even though we like to boast that we are already a friendly country for the disabled. We still do not have a specific type and degree of physical impairment which is the basis for the enforcement of disability insurance rights. It has been waiting for more than 16 years for this determination. There are repeated warnings of violations in judicial and police proceedings, warnings of violations of human rights due to hostile comments in the online media, because the individual who is attacked is virtually unable to reach justice and warnings of the irregularity of the housing situation in Roma settlements and so on. In order for everything not to be so negative, I also need to point out some positive things. A great deal of progress has been made in the area of the Child Protection Institute. The delays in resolving complaints at the Ministry, which mainly relate to the exercise of rights from public funds, are being eliminated. It has taken an intensive approach to solving the situation of blind and visually impaired children and has begun with the preparation of the law. This year, a protected department for intensive psychiatric treatment of children and adolescents began to operate within the University Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana. Judicial backlogs are shrinking and detailed. That's what they say. It's not so bad. Let me touch further on the Ombudsman's second report: Reports on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that in 2018 the Ombudsman did not find torture or other cruel punishment or conduct in all 81 places he visited and where he found himself deprived of his liberty. However, the Ombudsman continues to point out the over-occupation of social security institutions, which result in inadequate housing conditions, the treatment of persons employed in them and the excessive burden on staff. The situation in this area has not improved in 2018 and remains worrying. The Ombudsman's social security agencies, with their recommendations, are encouraged to regulate departments intended exclusively for persons with dementia diagnosis. Similarly, homes for the elderly in providing fire safety should give greater emphasis to persons with dementia. With regard to the recommendations concerning psychiatric hospitals, it is encouraging to note the same problems each year, and unfortunately no progress is visible once in a while. We are therefore pleased to have the Ministry of Health assured that, through the representatives of the founders, they will propose that the final report on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism be considered at the meetings of the Councils of Institutions, thereby helping the Ministry to remove obstacles to the implementation of its recommendations. Finally, I would like to express the opinion of the Desus Group that the Ombudsman's reports from year to year are better prepared and the Ombudsman's visibility in public is increasing. Members of the Desus Group will support both proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u18	Nice hello to you all! Well, another annual report of the Ombudsman is before us. Even in this report, we don't see what should be written. In fact, it's a series of debates, visits and reflections on things, but I don't see anything in here to say that the Ombudsman or this institute has helped our people. There's a whole series of things that don't make sense. In chapter 2.15 on justice, I see nowhere that in essence there is a finding that it is by name and by name, but not by law and by what someone has done. If a person is right, he will certainly not be condemned or forgiven or condemned at a minimum. If someone's writing wrong, he'll get his head all over what he didn't do. And I don't see any reflection on this report. It's very bad. If we go to the environment and space. There are burnings when every now and then a company burns down where hazardous waste is stored. The easiest thing to do is to smoke it all up in smoke and into fire and not have to drive it away and have costs. And I don't see a guardian or someone from this institution ever turning to people living in the area who are then under the influence of dangerous toxic substances in the air that fall to the ground and then the pollution of the land. Children's rights talk about violence against children in the family. But I don't have a sub-section anywhere on violence against children by the state. In the requirements of the European Union, the Slovenian State has succumbed to the tendency to push LGBT groups forward and push them into schools and kindergartens, and has also published books for children of nine years of age, how to behave and how to learn lesbian and gay variants. Isn't that violence against our children? This is violence against our children, carried out by a country where, as some say, up to 60% of homosexuals are in top positions. It's a strange thing, then, that our guardian, who wrote this report, didn't deal with it. I hope that the new Ombudsman will see this matter differently. We would all like a healthy population, a normal population, not a confused, decadent one, as Europe wants to make us. Let's take a look east. Let's look at the multinational group, look at Hungary, look at Russia, where healthy young people grow. With us now in certain colleges, which have even special, specific status, toilets for men and women are abolished, are no longer spoken in the way that is in accordance with the rules of the Slovenian language on male form, but are now all women's forms. So I will now appoint our Lord Jewish as Mrs Juden, because it seems to be more appropriate and in line with these trends. Or maybe Miss Jew or what I know. We've come so far. Here, we read some flues and some statistics, etc. What's bothering me? I'm upset with segregation. The Ombudsman, the institution, is segregating the Gypsies. The fact is, there is talk of a Roma community everywhere. What about the other two communities? The Sint community and the Kale tribe community. These are three tribes of gypsies, all of which belong together in the gypsy corps, but only the Roma community is being considered. This is about the apparent segregation. And don't tell me you can't talk to gypsies. That's just as you can say there are Comanches in the world, and the Apaches, and the Sujis, but you can't say they're Indians. That is how far we go in this Slovenia, which has become one knave of foolish starting points, foolish demands, that nominates only to what Europe gives, which is the most stupid thing that can happen. Otherwise, it's no wonder it's all like this. Finally, when we talk about Roma communities, we also forget about other national communities. We no longer see nationality or nationality in the statistical census. I don't know why he's hiding it. This is a violation of human rights, such as members of the Serbian nationality, members of the Croatian nationality, who have the right to sign in or refuse entry of the nationality. The Slovenian National Party also proposed to enter the mother tongue. Of course, the Slovenian government rejects that. Why? Here we have to ask ourselves where human rights are being violated and where human rights are being protected. With us, we only see protection of human rights in migrants. All migrants are allowed. They can afford what they want, and I haven't seen a human rights guard get skinned by a variety of NGOs that promote and participate in crime-related illegal border crossings. No, it's not. Guaranteeing migrants that they are in closed rooms to have little movement around are stupid. If we go after Ljubljana, go for a walk in Ljubljana, you'll find them for the evening as much as you want. They walk around Ljubljana here and there and are already harassing young girls. That's not a fiction. Even though our parents say that's not true. That's right! And there are going to be pigs like they do in Sweden, in Germany, in France, which our media cannot report because this is not in line with European orientation. But what's going on? Of course, police officers need to be tightened up and punished. Instead of giving them more authority, the police must not touch the migrant. And there have been attacks on police officers with knives, bites, sticks, and I don't know what else. The officer who defended himself was then processed by the Slovenian authorities. What country are we?Oh, my God! What country are we?Oh, my God! Fertilizer! In 1991, some of us took up arms, few of us, very few of us, not as much as they are now boasting that it is, I don't know, over 65,000 veterans. Maybe 40 pushed us to the rooster. I pressed the rooster. And the vast majority of the others were hiding. Everybody's brave today. But let me tell you, we didn't fight for it at the time, for the kind of crap we have today! We fought for something completely different. And if something like this ever happened again, be sure that a lot of people would never pick up a gun for this country that has nothing left. We have a country left, and our country is also receiving such annual reports from the Ombudsman, who eventually spends about €160,000 at the monthly level. For what? Because there are 40 people working there watching how bad it is for migrants, how bad it is for Gypsies. What about our people? What about our people?Oh, my God! Was there ever a delegation in Kozyanski? Were they somewhere in Prlecia, some village where they don't have electricity, or water, or where people live from day to day? No! No! You have to go to gypsy settlements and write after how bad they feel. However, the fact that the Gypsies are increasingly moving from Romania, that they have no documents, is irrelevant. It is not important that they commit criminal acts and that police officers should not seize them but sanction them. However, if they come to court, some of them have 60, 70 crimes and not a single crime has been punished. Ha, one wonders if we're even a country. I think we've come to the level of a tribal community, and this is a bad tribal community. If we had to do something, we should do what we did not do in 1992 — establish the provinces. There should be five Slovenian provinces. Four historical: Koroška, Primorska, Styria and Kranjska and Pomurska. In this way, we would also avoid the fear that does not know what history is and the yoke and fear what Hungarians will say about the re-opening of Triano. But no, that's not what we're gonna do. We're not doing this. We'll deal with all the possible goats and the serious violence of the police against migrants. Aha?Oh, my God! Take a look at what migrants do across Europe. Instead of writing the annual report of the Ombudsman, how many Slovenian people have you protected from the violence of migrants, that is not what it says. There's nothing in here that says how many destroyed weekends, how many destroyed houses there were, where migrants settled, what pigs did there, what they did. None of this says anything. This doesn't seem to be in Slovenia. They're just bad Slovenians and terrible Slovenian cops. It's sad that it's all over. The guardian was involved in unannounced visits to police stations. Yes, is that the priority of the Ombudsman? She certainly did not go there because of Slovenian prisoners or those who detained them. No, I'm sure you don't. She walked for two segments. One segment is Gypsies, the other segment is migrants. Why? Not to figure out the actual situation, but to help these poor people. I don't know what to say. We will not support this report. I'm sure you don't! Because this is a beautifully designed book, an interesting design approach, but the content is sad. It's a sad content. I would expect it to be written about where our people were helped. We don't have much in here except for the declaratory matters. Of course, it is widely written about international cooperation, for which I ask myself – what international cooperation? Let's take care of ourselves. Let us look at the examples in those lands where he cares for his own people. Let's see how he takes care of his own citizens in Hungary. And of course everyone spits in Hungary that there are no human rights, but Hungarians care for their citizens. We don't care about our citizens. We have some kind of soul-career who would be nice if we ever took our gentle ass somewhere in Slovenia and saw it happen there, but that probably won't happen. They will praise all those who work Slovenia as a country of damage and essentially devour further development to the Slovenian national body. Once again, we're not going to support this, because in fact, it doesn't seem to be worth anything. I think this book will be mostly the best if someone has a broken leg in the closet to put this book down.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. I would warn you, however, if you discuss when the debate is open, that you are using a little more respectful rhetoric. We're moving on. Mr Felice Žiža will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u20	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respectable Ombudsman, Mr Peter Svetina! Egregia vice presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie, Egregi deputates, egregio tuture civico signore Peter Svetina! Tistel Hölgyim és Uraim! In the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities, we are aware of the importance and role of the Ombudsman through the mechanism he is using, i.e. the mechanism of control over the implementation of the constitutional situation and the special rights acquired by the national communities of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in practice. The former Ombudsman, Ms Nussdorfer, managed to crush quite a few hard nuts in her mandate. It has introduced systemic action and proactive action in the field of national communities, for which I sincerely thank our Group. If we go to the 2018 report, we would like to highlight only two cases. The first relates to an undertaking which has obtained a concession from an economic public service and has operated in an area where the Hungarian national community lives. Unfortunately, this company was almost exclusively operating in the Slovenian language. The second case concerns justice. Otherwise, there is a gap between the constitutional situation and the rights of national communities and the exercise in practice. In the area of justice, too, it has decreased slightly in recent years, but remains relatively broad. It was because of the rationalisation of the work itself, when they introduced rapid executions online, that they also sent envelopes, invitations and forms to the home all in Slovenian only, with significant non-compliance with the provisions governing the use of Italian and Hungarian languages in national mixed areas. Here we expect a serious approach from the Ministry of Justice and other competent judicial authorities to resolve these problems as soon as possible, actively and positively, and not only the problems mentioned, because there are other problems at the level of protection of the rights of indigenous national communities. I would like to draw your attention to what has been going on for years now, that national authorities have moved several national authorities, their units, of course, from areas where national communities live in the last few years. Organisational units remaining in the national mixed area are becoming less and less active in the language of the national communities. So the problems are, remain, you have to keep trying and work. For this reason, we would like to continue to work actively with the Ombudsman to continue work on the protection of the rights of indigenous national communities on a systematic and proactive basis, as well as Mr Svetina. For the work he has done so far, we sincerely thank him. The delegation of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities will support the Ombudsman's report for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mrs Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you once again for your word, honourable Members! Dear Ombudsman, Mr. Peter Svetina! We therefore have before us the 24th Regular Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2018, which accurately summarises the problems of citizens and individual groups to whom human rights have been violated. Since, for many years as a member of the National Assembly, and also as President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I am likely to be closer to monitoring the area of human rights and, in this context, also the functioning of the guardians, I can say that we have so far had guardians who have chosen different areas of treatment for the red thread of their activities. Some have put more effort into, say, Roma issues, deleted, others have given children rights, in particular the strengthening of advocacy, some for the elderly — too low pensions, violence against the elderly, and the necessity of enacting a law on long - term care. All of them together until the current Ombudsman were united that virtually none of them had served article 9 of the Law on the Ombudsman in order to act on their own initiative. This means that the Ombudsman can initiate proceedings on his own initiative when he detects a violation of human rights. I believe there are new times with the new guardian. The Ombudsman must also be in fact the voice of the powerless, that is, those which may otherwise not be heard in any institution. Must be the voice of the despised, the weakest. Those who cannot do it alone in the fight against the institutions for the correction of injustices, those who need our help. So the voice of those who trust him to be righteous in their conduct is not in any way partial. Today, it has been repeatedly said here that the Ombudsman certainly has special authority, special power; and, of course, he must be very careful about his decisions. However, he also made a commitment to all of us, namely to citizens and citizens, when he swore before the National Assembly that he would pay close attention to human rights violations, which is particularly important for countries that have young democracy and previous experience with a system in which human rights and fundamental freedoms have been gravely violated. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have a clear legal framework for the protection of human rights: the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which assesses whether human rights have been violated or not, the Ombudsman, who performs his work within the framework of the powers he has, as well as the parliamentary supervision of the protection of human rights exercised on the Human Rights Commission. However, we have too many problems in implementation, i.e. in practice, which is also pointed out by the last report of the Ombudsman, where criticism of the focus is particularly on the executive branch of the Authority, which, according to the Ombudsman, does not do enough to address violations and implement recommendations and does not respect the agreed deadlines; the Ombudsman has already explained this in the introduction, which is the most visible in the event of the elimination of injustices to the blind and the visually impaired, as I will say in the following. In 2018, the Ombudsman addressed more than 3,000 initiatives, if we are talking only about initiatives. Most of them are closed, some of them are still in the rescue. As at the hearing of last year's report, I must also point out that there is still quite a large percentage of such roles, where the process actually proves that human rights have been violated. Some violations from year to year are also referred to by the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities; however, I must say that nothing changes completely. Also, the fact that some of the Ombudsman’s recommendations are repeatedly repeated because the Government does not take them seriously enough and responsiblely is unacceptable. Thus, despite the Ombudsman's warnings, we still have some facilities in public institutions that are not adapted to the disabled. Nor has legislation to regulate the rights of disabled students in an integrated manner been adopted. The Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has many roles to play in the area of social affairs, including the role of disability. In particular, we are reminded that the standard of living of persons with disabilities is declining, that they often live below the poverty threshold and that they want legislation so that their situation will improve, not worsen, as they warn in their roles. The Ombudsman reiterates that an appropriate health reform has not yet been adopted, and we are also talking about this in this National Assembly that solutions that resolve the health system are carried out from year to year. Here is my assessment that everything this government is doing in this area is the exchange of health ministers as per the current lane. First, these ministers become aware of the health system situation, and when the health system needs to be resolved and improved, the new minister begins to become aware of the situation in the healthcare system. Thus we have a vicious circle that saves nothing, but only prolongs the agony, in which the greatest consequences are suffered by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The report states that the number of healthcare initiatives in 2018 has increased dramatically compared to previous years. We also see this on the committee I run, as we have recently received a lot of applications, especially due to too long waiting periods. That is why we have already convened a petition commission meeting, where we have analysed in more detail the situation in which all those who have been waiting inhumanely long to be examined by a specialist. Today, in this country, even because ministers change as they do through the current lane, instead of doing their job, about 250,000 people are still waiting to be helped. Even though they're paying into the health department, which is why I hope it's clear that they've paid for a quick medical treatment and help, and no one's given them one. And these people have been violated human rights to health care. The Ombudsman also recalls the so-called failure to accept responsibility for health errors. What I'm talking about here is heart surgery. The Ombudsman also points out that there is still a lack of awareness among patients of their rights that they can exercise and of the possible procedures available to them. The proportion of well-founded initiatives in this area is small, demonstrating that individuals do not take full advantage of all possible ways of exercising their rights before they appeal to the Ombudsman or apply to the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the longevity of procedures concerning the enforcement of health insurance rights, which has been pointed out for a long time by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. I must also point out that there is a significant problem with the absence of family doctors. I have repeatedly pointed to this through the questions sent and also in the debates. Doctors themselves warn that this is why they are overloaded, and in some ways their highest possible quality of work is hampered. Health-care roles have also increased due to the mass response to the proposed amendments to the Illuminated Diseases Act, which is clearly recorded by the Ombudsman in the 2018 annual report. Let me point out here that I also convened a meeting of the Commission on the basis of this legislation at the time, because it seemed right for me to have the opportunity to clarify my views on the amendments to the law to everyone concerned by the law; and because the mother's working body did not carry out a broader discussion since the law was tabled after a reduced procedure. I must also say that on the Commission we are constantly giving the opportunity to hear those individuals who are otherwise unable to express their views or to explain the problems they are facing. We are the only parliamentary body in Parliament that keeps communicating with the citizens we are trying to help, but of course within our powers. Here I should point out that many times people have the wrong idea, even with the Ombudsman, and they think, for example, that we have the power and authority to intervene, say, in the decisions of the courts. Of course, we can explain to them that this is an independent branch of government and that we cannot influence their decisions; but we can ask why such procedures are so long and too long. The Ombudsman points out that the proceedings before the courts are too long. We are also reminded of this by the European Court of Human Rights, which says that the right to a trial within a reasonable time is one of the key human rights. And if this is broken, it is not only in a legal sense, but also in purely normal human logic that many other human rights are consequently violated. However, people who seek justice in courts lose confidence in the justice system and can experience real agony for years and years. The Ombudsman also reiterates that there is not enough to ensure a safe and healthy living environment, that the field of soil pollution needs to be regulated, that the Ministry of Environment and Space has to draw up regulations to regulate the area of smell discharges into the environment; at the same time, such conditions must be provided where inspection procedures are more effective. This is recalled from year to year, regardless of which Ombudsman is then appointed. The Ombudsman also reiterates — again, that is to say — that an adequate number of staff in prison institutions is not yet sufficiently ensured. I myself, as President of the Commission, face various issues related to prison issues. In recent times, several applications related to the Women's Ig Prison have come to the Commission. The Ombudsman also repeatedly warns that human and spatial conditions should be improved in the installation of vulnerable prisoners, including persons with mental disabilities. It also points out that the recommendations made by the National Assembly at the hearing of the Ombudsman's Special Report on Human Rights Violations of Persons with Mental Impairment in Their Involuntary Accommodations and Treatment in the Protected Departments of Social Security Institutions have not yet been implemented, although some things are improving here. The Ombudsman also reiterates that decision-making at the Ministry is still not guaranteed at the second stage of the deadlines and that the parties therefore temporarily lose their rights as a result of long-term decision-making. That there is still no comprehensive strategy for protecting older people from violence, not to talk about the law on long-term care. The Ombudsman also points out that there is still no legal basis to ensure compensation for the damage caused by the wrong position regarding the possibility of co-application of the child allowance and the allowance for assistance and service. Here, let me explain that on Friday, 14 June, the four-month period has expired when, by a unanimous decision of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we agreed that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, by regulating the relevant legislation, will correct the injustices of the blind and the visually impaired due to the misinterpretation of the law. For the first time, I met the parents of blind and visually impaired children on 20 December 2018 when they protested before the National Assembly. Nobody heard them then, and I decided to accept them and talk to them. The parents presented the situation in which they found themselves due to the mistake of social work centres and ministries. The Court also ruled in 2012 that the error had been made. On 14 February 2019, an urgent meeting of the Commission on Human Rights was convened, at which the following conclusions were unanimously adopted to suspend all procedures of enforcement against parents immediately in the said case and to immediately or no later than four months, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, by appropriate legislation, rectify the wrongs caused. At that time, the Minister and the Secretary of State said that the legislation would be adopted within the time limit agreed upon; today we can see that this is not the case. Nevertheless, I do hope, Madam Secretary of State, that today the Minister is not with us, that the appropriate legal basis for the correction of these injustices will be ready as soon as possible and that other people with similar problems will be able to correct their injustices further. Here I must point out that similar injustices also happen to children with special needs who are lagging behind in physical and mental development. It is right that our commission has warned of injustice and that this has also opened up other issues which the Ministry of Labour must resolve as soon as possible. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the problem of the elderly, in particular to low pensions, which do not provide a decent life. The Commission is also repeatedly reminded of the inadmissibility of low pensions and the need for changes in the pension system. We have repeatedly proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the pension system, raising the minimum pension for old and disabled pensioners. Each time you rejected the proposal and always argued that it was a non-systemic solution. We have proposed to raise the dose percentage and this has also been a non-systemic solution for you, so you have rejected the proposal. We suggested that the period of retirement should also be taken into account. You rejected this with the same argument that it was a non-systemic solution. We have proposed eliminating discrimination against farmers’ insurers — rejection, non-systemic solution. We have proposed a higher annual allowance for pensioners, even this was a non-systemic solution for you, so you refused to do so. And since your argument is why you still reject such a good proposal for citizens for reasons of non-systemicity, I have seriously begun to wonder what a systemic solution you are talking about actually means for you, which you are talking about very much. What does a systemic solution mean to you? And I have come to the conclusion that the systemic solution for you is to save the system, not to improve the situation of citizens. There are many violations of human rights that the Ombudsman draws attention to in the annual report. We cannot expose everyone in this position, but I would like to mention the increasingly pressing problem of burnout in the workplace, as well as the problem of mobile phones in the workplace, which we receive several petitions on this subject, which people, although it is a crime, often do not want to report because they are afraid of the consequences, especially the loss of their jobs. So there is a lot of pressure on individuals. However, the task of all of us is, in particular, to see, hear and recognize those who are working in the field of human rights, and to begin to solve them in the end. In the debate, together with fellow Members of Parliament, we will also draw attention to the other human rights violations that are contained in the Ombudsman's report. However, we will certainly support the Ombudsman's report for 2018 and also all the recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Guardian, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The annual report of the Ombudsman reminds us all the time that, despite the progress made by our society, there are still anomalies in certain areas that start with fundamental human rights and freedoms. When reading the 2018 report, we can see that many irregularities and human rights violations have been the same or the same for many years. With 2018, the Ombudsman added 88 new recommendations to the existing recommendations. The recommendations relate to different areas: equality before the law, social security, employment, children's and disabled people's rights and so on. Although the competent national authorities, including the Government and the National Assembly, are trying to implement most of these recommendations, some of them are still just letters on paper. Representatives of the legislative body must work hard to address human rights violations if this is due to lack of legislative regulation. However, it is not an enormous problem in the lack or poor regulatory regulation of individual social areas; often the problem is that the law is well written and implementation is poor. As an example, we can take too long a decision on certain social transfers, where the law governing the administrative procedure makes it very clear how long it should be decided on a particular application, and these deadlines are often extended unreasonablely. Let us recall the cases where students waited for answers to the complaint of the grant decision for more than a year. A scholarship that allows enough material resources to study, and even survival for some, does not work if we get it more than a year too late. In these cases, it is not an inadequate law, but rather a poor organization of work, or malnutrition, of the personnel involved in dealing with such roles. However, the undernutrition of staff due to the lack of financial resources cannot be a valid reason for the lack of respect for human rights. Respect for the latter certainly costs, but as a society we must decide what our priorities are. And in the Group of Members of the Letters of Marjan Šarc, we give high priority to respect for human rights. Human rights are universal and are obtained by birth and belong to all, regardless of race, sex, national or ethnic origin, language, religion or any other personal circumstances. It is crucial that we do not distinguish between different categories of violations of human rights, but address everything properly and sufficiently. The Ombudsman is concerned that public authorities and institutions act in accordance with respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms, and therefore its recommendations need to be taken very seriously, beyond party divisions and day-to-day political divisiveness. Each coalition contract should contain key movements in areas where the Ombudsman finds human rights violations. We are responsible for a consistent examination of the Ombudsman's allegations to citizens and citizens, and for a sustained effort to ensure that these recommendations are also implemented. The very challenging challenge to be addressed is certainly respect for and implementation of constitutional decisions, as the Ombudsman also points out. It is a requirement to respect the principle of the division of power and the principle of the rule of law. The National Assembly must make every effort to implement the requirements of the Constitutional Court, even if I do not agree with it. It is not enough merely to assert that we will take and respect a single decision of the Constitutional Court; a legislative response is needed within the appropriate time frame. If that is not the case, it is indeed a matter of non-compliance with constitutional decisions. Human rights violations must be responded quickly and effectively, but it must be stressed that key developments are also taking place in this area. Member States shall endeavour to adopt appropriate changes in the area of financing of schools, electoral legislation and so on. We support the proposal for a recommendation to the report of the Ombudsman and the proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Report on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Treatment for 2018. Finally, in addition to all that has been said, we reiterate the thought that in the future it would be reasonable to consider extending the powers vested in the Slovenian Ombudsman or even establishing several special guardians for particular areas, as provided for in Article 159(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. As the last position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Guardian, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Since the last annual report of the Ombudsman in the National Assembly, it has only been a good half a year, but this short period has been a time of great change. The Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, who prepared the 2018 report and handed it over to the President of the National Assembly on 20 February 2019, expired the mandate. On 24 February 2019, Mr Peter Svetina stepped into the shoes of the first human rights defender in the Republic of Slovenia, who has received the highest support as a candidate for the Ombudsman in the National Assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that 89 votes in favour of Members and Members of the new Ombudsman were not only support for Mr Svetina as an excellent candidate; we explain our support as an awareness of all political options on the importance of respect for and protection of human rights as a constitutional category and of the extremely important role played by the Institute of Human Rights. The number of individual initiatives that the Ombudsman receives annually is also an indicator of the confidence of people in the Ombudsman's mission and his actual independence from state institutions. The annual reports of the Ombudsman are, in this way, always welcome a real cross between our country's progress in the realization of human rights, unfortunately sometimes also a stalemate or some unloving step backwards. In the debate on the Commission on Human Rights and other interested working bodies, representatives of government departments, MEPs and Members, as well as civil society, are gathered at the joint table. And that is why the Ombudsman's report and the debate on it is a rare opportunity when human rights are considered in practice indivisible, interrelated and interdependent. As a whole, we are truly responsible for the realization of which all stakeholders in the country and at personal level, with respect for the human rights of all of us. The scope of the report, which has not decreased over the years, based on the increasing number of cases dealt with, in 2018, more than 248 more than a year ago, is not to be interpreted as an inflation of human rights, but as proof of the practical applicability of the concepts that were internationally based after World War II. Human rights, by their universal and general nature, cover all key social dilemmas and at the same time the partial personal circumstances of individuals and individuals. All violations of human rights and the principles of good governance are important, and it is particularly important to approach addressing systemic irregularities that have the gravest impact on the rights of the wider range of people. We have also read carefully the 24th annual report of the Ombudsman on a regular basis. Unfortunately, when we read the report, we have mostly come across known warnings, which we have been following for years in the Ombudsman's annual reports. Unfortunately, there is no way to be proud of the continuity of the country. The fact is that there are still many such recommendations when they remain partially or completely unrealised over a period of several governments. And the current government is so prioritized in dealing with urgent health reforms that would ensure equal and effective health care for all people without unacceptable waiting types. Particularly problematic are the segments of the health system, such as mental health. For a long time, we have all been united that the elderly are one of the most vulnerable groups of the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion. With the trend of ageing societies, we urgently need solutions in the area of long-term care. In doing so, I would like to emphasise, within this item of the agenda, the satisfaction of our Group that, in carrying out the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the Ombudsman has also not identified any cases of torture or other punishment or treatment in 2018. It should be borne in mind, however, that problems such as overcrowding of special welfare institutions or non-implementation of recommendations relating to psychiatric hospitals pose a risk to the emergence of inhuman and degrading behaviour. The Ombudsman is also rightly critical of the delay in drafting legislation to protect the right to drinking water, which we have written down in the Constitution ourselves. Procrastination with legal solutions is a lack of respect for our legal order and gives the impression that drinking water is no longer flowing than paper. Social Democrats also take very seriously the criticism of the failure to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We are aware of the urgency of their implementation, but also of the political reality in which laws are adopted. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, led by Dr. Jernej Pikala, has taken the floor and has prepared an important proposal for the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which, on the one hand, eliminates the constitutionality found in the existing law on the financing of private primary schools; at the same time protects the network of public schools through which the Republic of Slovenia primarily guarantees the right to education for all compulsory children. We hope that, as we proceed with the procedure, there will also be enough will for constructive cooperation to confirm the amendment, to satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision and finally implement the long-standing recommendation of the Ombudsman. I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues for the report prepared and, therefore, for every good debate, for the debate on the current state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. We will, of course, unanimously support the proposal for a recommendation to all institutions and officials at all levels to take into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the annual report of the Ombudsman for 2018; and the proposed recommendation to all competent national and other authorities to take all necessary measures to implement the recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A discussion is under way on the report and on the proposal for a recommendation. Jani Prednik has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u28	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Guardian, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! The fact is, this report refers to 2018, which means that it also applies to the former guardian. This report is quite thick, indicating that we have problems in this country that we need to start solving and, of course, solve them definitively. When I read this report, I ran into a lot of problems, but I was surprised by one thing, namely that I did not notice anything in this report or, I am lying, almost nothing about the rare diseases that my guardian and I have already discussed. All that is written in this report about rare diseases is, notice, 11. 9. 2018 in Križanka, Ljubljana, the former guardian attended a charity concert, the purchase of which was intended for the sick boy William Julian and other children with severe rare diseases. This is all that is written about rare diseases in this report. When Mr Fakin was still Minister, I asked him as Minister about these rare diseases; and, of course, he said non-chalantly that we need more money. My assessment is that we are not some poor country, we are some Central European country with money. Children with rare diseases exist, not many of them, but the fact is they are. These are children who suffer from various rare diseases; and as a result, their parents suffer not only psychologically, especially financially, because they have to be financially in charge of solving problems with the treatment of these children. As a matter of fact, the Ombudsman and I have already begun a debate on this, including with Minister Šabedr. At the top of the coalition that took place last week, I highlighted this issue, and Minister Šabeder promised with the team that he would take these issues and start solving them, he had a very different approach to what Minister Fakin had, which, of course, pleased me. Here I see a representative of the Ministry of Health, I hope that the Ministry will keep its word and deal with this matter. Earlier, in the presentation of one party’s position, it was said that the guardian did not walk on the ground or go to the ground only to the Roma. The guard's been on the ground since 1995. The current guardian was 9. 5. Even in Koroška, and we have no miracles in Koroška Roma, the Ombudsman was in Koroška, where he also took note of the problem of CUDV Black, this is the Centre for Training, Work and Protection of Montenegro in Koroška, or at one of the protection work centres in Muta, where the Ombudsman could also see how catastrophic conditions are in this institution. The inspection service of the Ministry of Labour also instructed the centre to rebuild the premises, especially this central building in Montenegro, Koroška. Here I ask, I see the Secretary of State to provide the Centre with financial resources in the budget 2020-2021 and that this central building is also organised with the other units. This institution deals with persons with mental impairment. These people also belong to those vulnerable groups. I hope that the ministry will approach to solve this, I see that the Ombudsman is familiar with the problem; and here I ask the Ministry and also the Ombudsman for help, that we will also solve this problem in some dialogue and, of course, with financial means. I thank the Ombudsman because I think he has taken a very proactive approach to solving problems; I believe that such an approach will solve a number of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next one will receive the word of Joseph Horvath, followed by Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! A very good introduction to this fat book, apparently this report is a bigger, larger one every year. A very good thought, summed up by the Ombudsman or the former Gandy nanny, who says in the last sentence: “If you want to see a change in the world, you must be the one to change.” I understand that with the word “you” Gandhi here points to all of us 90, we are the “you” that must be changed; we are not. We had previously heard very correctly from a colleague that this continuity of the country cannot be proud, somehow so she said. Yes, indeed, this continuity of the state cannot be proud. When are we gonna change? Will we just go to the 25th report and so on? We must be the change. But I hope to say that these amendments will not, unfortunately, be or will be very minimal until the 25th report. I thank the Ombudsman, Peter Svetina, and his presentation team, and I want to, because we have not been changed so far, or we have not been changed enough to take advantage of the legislative, legal possibility of taking the initiative for change. Interestingly, by accident or intention, 88 recommended, for each of us, let us draw lots; and every carrier of one of these recommendations will be, and our fellow Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities will help us all. Let's do it! Let's draw. And everyone has to commit to getting rid of this recommendation within one year or as far as possible. Because otherwise it's all out of touch, out of connection. If we do otherwise, we are not people with integrity, because a man with integrity, which every Member should be, is the man who speaks what he thinks and does what he says. It is therefore necessary to move from words to actions. Ladies and gentlemen, in five days we will be celebrating our country's national day. On 25 June 1991, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted, among other things, a fundamental constitutional charter in this House, which makes it very clear in its preamble that the peoples, expressed on the plebiscite of 23 December 1990, do not act as a legally-managed State and are severely violating human rights. This was our previous country, and it was a serious violation of human rights. This was one of the reasons why Slovenia and Slovenians gained independence. Whether we have been freed is another question, perhaps for another meeting of the National Assembly. I welcome these annual reports, which in some ways have mirrored all of us in the 1990s, of course also to the government. And I'm really repeating for a colleague myself, this continuity of inaction cannot be a proud country. More than ten decisions of the Constitutional Court remain unrealised. It is true, and now we are only trying to realize one after four and a half years. Is this the normal response time of the legislative branch of power? I guess we'll all agree it's not. Last May was the year when, in view of the change in the Constitution, we had to write down the right to drinking water in the new 70a; and we were only joking. We were just kidding. What right to drinking water? So that the then government would take pictures here and we would vote. The Constitutional Law sets an 18-month deadline. The Constitutional Law was published in the Official Journal on 30 November 2016. 18 months ago, as it was said, it was a good year and nothing happened because we were only joking about this right. I asked Dr. Marble’s then Minister of Finance: “Dr. Marble, do you have the financial resources foreseen in the budget because this right also costs? I was there when we launched and launched the biggest cohesion project at the time, this is the water supply Pomurja. Today, June 20, 2019, some households in Gorička do not yet have drinking water, perhaps elsewhere. Of course, the Constitution is not an implementing act, but we have therefore stated in the Constitutional Law that within 18 months we will adapt the relevant legislation in accordance with Article 70a. And we're not, because with this right to drinking water, we brag about it on an international stage, but we're just kidding. What is this attitude towards citizens and citizens of this country? Come on, social work centers. Indeed, the reorganisation of social work centres took place in the previous term. We opposed this because we did not believe that this could be a good solution for citizens and citizens, especially those who need social work centres. It is now evident that we were right; a lot of time and a lot of will is going to have to do these social work centers and serve people because they are set up for people. We've got here today, I'll say, directly, pompous. I know the best things in the pomura area, but I'm sure similar things happen somewhere else. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the Ombudsman. Most articles of the Constitution deal specifically with human rights and our constitution is a good constitution. Of course, Slovenia, as a member of the international community in 1992, became members of the United Nations, we became members of the European Union in 2004 and so on; and we actually ratified here many conventions, international human rights treaties. Given the current nature of the topic that we started yesterday, allow me to also mention some general declarations on human rights, conventions. Nevertheless, I will start with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 41, freedom of conscience: “Parents have the right to provide religious and moral education in accordance with their beliefs.” And paragraph 54, the rights and duties of parents: "Parents have the right and duty to maintain, educate and raise their children." Next, General Declaration of Human Rights, 1948, 26th, 2nd point: “Education must be geared towards the full development of human personality and the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.” 3rd point: “Parents have the right to choose the type of education of their children.” The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe, Article 9, freedom of opinion, conscience and faith: "Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion." Next, the Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, Article 2, the right to education: “No one shall be deprived of the right to education. In carrying out functions relating to education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to provide such education and education to their children, in accordance with their own religious and philosophical beliefs.” In all of these statements, normally, I hope everyone asks, "Is this working for us?" Of course it's working. Next, the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, 18th paragraph, 4th paragraph: “The States Parties to this Covenant undertake to respect the right of parents or legal guardians to ensure to their children the religious and moral education which is in accordance with their own beliefs.” Next, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, UN, 1966, paragraph 13, paragraph 3: "The States Parties to this Covenant shall accept the obligation to respect the right of parents or legal guardians to choose for their children such schools as have not been established by public authorities if these schools comply with such minimum standards of education as established or prescribed by the State and the right of parents to provide religious and moral education to their children in accordance with their own beliefs." The European Social Charter, part 1 of the Charter, paragraph 7: “Children and adolescents have the right to special protection against the physical and moral risks to them.” And Declaration on the Rights of the Child, Principle 2: "The child must enjoy special protection. By law or other means, it must be allowed to develop physically, mentally, morally, religiously, and socially healthy and normal in freedom and dignity. In the laws adopted to protect the child, the child’s benefit should be directed principally.” And Principle 7: “The child has the right to education, which should be free and compulsory at least at the primary school level.” I'm just gonna ask here if it's really free. “It is important that the education that will develop its overall cultural level and enable it to develop, on the basis of equal opportunities, its abilities and capacity for its own assessment, moral and social responsibility, so that it can become a useful member of human society. The child’s benefits should be directed to those responsible for his or her upbringing and education; parents must take the lead. We need to provide the child with a game and entertainment whose purpose is also raised. Society and public authorities should strive to ensure that children can enjoy these rights as much as possible.” And the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN, 1989: “taking into account the importance of traditions and cultural values of individual nations”, this importance of tradition and cultural values is particularly highlighted in the preamble. [[…]] [[…]] Article 13 says: "The child has the right to freedom of expression; this right covers the free search, acceptance and dissemination of all kinds of information and ideas, regardless of borders, in oral, written, printed or artistic form, or in any other way by choice of the child. As regards the exercise of this right, certain restrictions may be imposed, but only those which are prescribed by law and which are necessary to respect the rights and reputation of others; or to ensure public safety or public order or public health or morals.” Article 14: "The States Parties shall respect the child's right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. States Parties shall respect the rights and obligations of parents or legal guardians to direct the child in the exercise of this right in a manner adapted to its development capabilities.” A very broad set – but I certainly did not mention everything – of international conventions, declarations that he has also accepted, ratified or otherwise internalised the National Assembly or, earlier, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the situation in the Slovenian health system is concerned, we also face problems that we simply do not know, whether we can't, or whether it's not political enough, but I don't think there is any knowledge that we can solve them for the benefit of our patients, patients, citizens and citizens, who are very valuable. The Ombudsman has been warning us about this for some time, warns the opposition, warns the European Commission, which is also our institution, but nothing or not happens. It's not enough, we don't even know how to count waiting in the waiting rooms, or we're wrong about 20,000. It's not a normal system. We probably all know what a waiting period means too long, what the definition of a waiting period is. The patient can only wait for a medical service for so long that his condition does not deteriorate significantly during this time. When I spoke to the previous minister – Minister, people are dying in waiting lines – she told me to be dramatic. And I know it's because I have experience, I know it is. But on the other hand, we have the right to choose a doctor freely. Really? Oh, come on. It is even easier to get to a doctor in Switzerland or Berlin than at home. This is especially true of people on the periphery. You'll say he mentions Pomurje again. Yes, I have to mention it again because we, the patients in Pomura – and probably in Koroška too, will tell you yourselves, colleagues and colleagues, where – the rulebook adopted by the Ministry of Health and entered into force on 1 November last year. What right to choose a doctor, don't joke. It doesn't work because if you're from Prekmur in some condition, let's say you're immobile and you need an emergency procedure or whatever, you want to go to Ljubljana; it won't work. And you're not going to UKC Ljubljana because you're from Prekmur, you're going to Maribor. But if you want to be treated in the Oncology Department in Ljubljana, it's not a one-time treatment, it's more transportation, and then you'll pay. Okay. The one with the high wages can pay, okay? What about those who have 220 euros in invalidity pensions or peasant pensions or any kind of pension? Can he pay for a week's transportation, it's called emergency medical transportation? He can't. And then in a local newspaper, I read that the cancer patient, the patient, decided that there would be no more medicine. Yeah, we're a rich country, but this is happening to us. I didn't make that up. Ask the reporter who wrote about it if she's sick. Do you know what it means to have no more medicine at the Oncology Institute in Ljubljana? Colleagues and colleagues, we must not allow this to happen, even if it only happens to one of them, it must not happen to him. We need to adjust the system. We need to fix it. If there is enough political will here, we can change the law in one day, correct it, improve it for the benefit of people, in one day, if there is enough political will. I hope that I will experience the 25th report, that it will recommend significantly less, that there will be a great deal of praise for the Government, the National Assembly, that at least a good percentage of these 88 recommendations have been rectified or taken into account; and I really want to see this happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I would like to give the floor to Secretary of State Martini Vuk, who has asked for it. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected Ombudsman, Member of Parliament and Members, a nice greeting also on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Some of the recommendations are related to our work area, and I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity in the debate relatively early, because unfortunately I have to attend a meeting of the Commission of the State Council dealing with three of our laws at 12 o'clock, and then I will be replaced by a colleague. Let me start by quoting Article 5 of the Basic School Act. Article 5 is the Right to choose forms of education and says: “Parents have the right to choose primary education of their children in public or private school or as a home education.” Article 5 of the Basic School Act. This is a response to all references to international, domestic documents. We do not change the primary school law; we do not open this article in any way; we do not restrict in any way the rights of parents guaranteed by our legislation and by foreign documents ratified as the Republic of Slovenia. This accessibility, this choice for parents, is fully and assured. Let me say that, from this point of view, I myself have led quite a few delegations when we have advocated international pacts and documents and their implementation before the United Nations. We have not received such recommendations nor have we been delayed in any way to violate the right of parents to choose. Yesterday was quite a long debate, and you all probably remember it, so I would not make it worse, I just want to say that the Government has adopted the Proposal for a Amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, submitted it for consideration to the National Assembly in accordance with what we have promised. Yesterday, the first debate was held, next week a meeting of the parent committee will be held, at the July session – if today the law is voted to be suitable for further consideration – the second and third hearings will be held and with 1. 9. The law may apply. This is how we implement the Constitutional Court's decision, which has not been implemented since 2014, but we will probably all remember that many attempts have been made to implement it, but it is necessary to gather an appropriate majority in the National Council in order for the law to be adopted, to be enforced and that the Constitutional Court's decision could be implemented. Let me tell you another good news, namely that a regulation has been drawn up that regulates students' rights more comprehensively with special needs and special status, i.e. the rights of students with disabilities who are subject to recommendations, not only in the last but also in the past years. This regulation is now being prepared, it has been put on the e-democracy in public debate since this week, where we collect comments and opinions; and it will then be adopted and published in the Official Journal and will be applied and implemented. We believe that we have taken a very important step forward. When, as you yourself have said, transport of disabled students is still being arranged, and the Ministry of Infrastructure has also agreed to do so, then this area will be substantially better regulated than it has been so far. And last but not least, because you can see that there are many of us and we are limited in time when it comes to the area of educational institutions, to which the recommendations also apply, the law will go into public debate this summer, we will put it into parliamentary procedure in the autumn, and we predict that by the end of the year, the law will also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. If any of the government's representatives want a word, they can sign up at any time and get a word. We continue the debate. The word is given by Ambassador Janja Sluga, and Željko Cigler is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today, this field is very wide for discussion, as we now listen to our colleagues and colleagues about what they are talking about. On the inside, within the content dealt with by the Ombudsman, it is possible to talk about many things. But in fact, if we are to look strictly at the agenda item, we should talk about the work of the Ombudsman and about matters that the Ombudsman has dealt with a little bit more concentrated in the framework of the Ombudsman’s powers and responsibilities. And I don't think it's right that we're taking advantage of this point for everything that's already been pre-debated at other points, at other sessions and so on. Today it has already been said, in fact this report is more comprehensive each year. But just as a colleague pointed out the case earlier, of course, this does not mean that the problems are so much more because this report is more extensive. We find a lot of things in this report. As I have already pointed out on the committee, one case can be described on ten pages, not on the pages. However, as we speak, we have certainly taken steps, and some progress has been made in certain areas. However, we all probably want the executive branch and the legislative branch of power to be implemented, we need to divest ourselves here with the ashes, respond faster and better. If I go to some content that I have already pointed out on the committee, but I would have rushed to them, because these are the contents that have really left me in my memory. It seems right for us to talk about them, in particular in the light of the debates that are taking place on ageing society, on regulating long-term care, on all the problems that we are alerted to every day in caring for the elderly through the media and through various stories. I've already highlighted a story on the board that I was very concerned about. It is for older people's homes when we talk about cases where, for reasons of high prices or perhaps for other reasons, they decide to put their elderly in Croatian homes. What is the level of care in these Croatian homes, I think it would be possible to talk very much. Often these elderly ones return within a few months or at least wish, as we have heard in one case, to return home; then it turns out how inadequately they have been taken care of in the meantime. But I'm talking about one particular case where an old man like that wanted to come back, and it was even prevented by taking his personal documents. That's an extreme case. I was particularly concerned after the Ombudsman had already offered the Committee an answer that there had not been a response from the Croatian ombudsman until this report was discussed on the competent or interested working body. Such a relationship is indeed something that we must be concerned about, especially because we cannot cut our own legislation in such cases. To think more in the direction of a really urgent need to regulate this area than we have been talking for 17 years, but in fact it is very clear here how the water flows into our throats and into us. The following matter, which has already been mentioned several times today, was also clarified by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Education at this time. I'm glad this rule is adopted, I'm talking about disabled transport students. In this regard, I have also addressed the initiative in recent months to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is, of course, the Ministry responsible for amending the Road Transport Act, which must be adapted to ensure that students with disabilities are granted this right. I have received an encouraging response as the ministry in the proposal to amend this law has taken growing steps precisely to ensure that the case is adopted, that as few participants as possible will be involved in the coordination and that the procedure will proceed as quickly as possible; with the promise in this letter that this law is to be held at tables somewhere in April. We are now the end of June. Unfortunately, this law is not yet in place. I don't know where it's stuck. The Ombudsman also did not have an answer to that question at the time we discussed it, but I am really appealing again at this point. The response to my initiative, which I have received, has been exhilarating and I appeal that what was written in there is actually happening as quickly as possible because it is a real big problem. We have discussed, on a general basis, the various issues addressed by the Labour Committee, the human resources inspection, its strengthening and its powers. This is one of the areas where some progress has been made; in the past mandate, five new inspectors have been employed; in this mandate, 10 already. Of course, for my concepts, as I personally perceive this issue, the initial steps that need to be followed, but this area is one of those areas where we can say that moves are going better. I would have rushed to the Ministry of Justice for a moment, with the problem that the Ombudsman had kindly warned about, that is the accessibility of the courts for the disabled. Why am I talking about this? I speak because it is the Ministry of Justice that is supposed to be the guardian of human rights in all areas; then it turns out that this ministry in its field, in its core area – that is, the basic thing, such as the accessibility of premises, the room for motion-obstructed – does not guarantee. On 15 of these courts, disabled persons have no access to the hearing halls. Then these statistics are turned around a little bit, and then we're talking about how in some way we can come up with some sort of explanation that 77% of the courts are accessible to the disabled, but still. In my view, we should react more appropriately and more quickly to the law adopted by the State and put it into action in 2010. It is true that she has given herself fifteen years of time as a transitional period, but nine of these 15 years have passed and progress in this area is too slow, too small in my opinion. I believe that the courts serve the solution to use other premises, to put the debate halls on the ground and so on, but I do not think this solution is worthy of the disabled. And another thing about the guardian's own way or any other organ. If we talk about how I imagine, how I work myself, when citizens and citizens address me – of course, to respond to the problem with the greatest possible measure, to solve the problem, to offer a hand and to contribute to the finalisation of an appropriate answer or solution for a citizen or a citizen. And in this light, I also imagine the operation of the Ombudsman and all the other institutions in the country. That is why I have also appealed to the committee, and again I appeal that it is not acceptable for the Ombudsman to advertise a citizen with a problem, the Ombudsman treats him, asks him for information and so on, and then is below the line, after a few weeks or months of treatment, the answer that a person receives: We will include you in our report. Why am I saying this? Since it was not just one case of people who came to my office with such a response from the Ombudsman; of course, this refers to the Ombudsman's past mandate. I really want to, and I recommend a new composition that you don't do this anymore. Citizens expect an appropriate response, they expect some result of this reaction, but they cannot be able to read about themselves in a report. That is why I would like to reiterate the Partnership Act, which is very extensive, on several sides, contained in this report for last year. The adoption process itself has been very detailed, what has happened, what has happened, what has happened, how the contents have been, how the amendments have been tabled, how many votes have been put in favour and how much against. Then there is the recommendation at the end that Members should be encouraged to change this anti-constitutional law. The Ombudsman has this power, the Ombudsman can take this initiative. And I really urge that, in the future, such an initiative, when it manifests the unconstitutionality of certain legislation, it launches and exploits such an initiative. As regards the presence of the Ombudsman on the ground, I must point out this, however, because one position of the Group of Members was very much directed against this part of the Ombudsman's operation. I can't agree with that position. I keep an eye on how the guardian travels through the field, where he sounds, how he sounds. I also get responses from people on the ground from the Ombudsman, and this is certainly something that works very well at the Ombudsman's Institute. It is right that, to this extent or even greater, if it turns out to be possible, it will continue to be so. I wouldn't be so negative. One of his colleagues said he expected more praise in his next report. I am not blind, I am not expecting these praises, nor is the guardian established to praise; the guardian was established to point to other things with his finger. But actually there are movements, but of course we all want us and you, on the other hand, to be more effective in our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." But get ready to be a magician. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u36	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Dear Guardian of Human Rights! When you took the floor and presented yourself to the parliamentary groups, we have seen in you in fact one possibility for this national assembly to also, with your help, defend the exercise and prevention of violations of human rights and freedoms, in particular political, economic and social. It was important that a colleague who was leaving earlier in her debate, who said that it was important in the law when it was supplemented, in particular the point which encouraged you, that you would be active in this exercise, to start procedures on your own initiative in areas where you are identified or pointed out by citizens and citizens, or by representatives of this National Assembly, Members, that serious human rights violations are taking place. Now, in this area, at this point, when the debate on this report is good; and I think we need to stand here together, in particular, the National Assembly should advocate that the things that are written here, the reminders, the warnings of violations, in fact, be corrected, eliminated; not deepened. In short, let us move from words to concrete situations, especially when it comes to human rights and freedoms. I propose, for the first time, that you begin on your own initiative a procedure for warnings of serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in placing in space — this is not recorded in Mrs Nusdorfer's report for last year — when an appropriate route was chosen on this A1 motorway between Velenje south and Šentrupert; it is now chosen, this is the Koper-Hungarian motorway. I must say that we have been Members of this National Assembly from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Agriculture in the Field, and in our knowledge of the substantive and professional matters that have taken place and which have been pointed out to us by the people of the three municipalities, Braslovce, Šmartno ob Paki and Polzel. That's all I'm going to say, in one municipality, this is Šmartno ob Paki, and in the village of Podpodr 3% of the population will simply collapse. They justified where substantive and professional errors were made in the spatial document, namely the State Spatial Plan, which began in 2007 and was adopted in 2017. Mrs Nussdorfer was informed about this, she was there. The former Ombudsman made various promises to these affected citizens and citizens. I didn't find this in last year's report. I'm sorry if I missed it, I couldn't find it. Neither was any promise made by the Ombudsman. The Members we have reviewed will certainly be taking this matter forward in the National Assembly in order to stop violating the rights and freedoms set out if so. Secondly, even if this rapid road link is reached as soon as possible, which is actually needed by Slovenia; however, I expect you to examine on your own initiative how it is. Although the Constitutional Court has recently issued its decision on procedural matters, it also stated that professional matters are not the subject of their judgment, and look at this. I think we have some other Members here in the National Assembly to say. Secondly, I reiterate what I have also pointed out on the Committee, the violation of the right to education, which occurs in Slovenia to children with special needs, in particular those who have a decision on direction and are guaranteed a companion. It's about really sick kids. For the most part, there are a lot of autismists here who have been alerted to the Ministry for years that their rights have been violated here. The Ministry doesn't move out of town. The Municipality of Celje, including the Community of Slovenian municipalities, several parents and schools, gave Mrs Nussdorfer an initiative two years ago with a professional, legal opinion to initiate a constitutional review procedure, I think this is Article 10 of the Law on the Education of Children with Special Needs. I suggest that this matter be brought to light. Third time. I would like to draw attention to the problem of people with disabilities in Slovenia, those with rehabilitation decisions and public funding to ensure social and economic integration. Many of those who are lucky – many of them are few – are employed in employment centers. This is a matter governed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I am talking about a specific case from Celje, this is the Griffin Employment Centre in Celje; I am informed that similar things are happening elsewhere in Slovenia, that in these forms of employment supported by the State by public funds there are serious violations of legal rights, the dignity of these people who are employed and their human rights and freedoms. I suggest that you, on your own initiative, actually review what this is like. The country should be proactive here and help to engage as many of these people as possible, who want to be economically active, actually engage. Give them jobs. These jobs, where they could work, are enough in this country. Let us give them opportunities, make productive use of the resources that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has in its budget. And I'd like to say the last. Presidents, we are actually talking today about human rights and fundamental freedoms. I think that whoever uses this space here, it doesn't matter whether he is a man, a woman or an intermediate sex, even if he is noble, can't, in the debate about such a point, call for intolerance, share citizens and citizens of Slovenia with ours, yours, to exercise homophobia or racism. I think that there is no room for such words at this point and there is no purpose to address this report, that we are also spreading intolerance and hate speech behind the stage of public speaking in the National Assembly. I suggest that if this happens, the word of such a person should be taken away from him or her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. This applies to all items of all agendas, not just this point. There's no difference, no exception. I hope you'll stick to it yourself. There's a MEP with a word. Dean Kaloh. And after him he gets the word Sonibo the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u38	President, thank you so much for your word. A nice greeting to the Ombudsman to Mr Svetina and his colleagues, government representatives, of course also colleagues in the debate room! As noted by colleagues, there are over 400 pages of extensive material, but it is also worth noting that the farthest report in the work on the judiciary itself is the 56 - page report. That's understandable on the one hand. The level of public confidence in the Slovenian judiciary is still very low, entirely on the tail of the members of the European Union, and also on the roots of the inadequacy of not saying certain criminal decisions. On the other hand, the Ombudsman himself said that Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. This is also the second most frequent infringement in this report, the second most frequent infringement relates to Article 2 of the Constitution of Slovenia. To this constitutional maximum that Slovenia will truly be a legal and social state, of course, there is still a long way to go, given what is happening on the ground among people. Regarding visits, I am grateful to Mr Svetina that he also visited my native Maribor in early June. There is still a great deal of pressure for people, especially in the social segment. Even social work centres do not do their best work. In my opinion, representatives of various humanitarian societies say that even some of the official roles addressed to social work centres are then directed towards humanitarian societies, but these are serious matters, the most painful ones, when people are still dealing with housing, not always because of their guilt. The Centre for Social Work is in some way powerless and then sends these people to societies, the company UP-ornik is known, where certain Members are involved in any kind of assistance when this is expected of us. However, I would like to point out the discarding violations of human rights that are taking place in the justice system itself. At least three cases were when the representatives of the judiciary themselves came to their attention, on their own initiative, their distress was obviously very severe. I am talking about the case of Judge Radonjić, I am talking about the case of the Maribor prosecutor Pušnik, and now this very rejected, inhumane attack on the Maribor court, to which Mr Svetina also responded. This area will probably have to be even more focused on the Ombudsman, because apparently even in the judiciary itself, things have really gotten tough in the last year, even though we know that the report refers to 2018. Those two segments of which the Ombudsman specifically pointed out his warnings relate to the supervision of the work of the judge and also to the supervision of the prosecutors. The judge's work may, of course, be subject to supervision, including disciplinary proceedings; the only thing I miss in this report is that the Ombudsman does not mention in this report the same case where the supervision was successfully carried out, where a disciplinary sanction was successfully imposed. I asked the Minister of Justice in the parliamentary question how many disciplinary sanctions were imposed in relation to Article 81 of the Judicial Service Act, in particular in points 14 and 15. These two points point to the conduct and conduct of the judge, in the context of his judicial independence. Furthermore, point 15 points out the insulting behaviour, the expression of the judge at work and in his private sphere. Believe it or not, since 2002, it has been said for 17 years that only 12 disciplinary sanctions have been imposed, and we know how much I have been following in the media, that this is the promotion of totalitarian symbols by the representatives of the judiciary of the government to everyone in public. 12 sanctions have been imposed, only six have been issued, five have been reduced or transferred, and only one judge in 17 has been suspended by the Judicial Service because of these two points. It is clear here that in my own house these disciplinary sanctions are not sufficiently rigorous, although I think they should be. As regards the exercise of control over the performance of the state prosecutor's office, the Ombudsman served here with two very plastic cases, although I estimate that one case is purely typical of nature. It's a typical case of ignoring the state's attorneys. The Ombudsman refers to the case when the prosecution was closed and the initiator did so only after he had made a written request for information on the case in question; at the same time, the State Prosecutor did not teach him that, as an injured person, he had the opportunity to take over the prosecution as a private individual. Two points, after re-examination, this decision was characterised as having been taken without a decision to dismiss the complaint and, secondly, without informing the complainant. The point correctly drawn up by the report is, of course, that if the State Prosecutor does not inform the injured person of the rejection of the complaint, he leaves it in some way in uncertainty, because then this person does not know what is going on. At the same time, the lack of confidence in the judicial branch of power is growing again, so that these cases are, of course, not lonely, and they are regularly carried out by fellow citizens to me. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned that there is no verification of the prosecutor's decision in the segment, to dismiss the complaint or to continue the prosecution. The prosecutor, if I do a little caricature, is just blue sky. Neither the Head of Public Prosecutions nor the Attorney General has any influence on the dismissal of criminal charges. If these dismissed criminal charges were subject to the signature of the President or to a group of prosecutors in some of the worse crimes, this action of the Prosecutor would, of course, be much more transparent and, above all, would give individuals confidence in the public prosecutor's office. For comparison only, in 2017, the Ombudsman made 76 recommendations, which were implemented 11, 10 were rejected; in 2018 this rate increased to 88 recommendations, which were not implemented 24 and 9 were rejected. This is a cause for concern because this trend of rejected and unfulfilled recommendations is growing, and the current government is also due to this, despite the fact that the mandate was taken over in September for those four months. When we consider the 2019 report next year, therefore, at the end of the year, I only hope that the government of Marjana Sarca will follow the Ombudsman's recommendations more closely and that the level of unrealised or rejected recommendations will be significantly lower than the figures given by the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. And he'll get the word "Franc Kramar" behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Guardian, representatives and representatives of the Government, esteemed colleagues, respected colleagues! Mr Svetina, I hope that this reality show by Mr Jelinčič has not caused too much harm to you or your team, who have been working for several years to create more order to remind us of things that are not in line with what we have drawn in this country. Yes, it is, a nationalist populist event, which, unfortunately, has received a vast part of the population that has given him the mandate to sit in this national assembly for more than 25 years. It would be hard to say, but I have been following this policy quite well, that some law or some added value is to his work for the benefit of the Slovenes and the Slovenians for whom he so advocates. That really pisses me off. It is difficult to identify yourself with his views that Slovenia is a failure of some foolish views, the fertilizer plant does not know what. Dear colleagues, I believe we all agree that we have been given the opportunity to live in a beautiful country. What is our task, at least those of us Members on this side, is to try to regulate our work in this country in order to be friendly and as good as possible for our citizens and citizens. The only thing I could possibly agree with one piece of one of Mr Jelinčič's sentences is what he said was that this report is a beautiful book. And I'm going to end up here – a beautiful book. However, the contents should be read. I'm sure he didn't try very hard to read this content, otherwise he wouldn't have had the performances he had. This is the second time I've read it myself with great interest, because this report is a mirror to me that you set up for us, who are looking after the legislative procedures that are supposed to regulate life in this country. In summary, my assessment is that we are a state governed, that everything is not so bad. I think he said from the government representatives that we usually try to show in this national council that everything is bad in this country. Far from that, we still have quite a lot to do in many areas, and we are all aware of that together. So much for this introduction. In the statistics report itself, I will not mention what are nice numbers, almost 5,000 issues, over 3,000 initiatives; which is important to me, of which 2 000 were 700, that is 86%, also completed. But what bothers me now is that the second time I haven't done this before, and I haven't read these reports, it's the unresponsiveness of the ministries. Well, that really bothers me, and it's been mentioned several times today. It's hard to understand, I don't know where the problem is with this irresponsibility, whether it's delicate things that can't be solved overnight or within the deadlines set; or whether things stop with an official. I hope that ministers have also read this report and will do something to improve this non-response in the future. It is now the end of the period of the former guardian who has made a special mark on this work. However, I firmly believe that the work that Mr Svetina has done — at least in the light of what I have heard from his presentation, even in the parliamentary group and working in these months — will probably be marked by his own. Mr Svetina, I am pleased that you have also stressed today that in your work you will pay more attention to the elderly and the disabled. We have about 620,000 pensioners; let’s say that one third of these pensioners are such elderly people, whom, this is my personal opinion, we haven’t taken very good care of. Your report also shows that most of the comments are about dissatisfaction with the legal arrangements of the STIZ. We are going through all these reforms of pension legislation, especially citizens and citizens, to change conditions without a wider consensus. And if we go to specifics, 37 years ago, when I entered the labour market, I started paying contributions. I think I was promised 80% of the pension base at the time, and today it's 57%. We super solved the cash register that we did not have major problems with these PIZ measures, but on the other hand we made pensioners of systemic poverty. Decisions with 500, 570 euros of pension, but their faith, spell out that they can survive. And this is one of the tasks that await us. I would also like to point out that I am pleased to note that a large part of these problems have been identified by the coalition in the areas in which citizens and citizens point out that they are not properly regulated, which are also reflected in this report, and that we have also introduced them into our coalition agreement. I hope that we will be able to save him as much as possible. What we usually come to, at least as far as the pension population and all that we have taken from them in the past, the non-coordination of pensions and all that they warn us about, is the infrastructure that we all need as soon as we get to the age of life, especially the homes for the elderly, for which we have absolutely no resources planned at the Ministry of Labour. If I mention again that the country itself has adopted certain frameworks, that we will bring existing homes for the elderly to the level of one- and two-bedrooms, and give ourselves a transitional period until 2020 or 2021; at the same time, we devote no euro to this. I don't think today, in 2019, there should be a one- or two-bedroom in the nursing home. I hope we find these funds. Usually, money is complicated, so I also gave Monday an initiative to the Minister of Finance. In the framework of the budget presented to the coalition on Brdo, there are almost no investment funds; at the same time, we should reduce public debt again. For the information I have obtained, public debt is on average around 80% of the European Union. Slovenia will reach around 66% at the end of this year with public debt. The Minister's plans for next year are to reduce the target again and the Maastricht target is 60%. We are one of the most successful countries in this area. My proposal was to consider and slow down, instead of halving 4%, next year, 2% and some of these funds are earmarked primarily for what I am talking about for the population of older people. We now face a number of challenges, and we need to take care of this population. The younger generations, with all that they meet, will save themselves, are healthy, capable, and we must take care of our parents' generation. And they don't live very good lives in this country today. The practice, which was also commended by the former guardian, is to do your work also by going to the field, that you were in many municipalities, I think, mention here your external business, I think that is one expression. The report also states that our citizens and citizens often need someone to confess. I know because I've worked nine years as a professional union president, two years as a labor director, but for the last 16 years, I've been in charge of the staff service, that people need a human being, even if you can't help him hear that he has someone. These conversations of yours, when you spend at least half an hour on everyone for these interviews, are more than welcome. The report also says that these interviews are often designed to give people legal advice. Isn't it weird, respected colleagues and colleagues? 854 we have laws in this country, 19,000, almost 20,000 under-laws. Where, if I return to the population of the elderly, will they find themselves, not least, in the complex system of exercising the rights they belong to? It starts with banal stuff, it's clear to us that this 70-, 80-year-old population needs to know how to use an ATM and I'm not going to mention anything else. [[…]] Let me get this straight. Some of these matters have already begun to be fulfilled. The conversation was about a demographic fund that is expected to help pay pensions more stablely in the long run. For the law on long - term care, which we are all really looking forward to and incomprehensiblely long translation into these rooms, it is now also the day of one deadline. Drinking water and all other unfulfilled constitutional decisions – this is not proud of us, my fellow Members and colleagues. However, some things are moving, and even the district minister has promised legislation, all the sub-legal acts that we have written down remain, at least as far as drinking water is concerned, will also be prepared in the coming months. In short, I wish you, your well-respected guardian, you and your team, a great deal of success at work and, of course, to set up mirrors for us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Kramar, to prepare himself for the Mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, President. In fact, I am glad that we are all so fighting for pensioners, but unfortunately, some for 40 years of work receive 530 euros in pensions. You can imagine how to spend an entire month with such resources. I believe that it will be absolutely necessary and that the Ombudsman must also strive to regulate legislation in the area of pensioners. Current legislation, according to my assessment, does not allow for greater consumption and does not allow the conditions for pensioners to be significantly improved, as they are currently. We need to know that the pensioners receive their pensions on the basis of their past work and that the evaluation of past years of work in such pensions is a mockery and that this matter must also be changed in the future, including through the assistance of the Ombudsman. Another segment or part of the population, I think, is that he's lost human rights, and these are the workers employed in the industry. The minimum wage is set by the State. Interestingly, we need to set a minimum wage so that employers do not do this because employers are the ones paying wages. Most of these people were left without the help of the unions. Real-sector unions are quiet, calm, in fact, offering no support to workers who earn minimum wages. Although the right to work is enshrined in the Constitution, it is not stated that for each work there must also be an adequate payment, allowing a normal life for someone who works hard in his factory for 8 hours. It is interesting, however, that, of course, trade unions on the other side of the public sector, since their employer is a country, whenever they fight for their rights, they can cash in a large number of people who come before Parliament and ask for their rights, and then these rights are settled and their salaries increased. We need to be aware that there are significantly more people who contribute to this small state budget, which we have called direct producers in times, today are wage workers. I'd say that, for their survival, they really have to fight for minimum wage from month to month, something more to afford. I believe that these human rights are severely reduced, severely reduced, and that employers should be aware that their employees, who work hard for eight hours, pay fairly. If we compare ourselves with Europe, and in all cases compare ourselves with Europe, of course, we are moving away from European standards after workers' salaries. In neighbouring countries, wages are significantly better, except in Croatia, the problem may be even more difficult, but it seems unfair to me that these workers first built factories in the previous system, called a rotten system, and then in this system, in Slovenia, they were secretly secreted, usually by directors or other owners. Then the workers again paid off the loan with which someone became the owner. A fine example of this is Iskra and Mr Šešok, who charges his workers even the parking lot in the reverse parking lot. I think we should have stronger levers here, so that these things should be spoken out loud, so things start to improve if they don't, we're going to lose the middle class in the future. Although I do not know how the average wage in Slovenia is calculated, showing over a thousand and a few euros, on the other hand, if I know that a nice part of the population deserves a minimum wage. So someone on the other hand has such a good salary that then the average turns out to be European comparable, even though I can say it isn't. Finally, if I wasn't too long, I would point out another problem that's not so small, but it's important for my ideas – people's lives in protected areas. They were given the right to normal governance, normal work, normal life in a protected area. They don't get any compensation for that, and I don't think that's right. These people are equal citizens of this country and have their right to live in accordance with all the regulations that are in Slovenia, but if someone takes away their right to do something, then they have to replace it with financial means. It's unacceptable what's going on. I think people in these protected environments could tell you a lot of things. Here I think that the Ombudsman is also waiting for one job to point out this country and that the rules that will be adopted in the future adhere to these principles and actually allow people to live a normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Carmen Furman, get Iva Dimic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I will say that, in the debate so far, I have listened very carefully to my colleagues from the coalition, what they will be able to say about this, indeed, increasingly fatter book or the Ombudsman's report. In fact, I expected that in their debate there would also be some concrete changes in the direction of legislative changes, that these anomalies or violations would no longer occur, or that at least this report by the Ombudsman in the coming years might be a little thinner at least in the coming year. The fact is that you have a pair of scissors and a canvas in your hand, you are the one who can propose changes, as has already been said, we in the opposition will always be happy to support those good, real solutions of our citizens. But you don't suggest them, that's the greatest regret. But you're always talking about it when we're proposing solutions to give you some kind of pear action. You are even voting against those proposals that also go against being summarised in your coalition agreement. It has already been said that you have written down many things to improve the social status of the pensioners, the disabled and many others. You've also set some sort of timeline in your coalition contract. But so far you haven't realized any of this. It is true that the Slovenian Democratic Party, in order to refresh your memory at the end of last December, prepared a good proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, and you have, of course, rejected this proposal again. Here I regret to say that we are getting more and more real, that you are not adopting laws in terms of how good they are, what would be good for our citizens, how to eliminate these injustices, but obviously, given who is proposing them. We also hear many times from your things how the social and legal state that we are. Well, since we're already in the Ombudsman's report, which we said is a year thicker, I'm asking you now – social for whom? For the pensioners who have to live with poor wages today? Perhaps for workers who have increasingly overworked salaries to be able, on the other hand, to meet your ever-widening social needs? Perhaps for young people who do not find a suitable economic social status here and therefore go to work abroad? Is your government, of course, not preparing a solution for those who are ill with medical waiting periods? Social services for people with disabilities who are more vulnerable to human rights year after year or for people with disabilities who have to survive for a few more than 200 euros a month? It's a state of law. Legal? How legal, given that joy is not respected or violated by decisions of the Constitutional Court? I was taught in law school that we have three branches of authority, and these branches are separate, legislative, executive and judicial. Here in this House, however, politics finds a thousand and one reason why the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not respected. It has also been said on your part today that these violations are similar and have been repeated for years. That is true, but the problem is that new ones are added each year to these violations. Here I would point out, given what happened last year, also the reorganisation of social work centres, one such major breakdown, the laps of your previous government, which is essentially the same as the current one, into a slightly extended composition. This, of course, caused delays in the payment of scholarships to students and the payment of child allowances, not to tell what stories were then written in some families. We would also stop at institutional protection in nursing homes. Above all, I am talking about the problem of charging additional services in nursing homes, such as washing the elderly and changing diapers. We have come so far as to charge this as additional services. Although an extraordinary meeting of the committee was convened here, solutions in practice have apparently not been brought to life, have not been realized. Otherwise, it has been said that by the end of the year this law on long-term care is being prepared, which is now supposed to miraculously solve all these problems, but I'm afraid there will be none. For from preparation to adoption or implementation of the law in practice is a very long way to go. On the other hand, given what the draft of this law is in preparation, I must say that the professional public is already being advertised, which considers that it would be better if it were not, than if such a law, which is now in preparation, were adopted. The problem is that you're too busy at home. In fact, in the last ten years your government or state has not built any homes for pensioners in our country. And we also have an outflow of European funds here, even for the construction of smaller houses, European funds could be obtained but not. The pressure is thus exerted on municipalities that deal with this problem through pilot care and home care projects. There's also a problem in the home. Here you have succeeded with two legislative changes, on the one hand with a minimum wage and a raise in public sector wages, in completely breaking the wage-social transfer ratio, to the extent that, in fact, the social sector can reach as much as 89% of the minimum wage today and, on the other hand, the social workers' contributions to the highest in the OECD Member States. In the position of one of the government's parties, I have observed that it is important to respond quickly to human rights violations. I fully agree, but I will now ask these political parties in the government - which of these violations did you respond to quickly? Based on what the situation shows and what the Guardian's report shows, it's obvious to anyone. Reforms that should be regulated or adopted, both in the field of the pension system, in the field of health care and also in the field of the labour market, are needed here. I hope you will. For as long as this Parliament has been in operation, we have always listened to how systemic solutions are being drawn up, rejecting all amendments to the legislation of the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the end of the day, I will allow myself to complete my colleague Horvath, who said that the Ombudsman's report was a mirror for all of us. I agree that it is a mirror for all of us, but it is also a consequence of your multi-annual policy, the policy of one and the same authority, which is working in a somewhat extended composition today in this Parliament, and has not done anything to this end to reduce these violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic has the word, and Mojca Žnidarič is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Government, respectable Ombudsman, colleague and colleague! The Guardian's report, it was said, was a mirror for all of us. Of course, the Ombudsman's report, this time the report of the former Ombudsman, Vlasta Nussdorfer, but 88 recommendations, is the same throughout the entire mandate more or less of all the recommendations. Thus, it is a real mirror of the government, including, of course, the National Assembly and, last but not least, the guardians. It speaks of the fact that 88 reports in one term were not attempted or modified, which means that people are constantly alerting and that both the National Assembly and the Government of these people are simply not hearing. And I'm sure and I believe that there are more and more calls to the Keeper because people feel simply powerless. They do not find where else to turn, and they hope that the Keeper will save them, help save their distress. And when they come to the Keeper, of course, with such powers and as the Institute is designed, the Keeper, apart from the recommendation of the Government, the National Assembly, the authorities, the Ministry, has no other instrument in hand. It is up to us if we want to change these things in this current mandate and, of course, reduce the recommendations. We read all the time, backlogs to CSD. How many years have there been backlogs at social work centers? The Ombudsman warns, the Ministry of Labour under the leadership of Anje Kopač Dark has been preparing changes, but the problems are still here, even more so with the reorganisation, which was based on the assumption that the reorganisation will bring a solution to a number of problems in Slovenia. As a result, it is also expected that, on my part, a smaller number of urgent matters will also be addressed to the Ombudsman. However, it is not only a problem within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs or in these waiting types of pending decisions. We read all the time, still too many, too slow-acting justice in Slovenia. We still have too many warnings in this report, and people are still complaining that they have indemnifications due to an unreasonable long-term trial. We just don't know here either, or maybe we don't want to speed things up, so we can say and be proud: but we are in a country of law and in our country the law is working. I believe that the law works very well and we have very good laws, but these laws are not implemented or control is somehow worse, limping, and it seems to me that this is simply causing all this mistrust of people who are troubled, that they will still have some reasonable time to decide the judgment, that they will achieve justice, and that they are drifting away and people are becoming apathetic, losing confidence in the country, in some legal security and doing harm. The damage is done because Slovenia is simply then losing the reputation of a legal one, we mentioned earlier, a social state. She would have touched the long-term care law. The former government predicted it. It'll be now, won't it? I asked Maya where she was, they said she'd be at the tables in September. It was September, they said in November it would be on our tables. Yeah, and he's gone and he's gone. People, however, need a legal basis so that they can live a decent life at home, at home, in order to care for a care, perhaps in the home, even in the form of long - term care. I believe that there is a problem with long-term care, that it is difficult to provide financial resources, however, certain customers have been in the government for almost 20 years. I wonder how the new mandate always reopens long-term care. How is there no continuity in getting me long - term care or in this law to see the light? It is not only a long-term supply problem, but also a waiting type. Waiting species that we just don't know how to save. We all put great hopes in the minister. This, of course, not only puts our hopes in him, but we are probably also causing some pressure, some pressure to go into this area responsibly, quickly, effectively. But I don't understand why it needs such a long-term procedure, such a long-term analysis. The former Minister who resigned, Fakin, was a master of numbers [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr Žnidarič will receive the text for the debate and Mr Ferenc Horváth will be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. A lovely greeting to all present! There were 4 thousand 719 cases heard by the Ombudsman last year, representing a 5.5% increase compared to the previous year. This increase is huge. While I believe that the increase in cases is not a reflection of the number of problems, the number of violations, which is so high, but that it is a reflection of the awareness of the people to whom they can turn, i.e. the visibility of the Ombudsman's institution and also of accessibility. That is why I very much welcome this work on the ground. I must say that our inhabitants, our citizens, were very honored when the guardian visited them about two years ago in Ormož. I know that even in some small places, rural areas, such a visit means a lot to them, so I welcome it and I want you to continue this work in person. The issue or this report of the Ombudsman was, of course, dealt with by the Labour Committee, as an interested working body, then also by the Commission on Petitions. I have already highlighted some things there, especially, I would say that disability is the one that remains that remains a pressing problem or the challenge of ensuring equal opportunities in our society. Today, much has already been said about discrimination against disabled students in transport. As far as we have heard, perhaps in the end, to obtain the approval of the Ministry of Infrastructure, this legislation should be in its final stage, which I am pleased to see, but I will wait for the ministry to respond. The problem of the blind and the visually impaired has been addressed in particular by the Commission on Petitions in February, where the Commission unanimously decided that the Ministry of Labour should, within four months, arrange for the parents of the visually impaired and blind children to receive the two supplements they belong to back up. As far as I can read from the media, this law is also ready, and I will also ask here for confirmation by the Ministry to ensure that we are at what stage the matter is, it is said, that there are also movements here. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the non-coordination of disability benefits, including other allowances. It is true that many years have not been coordinated, but I must say that with this year, as of 1 January 2019, there has been a 2.7% increase, so this year we have partially arranged this. In the case of disability, however, I am particularly concerned that very many disabled persons are unemployed after disability. Here I would really like the employers to take advantage of all the real opportunities that are in practice and for their employee who was, I don't know, 10, 20 or 30 years good in the company when he was healthy when he was able to hold on to every job, even then, after becoming disabled, they found the right job. Maybe we can make a difference here too with the quota system, because for some industries these percentages of employment for disabled persons are quite low, from 2% to 6%. I think the public administration could also be a model here to have a higher percentage, not just 2%. As it is said, we have a lot of challenges in this area, and I am sure, given that we know and know of what area the current Ombudsman has already dealt with, I believe that he will therefore give a great deal of attention to this area of disability and that he has a lot of personal experience in this area. I believe in progress in this area. Retirement benefits have been made several times today. But I personally agree that most of them, too, that pensions are low, are too low. The biggest problem is where the pensioner remains alone when the partner dies and lives with one pension. Most of these pensioners live below the poverty line. I don't think that you're just here in Desus and Sab who know this or speak out loud about it, but that we must all be aware of it and do something in this area as soon as possible. The Ombudsman repeatedly, for several years in a row, also draws attention to problems or injustices in the acquisition of retirement age. I personally fully agree with him. The people who bought up their pension gave very high amounts, I think just days ago an article on this subject was much higher than if they had been employed and regularly paid contributions to the pension register. Then, if they retire before the age of 65, they have very high discounts. True, if they don’t have them after 65 years of age, if they do, if they do, but that’s why they have most of them, they have very high discounts. The Ombudsman had already addressed the matter to the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court had decided at that time that the matter was not against the Constitution, so now the Ombudsman reiterates his recommendation that people should then be given the opportunity to receive the funds back if they did not have any of it. Many times, the problem of overoccupation of social security institutions has been raised in several places. I think we all have to look together for all the other options, the possibility of deinstitutionalisation. The law on long-term care is also necessary, indeed, as soon as possible. Slovenia already has more than the others, an average number of people in different homes, pension homes and other institutions. I think that we must all look together for solutions, i.e. some smaller housing units, including farm stays and other things they know in other countries where we can follow suit. The problem of placing the elderly in retirement homes in Croatia has already been exposed, so I will not repeat it. The Ombudsman's report also exposed discrimination against the elderly, mainly focusing on the elderly Roma. True, if you are illiterate, immobilized, of course, people can manipulate you so much more. That is why it is right, I also agree with this recommendation made by the Ombudsman to pay even more attention to this issue and to raising awareness of the Roma as well as of other minorities or the general population. For anyone who is highly educated can have very great difficulty in receiving the elderly, for example, with dementia, which is one of the very common problems of today. The talk was about putting this aside a little bit, which has not been repeated today, the problem of communicable diseases and compulsory vaccination. The Ombudsman recommends here that all dilemmas, mandatory vaccination issues should be resolved in an open dialogue, in order to include the profession in particular, in order to be more actively involved. Otherwise, there might be a slightly clearer view of the Ombudsman here, because in recent months we can monitor quite a number of articles in the media about the outbreak of various infectious diseases. I think it's really going to have to be a little clearer here when vaccinations are mandatory and when they shouldn't be. In light of this, I can say that in this last year, since I've been here, and at this time, when we've been considering two reports of the Ombudsman, it's somehow detectable movement for the better. I think they are. Personally, though, I would like these movements to be faster, and I will make a personal effort to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Ferenc Horváth, and it is prepared by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted! Mindenkink's paw's gonna get his ass kicked! I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Nussdorfer for her work. Of course, I also wish Mr Sveta much success. I think that the former guardian had a very close relationship with the national community, came to the ground many times, and people appreciated it, and, of course, also to Mr Svetina on behalf of the national community, we can promise that we will also actively participate in these procedures if this is necessary. Of course, I do not envy the Ombudsman, because the issue that we have presented today in the National Assembly is so wide, and I believe that this is only a fraction of what is probably actually waiting on the ground and, of course, is also recorded in these reports. In the previous term, the Ombudsman has actually taken over some of the functions of the state authorities. I think that it has often found a significant gap between the law de jure and the de facto, which also shows that certain authorities do not exercise those control functions in the way they should or may not at all, at least not from the point of view of the national community. I am referring mainly to the use of the national language, which is also in the national mixed area of the official language. We have recently received one letter in which, in fact, one of the judicial authorities even wrote that because a person has initiated proceedings in the Hungarian language, the procedure takes longer, which I do not think should have happened. I think this, at least for me, is unacceptable, because this somehow suggests that we should at least use all the Slovenian language. The issue of human rights can be asked very widely. As the Member of Parliament, which is the farthest from Ljubljana at present, I am very disturbed by this centralisation, which is taking place in our country or which exists, at least in fact the people we drive, if not, every day we find that we are actually deprived compared to the people who live in Ljubljana or near Ljubljana. For many times I feel that many of our rights are actually being cut short by this. It is all too centralised and I often feel that this northeast part of Pomurje is good for this country only when it is necessary to place certain ecologically controversial investments or something like that. We would like this backlog of northeastern Slovenia to decrease compared to the western part of Slovenia and also the central part of Slovenia. It is because I think that this very economic lagging behind and social weakness is causing many problems in this area that we are talking about today. In fact, many of the state institutions in the bilingual area have disappeared in recent years. Of course, the use of Hungarian is guaranteed in the one-language area, but we know that this is not the same. In northeastern Slovenia there is also a very large number of people living below the poverty line. If we are talking to people about social state and social responsibility, then I think there are a lot of people who don't feel that way or feel that they're actually being neglected. From the point of view of the national community, I believe that we must first point out the hate speech that has occurred many times in recent years, not only in individuals but also in the media, but also sometimes by certain political parties or politicians, also here in the National Assembly. Sometimes the question and role of the Member, as well as of other representatives of Hungary, is raised personally by me, and I believe also by the Italian national communities, because many times when we defend our views, which we have been given with the Constitution and various laws, we are already accused of nationalism or something like that. However, if any policy from Italy or Hungary makes a statement that is considered inappropriate in Slovenia, we, too, as representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, are automatically burned, which I do not think is right and inappropriate in the 21st century. As far as media law is concerned, I hope that it will better address the issue of hate speech, because I believe that hate speech is one of our biggest problems, not only of our national community, but of Slovenian society in general. I would like to support the amendment of legislation that would actually allow the Ombudsman's comments to be taken into account and implemented in a relatively short time, because otherwise we are witnessing that certain observations from year to year are increasing and that the State authorities do not respond to many of these things and then we are witnessing that the whole process does not end as we would like. And perhaps the work of the Keeper himself is not as valued as it should be. I very much hope that in the future we will have as few of these recommendations as possible, not to make fewer applications, but to take steps to make vulnerable groups of nationalities and other vulnerable groups more heard in Slovenia and to make the country even more firm for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Get Eva Irgle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u52	Vice President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the representatives who are sitting in front of us, and especially to our new ombudsman! A number of different thoughts were spoken today. There have also been some that are specifically linked to the National Assembly and our powers. There have been many expressions addressed to the executive branch. We cannot expect any answers from them today; they are here today following the debate on the report prepared by the ombudsman or the ombudsman's institute. At first, I must say that this material is extensive, that it is well prepared, that the former ombudsman has made an effort to deliver this report to the National Assembly before leaving the office of ombudswoman. I have no doubt that there will be no reports as high-quality as possible – I do not consider this report as bad – even in the future. And that, if possible, the ombudsman will deliver a report to us as soon as he is ready. Given that I represent an older population in the National Assembly, of course I am sensitive to social issues, so I will bring down some of the things that concern me and concern me in our society. I want to say something about putting the elders in nursing homes. First, of course, I would like to say something about how our people are settled in homes in neighbouring Croatia and then, of course, at home. In fact, just that, over 7,000 people are waiting for their place in the nursing home, is one of the things that we can be deeply concerned about. It's not that list that someone logs into multiple homes and then goes where they get it first, but it's just a list of those people who actually need accommodation at this point. Yes, given that it has been on my back for several years now, I remember when we were young looking forward to visiting the Adriatic Sea in Croatia. That's where we went on vacation. Now I care that our elderly people go there, or they take our elderly people to their homes for the elderly, and they call them family homes. Since I come from the end of Slovenia, where a hen has its head, there are increasing numbers of elderly people who actually go to Croatia. This is mainly due to the cost of the accommodation itself. However, if we are talking about home homes, then there is one big concern that we have not actually built any home for the elderly in Slovenia in ten years. Someone earlier said that it was ten years old, but he forgot that at the time, during that period, their government was, too, for some time. I must say that all those governments that have been in this matter have not paid enough attention or nothing has happened in this area. That's what they say. Caring for the elderly has been canceled. You know what else I'm worried about? I noticed that Slovenian homes are sold to foreign administrators at home, specifically from Austria, and then there are some connections, companies with the French, which are supposed to build homes in Slovenia for the accommodation of the elderly. Yes, every matter will be welcome, but I think this country, we must take care of it first without leaving that responsibility to someone from abroad. But it's better than having waiting lines. It is true, however, that we have also recently discussed in the National Assembly of the Committee on Agriculture that the possibility of additional activities on farms would also be the accommodation of the elderly but without health care. It is said that if someone came to this stage to have a much more specific supply, it is said that he can no longer care for himself, then, of course, simply in these farms he would not be able to stay. When I talked about the pressing problems that arise when people live in homes, they actually have to pay extra money for certain things. For example, if they want to be bathed repeatedly, they must pay extra. After that, showering is limited to a certain number, additional payment must also be made for cutting nails, wrapping legs, assistance in dressing with elastic socks, the cost of infection measures such as MRSA, various diets, then installing hearing aids, the story is similar in diapers. Even some restrictions on 3 diapers per day, imagine that someone needs this more. What does that mean? That he'll have to be in a diaper the way he is, or will he get another diaper? These are the issues they care about. This is actually also invested in the prices at home. Well, if we are still talking about the possibility of discrimination against older people in the field of health, it is very worrying. Choosing a personal doctor in a home – very poor possibilities exist, access to a doctor also, and services. This is a few acute problems we should be dealing with. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u53	Your Honour, you've had a few more seconds at your disposal, but they're gone. The word is Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. As I can see, I have only two minutes to go, but, thank God, I have already pointed out, in my initial position, the violations of human rights arising from the Ombudsman's 2018 report, which we are also reminding the Commission of petitions and of human rights and equal opportunities. Like the Ombudsman, we find that the most petitions come from the judicial system. Even today, many of you have debated this, and even the report itself shows that in fact the greatest violation of human rights is in this area. Another area is social affairs and labour law. However, the third area is always more visible — health matters. The Ombudsman also explained, in his opening remarks, that health roles have increased dramatically. This is also noted by us, especially because of the long waiting lines, even because of the Law on Infectious Diseases, because some have not had the opportunity to explain their views, and then we have made it possible for them to do so on the Commission. What we find over and over again is that the Ombudsman does his job to recommend, but then those who should apply these recommendations are not always as they should be. I am also personally disturbed by all too often by the so-called institutional ignorance that we face on the committee, and I can say that sometimes only after more than a few hours do we get certain answers. How this must be with citizens only. Otherwise, I welcome the good practice introduced by the former guardian, that the current Ombudsman continues to visit people on the ground, which seems essential to me, because people need to be heard. Hear, we need to be able to listen to them, help them with their problems, and then start to solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are at the conclusion of a discussion in which a representative or a representative of the Government and a proposer will be given the floor. Andrej Katič has the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u56	We propose that individual departments start with their answers, and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will be the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u57	Go ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Ombudsman, Members, Members and, of course, all invited representatives from the ministries, warmly welcomed on behalf of and by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities! At the Ministry, we are well aware of the importance of the role of the Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia and of the importance of his warnings about possible human rights violations. All the Ministry’s professional departments, the comments and the Ombudsman’s initiatives are carefully examined and dealt with with with with with all seriousness and a great deal of responsibility. We try to be responsive as quickly as possible, but it is true that sometimes we respond with a few delays for objective reasons. We have also examined the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, particularly in the work that deals in any way with the working areas of the Ministry of Labour. We also note that certain things are still open and unrealised, but we can ensure that we will continue to work for more appropriate systemic solutions for mutual satisfaction in the future, and, of course, for the satisfaction of people, with the aim of ensuring the most favourable living conditions for all, and in particular for the most vulnerable groups of the population. Extensive negotiations are currently under way with the social partners regarding amendments and the addition of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The legislative changes envisaged will, inter alia, ensure an improvement in the social situation of all pension and disability beneficiaries, with particular attention being paid to improving the social security of the elderly and those who are no longer able to work. This will increase the lowest age pensions, widows, family invalidity pensions, as well as disability benefits. As part of the ministry's social protection tasks, a number of measures are under way with the aim of ensuring a comparable standard of services, adapting the organisation to new professional challenges and ensuring quality treatment according to the needs of users. There are working groups and commissions that are already preparing more detailed solutions to be used to implement the recommendations. In the field of mental health, the housing and treatment of persons with mental health problems, as well as persons with dementia in the protected departments of special or combined social protection institutions, shall be addressed by supplementing the guidelines for accommodation in protected departments or institutional protection, by establishing additional capacities, updating the employment records of capacity, and examples of good practice, replacing institutional protected treatment with supervised treatment in the community, as well as by increasing the involvement of the coordinators of social work centres. The promotion of the verification procedure for protected departments and the strengthening of the role of representatives is also a priority in this area. I would also add that measures are under way in the field of institutional accommodation for older convicts and measures to prevent and control hospital infections in nursing homes. With regard to the shortcomings in the enforcement of public funds rights, I would like to mention that we have taken an intense approach in recent months to a faster resolution of complaints. A larger number of employees at the Ministry of Labour have been involved in the project to remedy the arrears. Six months ago, the backlogs were indeed two years ago, and now we have substantially reduced them and we expect them, at such a pace to resolve complaints of course, and of course we estimate that the backlogs will be eliminated within a few months. Perhaps a concrete response to the situation of CUDV Black. I would like to mention that the resolution of problems or recommendations by the Ombudsman is already in the plan and in the perspective of solving the problems presented. It's a shorter period. As far as hiring new inspectors are concerned, I can say that the proceedings are under way. Ageing is, of course, an area of exceptional importance. That is precisely why the Long-Live Society Strategy has been adopted. The action plans are now in preparation, where cooperation by all departments will be needed. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities with 14. 6. 2019, i.e. in the previous week, sent the Child Care Supplement Act to the public debate within four months. The purpose of the bill is to regulate the payment of unpaid child care allowances and to reimburse the judicial and enforcement costs incurred by a judicial judgment. As set out in the proposal for a law, the funds paid under this law will not be included in the income that is taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. I would like to add that the drafting of this law took time, as a number of professional, substantive and legal issues and dilemmas that needed to be addressed, resolved and adequately stopped during the writing of this law. They also helped us with the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Bradi Božnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The next is Simona Repar Bornšek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! The new Ministry of Health team is genuinely committed to addressing as many problems as possible. I hope that we will join forces and continue to do so successfully in the areas of human rights violations that are particularly important to us. Of course, one of the areas that is most hot is waiting times. The additional financing of services for the purpose of reducing waiting periods is not the only measure. First, we need to get accurate data analysis, how many people are actually waiting and what services. It is necessary to know that all waiting periods are not disputed because 900 operators report to the National Institute of Public Health and each has a system of their own, they may be subject to derogations. We have undertaken an analysis of these problems and will thus define the key services which, if patients do not come to them, could also constitute a health hazard. The most strength and effort we will then focus on solving this. In addition, last year e-consultation was also enabled by healthcare providers. This is a service where specialists can communicate from a suitable secondary level so that the patient does not actually use the service by putting it into the waiting line. It has also been mentioned in the Act on Infectious Diseases, which is included in the priorities or in the Government's programme of work for 2019. I would also like to respond to Mr Prednik's proposal on how to deal with these rare diseases. I must say that rare diseases are treated very well in Slovenia because we are in the upper third of countries in the European Union and we have established a national contact point for rare diseases. In view of the fact that 2012 has already drawn up a work plan, which is due to expire next year, the Ministry will also appoint a new working group in the field of rare diseases for the period 2021-2030. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. It's got magic in it. Sandy Churin, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, Honourable Ombudsman, Honourable Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Ombudsman, as an institution for the control of power over possible interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms, is extremely important for the Ministry of the Interior. We are aware that the procedures we are carrying out within the Ministry can be sensitive in terms of respect for human rights, so at the Ministry of the Interior we will carefully examine any call, the warning we receive from the Ombudsman and respond to it with explanations, explanations and professional arguments. The Ombudsman's initiatives contribute to improving the quality of work and to higher standards of protection of human rights in police procedures, as well as to transparent treatment of all comments and complaints about police procedures. And it is in the field of police work and other security tasks that all the findings, proposals and initiatives of the Ombudsman are being addressed with seriousness. In the area of equality before the law and the prohibition of discrimination, we explain the procedure for entering a gender change into the register on the basis of the Ombudsman's recommendation that the issue of gender change or legal recognition be addressed as soon as possible. To this end, a government inter-ministerial working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Health will examine all aspects of the legal regime for gender change in the Republic of Slovenia, and on this basis the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will also prepare a legal basis for regulating this area. In the field of foreigners and applicants for international protection, we explain the procedures for restricting movement either with regard to individual treatment of applicants when they are deprived of their liberty or with regard to the provision of judicial control over the implementation of all movement limitation measures. In view of the fact that the issue of the threat posed by applicants for international protection to become victims of trafficking has been raised, let me explain that all applicants for international protection, in individual cases, have received awareness of the dangers and pitfalls of trafficking in human beings, within the framework of programmes already under way that have been implemented for a number of years, also in accordance with the Action Plan endorsed by the Government. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Nina Mauhler, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u64	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, respectable Ombudsman, Mr Svetina! Thank you so much for saying that. In line with the Ombudsman’s recommendation on the systematic regulation of the rights of disabled students with regard to transport between the place of residence and the place of education, the Ministry of Infrastructure has already prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, which has already been made public and published on the E-Democracy portal on Tuesday, 18. 6. 2019. That bill will provide an adequate legal basis for the free transport of disabled students. At the same time, this law also proposes the abolition of the age limit for the implementation of these subsidised transport of students and students. It is also envisaged that the changes in both areas would be adopted by the end of this year, which is until December, and then implemented by the new school year 2020/2021. The Ministry of Infrastructure has also further prepared, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and after consulting local communities, a system-wide arrangement for the alternative parking facility, which the Ombudsman has specifically warned us about, and is also included in the proposal for a new Law on Road Traffic Rules. In accordance with the Ombudsman’s recommendations on the introduction of measures to regulate ownership of all categorised roads operating on private land, the Law on the Registration of Real Use of Land, Public Road and Public Railway Infrastructure was adopted in 2018. This law requires operators of categorised roads to register the actual use of land on which road infrastructure lies, irrespective of land ownership. All relevant legal bases shall also be accepted and enforced. Real land use data will be introduced into the Earth's cadastra at the end of March 2020 and legal bases will also be properly implemented. The Ombudsman further expresses his concern in his report about the excessive noise burden caused by road and rail traffic. The ministry in this area emphasises that we are systematically regulating the issue. All new interventions on state road and rail infrastructure are thus planned in the future with the development of noise studies and existing road and rail sections are also being rehabilitated in accordance with the operational programme or operational programmes adopted. Let me add that some less than 160 kilometres of anti-group fences have been carried out along Slovenian roads, slightly less than 50 km of anti-group embankments, and passive anti-group protection has been performed on about 300 buildings. This means that slightly less than 30% of this infrastructure is already included in anti-group measures. In 2018 and 2019, an additional so-called operational noise monitoring for the network of motorways and fast roads is carried out. In addition to the implementation of active and passive anti-group protection measures, DARS has also begun to introduce a traffic ban for heavy goods vehicles at night on certain sections. It uses less noise asphalt, i.e. materials with better noise absorption, to restore road constructions. Also anti-group measures are implemented by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure on both non-road roads and on the railway network. On the railway lines in the coming years, we also expect a greater reduction in the noise burden due to the so-called enforcement of interoperability or the so-called EU technical specifications relating to noise. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we will also undertake thorough reforms of the Road Transport Act in the following half of the year. A new working group will be set up for this purpose, which will also draw up a new proposal for a law on the implementation of the Auto-Tax. Since this is a very complex problem, we will take a little more time and the new law will be ready in 2020. And just a word about the placement of the third development axis. The Constitutional Court took a decision in violation of the judgment on the placement of the route between Šentrupert and Velenj. We welcome this decision of the Constitutional Court both in the Ministry and personally. Only that, in the future, could we also address the right of Korosci to a decent transport connection with the capital, which some in this country like to overlook or even deny to Koros to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mojca Ramšak Pesec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respectable Ombudsman, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Public Administration also deals with all issues, initiatives, recommendations received by the Ombudsman with all due care and responsibility. We are pleased to see the number of recommendations made in the Ombudsman's reports that relate to our area declines, but there are recommendations that appear in several annual reports. These are mainly recommendations relating to the status of public servants or to the provision of staff, procedural, spatial and other conditions for the effective functioning of public administration. I might point out one recommendation that actually appears in the multi-annual reports, but it is an activity that is not unique, but a permanent regular task, which is to ensure adequate staffing structure or staffing conditions for the effective functioning of inspectorates. Here, in fact, it is regrettable that inspectorates have shared this fate in order to reduce the number of employees and to reduce the number in the public sector and public administration, and the actual number of inspectors has been decreasing since 2008. However, I can point out that the number of inspectors has been increasing again in the last three years, so that by the end of 2017 the number of inspectors has reached a level like that of 2008, it is said that when this number has begun to decline, that is a thousand 465 inspectors throughout the state administration or all inspection services. During the interim period, for example in 2013, it was also worrying, only a thousand 400. Well, by the end of 2018, the number of inspectors had reached even the largest number in the last ten years, that's a thousand 487. This year, the government proposed and the National Assembly adopted additional measures to increase the number of inspectors through amendments to the Budget Implementation Act. Thus, 10 new posts of inspectors have been targeted for the Labour Inspectorate, where a large number of infringements of employees' rights are still detected. Now we are also preparing material for the government, because we will also increase the number of inspectors in other inspectorates by an additional number of 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word gets Stane Baluh, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ombudsman, Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues from the Government! Just for a little while. Thank you very much for your report, in which you also have a very special place to protect minority communities and vulnerable communities, where there are also quite a few recommendations. The fact is that there is also a growing awareness among us that there is a horizontal theme where inter-sectoral cooperation is urgently needed, not just inter-sectoral cooperation, but close cooperation at the national level, local level and integration of the minority community. This is awareness and the Government is aware of this and we will also act proactively in the future on this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of government representatives. But since there is still some time left, I wonder if anyone else would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give my word to the Ombudsman. Mr. Peter Svetina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Thank you for the comprehensive debate in which you summarized your views on the report and highlighted them. I very much agree that each of us must accept responsibility, as do I, as the Ombudsman, the Government, and certainly you as Members. Unfortunately, the individual facts in the report were understood slightly differently than they were mentioned. I would like to point out, however, that last year, at the initiative of the Ombudsman, there have been several issues that have been identified as a social problem and not just on the basis of initiatives. These were, for example, child heart surgery, social assistance, noise, discrimination, and so on. The Ombudsman's institution and I personally advocate a culture of dialogue, and above all the culture of the word spoken. Once again, I would like to point out that the Ombudsman does not write laws and that he is in the legislative, judicial and most often enforceable authorities to actually implement the recommendations. All the dilemmas you have put forward in this debate have been taken seriously, as I believe our recommendations have been taken seriously by you. The area of human rights is broad and certainly every step we take in this direction is more than important and necessary. I believe that further cooperation between us will also lead to the improvement of the human rights situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I take it it's an interest. If you would also like to discuss the Ombudsman, Mr Peter Svetina and one of the representatives of the Government, please also report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone; in this case, you will get the word as the last, namely, the representative or representative of the Government and then the Ombudsman. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm guessing we've got four applications. Everyone has five minutes. The first one is mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In the SAB, we took the Ombudsman's report very seriously. We were particularly touched by the situation in the field of disabled people's rights. We know that the sectoral legislation on the regulation of the rights of persons with disabilities in certain segments is 40 years old and is based on an old doctrine based on health care and institutional protection and not on the inclusion of persons with disabilities in society, and we therefore agree with the call. We also agree with the response of the Ministry of Field Affairs. In this light, we also welcome the commitment to regulate long-term care. This very area of long-term care is included in the coalition contract at the initiative of the SAB. We are also glad that the Ministry of Justice is on board. We must stress, however, that long-term care not only involves the care and care of the elderly, but all categories of people need long-term care. These are all people with special needs. In doing so, I would also like to point out the parents of children with special needs who are actually carrying out 24-hour care of their children, and this is a life sentence. It is only right that the Long-Terms Act does not overlook them. This is also linked to the regulation of the health situation. Waiting days are one of the pressing matters. At the same time, we would like to re-emphasize, as well as point out, on each of the parliamentary issues, the regulation of bisan and working relationships in Slovenian hospitals. We know that it is now summer and that the temperature in a number of hospitals or operating rooms reaches 30 degrees and more, so one of these issues is the regulation of the cooling system. I am also pleased that the Ombudsman has highlighted all these matters and that the Government has taken note of these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Sitar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government and the respectable Ombudsman! I am inspired by the hope of listening to this debate, and so on every other word is caring for the elderly or the long-term care – one thing that we keep reminding about in Levica and which solution, as we have already heard, is simply political will. This principle of caution by the Ombudsman, I think we can give him a nice hook here. The terrain also communicates through the Ombudsman's Institute, everything else, that is to say, finding a solution to these problems that arise, we have talked in particular about homes for the elderly, for example, is only and exclusively a matter of political will. Every day or at least every week we hear a new report, yesterday, such as about a broken arm in a nursing home that they did not know about or considered for 24 hours. And then for one third who had to be in a diaper for 30 hours and so on and so forth. We are talking about very practical, very concrete, very unequivocal violations of fundamental human rights in Slovenia in the 21st century. On the violation of the fundamental human right to security and some healthy stay and environment. But the solution is, as we say at the outset, in political will. In Levica we called a good month ago a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, proposed solutions and now, I am sorry that the majority of the Members and Members who today advocated the update of this solution did not advocate the update of this solution on this committee. You voted against one, there were no other. At this point, too, as regards the problem of addressing long-term care, I thank the Ombudsman, of course. And given that the number of testimonies on this issue in the media is rising in public, I believe that if we do not solve this problem at political level, it is systematic that next year the Ombudsman's report will be even more extensive and that those additional pages will be devoted to the care or care of the elderly. The problem, of course, was created by the arrival of a strong market hand in this area, and this is one of the systemic problems that absolutely needs to be taken into account. We have been waiting for the Long-Terms Act since 2002. Every term of office has been the rhetoric of any government, and only a little longer. And whoever tried to address this problem in 17 years stopped it, but it's almost there. This has also happened to us now, and we sincerely hope that this problem will be resolved. When I asked the Minister of Health with a question from the Member States, he assured me that this law would be at the table by the end of the term of office. Then at this meeting of the Labour Committee, we were assured that it would be on the table by the end of this year. If this trend goes forward, great, maybe we'll get this bill this week, but in any case, I hope it saves what will happen. In Levica, of course, we will not stop in this direction, because if anything, if any problem is the one that needs to be put at the forefront of the ageing society that Slovenia is, then it is the care of the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word gets Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u76	Vice President, thank you. All present! When I heard this debate, I have to tell you that this book, fat, is really fat, it says inside what suits the government. I went to see, Mr Knezak, my area on the 125th page, where the Gypsies and there is nowhere to be described, everything beautiful and right, what is going on, what is good is going from here to Europe, but what is critical is not mentioned nor described. We have two Gypsy camps in Krske – one is legalized by Kerin's Grim, and Rome is not legalized. And there's no record of that. Then, if I'm going to move on, my colleague here said there was something to be encouraged. Yes, I agree that it is necessary to encourage them to be literate, but people, do you know how many are driving around Krka, all over Slovenia is Gypsies with cars. What did they go to Samobor, Krapino, in, I don't know where to buy the exams? It's here to be imagined. Slovenian citizens are having a hard time running these computer tests right now, CPP. It's not so nice to talk about how nice and right it is. We also have a problem with yesterday's debate on public education funding. We don't even know what's going to happen because it was a problem, the Constitutional Court's judgment, and it's not clear. Then if I keep going. Anonymous school applications. Let anonymous applications in schools be, but let them sign up, because a lot of times it happens to send an anonymous application, they all come to school, and eventually it's not going to happen. And if I look a little further. I've been warned a few times that I can't say it's insulting to say it's gypsy. Yes, dear colleagues, to find paper, but you ate your pig neck in gypsy on June 13th. In Parliament, that's what our kitchen says. And please don't teach me anymore to tell me that I can't say that these are insults if I tell the Gypsies. My friend Victory told you, too, and he explained to you why it was said. I have a nice case in Krske when they say they're Gypsies themselves, and you're telling me here that I can't say it in public.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u77	Mr. Shisko, please don't use the word "Gypsy" because it's offensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u78	Yeah, then please, Vice President, look at this menu, look, this one's written gypsy to me – pig neck by gypsy. Then please don't write such things in the kitchen or in the National Assembly. That's not offensive. And that's what I'm trying to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The last one gets the word Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u80	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I would just like to respond to the comment made by the highly respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Nina Mauhler, who said that the Ombudsman could also address the fact that the Koros have the right to link with the capital. I agree with this, and I think that we must all in the National Assembly and other executive apparatus, this is the Government, work on ensuring that the rapid road of the third development axis, including the link between Koroška and A1 motorways, is established as soon as possible and in the cheapest way to ensure that environmental and spatial conditions are taken into account as much as possible. I also said – and this is the third development axis, not the connection of Koroška to the capital – as one would join, and then turn right in 40 minutes in Ljubljana The fact is that we both found that the Constitutional Court, by judgment in its decision, found that the matter was procedurally fine and in professional matters was not involved. And right here, when it comes to choosing the route that is now going away from the established transport corridor, there are substantiated facts and data that have occurred in the selection of the route to use certain data, which is obviously – suspected – they did not give the right choice, and this is between routes F 22 and F 6. That's what I was talking about. And route F 6 is the one that will provide the Koros with significantly faster and cheaper access both to the white landscape, this is the third development axis, as well as to our capital. That's what I meant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 1st A item on the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REPORT OF THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OBJECTIVES OF THE STATE PREVENTIVE MECHANISM UNDER THE OPTIONAL PROTOCOL TO THE UN CONVENTION AGAINST Torture AND OTHER CURRENT, HUMAN OR DEGRATE PENSIONAL OR JUSTICE FOR 2018. The report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration. I give my word to the Ombudsman, Mr Peter Svetina, for further explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and Members of Parliament! Under the Act ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment, the Ombudsman shall also carry out the tasks and powers of the State Preventive Mechanism. In this context, the Ombudsman’s co-workers and co-workers visit persons who have been deprived of their liberty and places where these persons may have been or may have been inhabited. The State preventive mechanism is thus intended to strengthen the protection of these persons against torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment. This is how we visit places of deprivation of liberty in Slovenia and see how they treat persons who have been deprived of their liberty there. We also make recommendations to the competent authorities to improve the situation and treatment of these persons. In 2018 we visited 81 places of deprivation of liberty, some individual locations also several times. Of this, 32 visits were made to police stations with a detention centre in Ljubljana, six detention facilities, an asylum home, three psychiatric hospitals, four special welfare institutions, 24 welfare institutions at home of the elderly and 11 educational institutions, including the training institution. I must say that with the responses of the competent authorities to our findings and recommendations to improve the situation, we are largely satisfied because they regularly respond to our recommendations and demonstrate their willingness to cooperate. We note that, in particular, the institutions visited are trying to take all measures for the necessary improvements, which are within their competence. Nevertheless, this time, we also want even better and deeper cooperation with the competent ministries. It is also encouraging that, even for all visits in 2018, the State Preventive Mechanism has not identified cases of torture or other cruel punishment or behaviour. With our recommendations to improve the situation, however, we point to situations that could constitute inhuman or degrading treatment of individuals who are deprived of their liberty. In doing so, we cannot pass the overcrowding of special social security institutions. The consequences are obvious and show not only in inadequate housing conditions and inadequate treatment of the persons who are installed in them but also in the excessive burden on the staff who care for them. Despite the Government's special report and conclusions, the situation in this area is unfortunately not improving in 2018 and remains worrying. With regard to the recommendations concerning psychiatric hospitals, we are particularly concerned about the fact that they are quite repeated. In 2018, for example, we had to remind ourselves again of the need to provide patients with day clothes and the possibility of not wearing pajamas during the day is particularly noted. We also stressed the need for patient activities to be carried out at the end of the week. Further taking into account the provisions of the Mental Health Act, we also find irregularities in the adoption of patients and the application of specific precautions. Even with the State Preventive Mechanism, we can once again commend cooperation with the Ministry of Justice or with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. In this area, however, problems remain in the overcrowding of individual prisons, in the provision of suitable places to stay and in the possibility of working or involving prisoners in a wide variety of activities, and in the provision of too much staff. At this point, we also reiterate the need to comply with the CPT recommendation that detainees should be included in various useful activities such as work, education, sport or other appropriate activities every day for at least eight hours outside their cells. The CPT also recommended in 2017 that the Slovenian authorities continue to seek to ensure a satisfactory programme of activities for all prisoners, both detainees and convicts. Cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior or the police continued to be exemplary when it comes to examining findings from visits to police stations. These relate mainly to the equipment of detention facilities, the recording of detention and the exercise of the rights of detained persons and the possibilities for free movement. We expect that the findings and well-intentioned proposals or recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism on the treatment of migrants or refugees will be helpful to the very responsible and difficult work of the police in this area. We also expect them to contribute to the elimination of perceived shortcomings or irregularities and to prepare appropriate guidelines for the work of the police. We also continue to encourage the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to prepare professional grounds for the integrated and uniform treatment of adolescents with instructions for appropriate educational action, particularly in the case of young people with mental health problems and associated violent and rapidly aggressive behaviour. At the same time, the Ministry will rewind technical standards and spatial conditions for housing, intensive and educational groups and draw up standards that will apply directly to educational homes and youth institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to visits to places of deprivation, the National Preventive Mechanism also carries out many other activities, such as preparing proposals and commenting on existing or proposed laws. Participants often carry out presentations for foreign delegations or visitors, to whom the State Preventive Mechanism is a model in our country, and prepare answers to questions from various networks or other state preventive mechanisms and bodies. Visits to places of deprivation will continue and, of course, on the basis of our findings, we will report to improve the situation where it is necessary. Let me say that we are planning a number of thematic visits in the future. Some will also focus on the treatment of children, older persons and persons with special needs, where attention will be focused on a specific subject. The State preventive mechanism remains active in the national and international spheres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The report was considered by the Commission as a parent labour force for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities and drafted a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the Commission's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. At its meeting, the Commission considered the Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Treatment for 2018, submitted by the Ombudsman to the National Assembly. The Ombudsman said that 81 places were visited in 2018 where persons with deprivation of liberty were found, some after several times. They are satisfied with the responses of the competent authorities to the findings and recommendations for improving the situation as they regularly respond and demonstrate their willingness to cooperate. In particular, the institutions visited are trying to take all measures to improve their domain. Nevertheless, it wishes to increase its cooperation with the competent ministries, in particular with regard to issues where systemic changes are needed. The Ombudsman expressed his satisfaction that in 2018 the State Preventive Mechanism did not detect torture or other cruel punishment or behaviour, and the recommendations point to cases which may constitute inhuman or degrading treatment. In doing so, he reiterated the overcrowding of social security institutions, which result in inadequate housing conditions, treatment of persons in their care and excessive staff burdens. The situation in this area has not improved in 2018 and remains worrying. Social security institutions should encourage departments intended exclusively for persons with dementia diagnosis, and homes for older persons should also give greater emphasis to persons with dementia in the provision of fire safety. With regard to the recommendations concerning psychiatric hospitals, it is a matter of concern to note the same problems again. A representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities explained that mental health issues and the housing of persons with mental health problems of the elderly and the diagnosis of dementia are being addressed as a priority. More modern concepts of working with users are also encouraged. The representative of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions explained that institutions for the cessation of criminal sanctions are housed, except in Cyprus, in old and long-term facilities. He praised the cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, which has more resources to restore these facilities, but it is urgent to restore them. Regarding overcrowding, he highlighted the detention facility in Ljubljana, in which reconstruction is not being invested, as it is expected to move the institution to a new location. Of course, like many times before, human resources problems have also been exposed. The representative of the Ministry of Justice added that the Ministry is not being examined for different possibilities of filling its human resources capacity, including the possibility that soldiers could be transferred to justice officers after the age of 45. The Ministry of Health expects that all DPM recommendations will be taken into account in psychiatric hospitals. As some of the recommendations are repeated, through the representatives of the founders, they proposed that the final report on the implementation of the DPM tasks should also be considered at meetings of the boards of institutions, thereby helping to remove obstacles to the implementation of the recommendations. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior said that the Ministry took into account the findings and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the report and observed them on visits to police stations and the approach taken to remedy the deficiencies. The police are also aware of the state preventive mechanism. Education is also organised to this end. The debate of the members of the Commission highlighted concrete cases that have already been exposed to the public. Mr Ivan Shelih, Deputy Ombudsman, explained that, in a particular case, the measure was recognised as a controversial practice in the institution for the protection of the elderly. In so far as such measures are applied, they must be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Mental Health Act and the Patient Rights Act. However, measures to facilitate the transition between institutions need to be regulated systematically, with cross-cutting coordination and reform of sectoral legislation needed. After the discussion, the Commission adopted a proposal for a recommendation which is an integral part of this report and will be addressed today by the National Assembly. The recommendation reads: “The National Assembly recommends to all competent national and other authorities that they take all necessary measures to implement the recommendations of the State preventive mechanism.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear Guardian with fellow Members, honourable Members and distinguished representatives of the Government! Initially, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his presentation of the report on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism for 2018. This is an important mechanism established to implement the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading penalties or practices. The Government and the ministries are also monitoring the activities of the Ombudsman in this area, as it is a review of the functioning of the State and the institutions where the individual is most vulnerable as he is deprived of his liberty. The Ombudsman shall perform preventive functions within the framework of the State Preventive Mechanism, thereby preventing serious violations of the Convention provisions. While the recommendations are based on a visit to specific institutions, as the Ombudsman initially said. Together, the Ombudsman visited 81 institutions in 2018 and made 484 recommendations. Recommendations to improve the situation shall point out examples which may constitute inhuman or degrading treatment of individuals deprived of their liberty. One of the main reasons is the overoccupation of individual social health institutions, which results in inadequate housing conditions and inadequate treatment of the persons who are installed in them, while at the same time putting too much pressure on the staff who care for them. We are aware that there are no quick solutions, but we must work together to improve the situation in this area in the long term. The Ombudsman states in the report that the response of the competent institutions is largely satisfactory, as the institutions show willingness to cooperate and regularly respond to the recommendations. It notes that the institutions visited are trying to take all measures to make the necessary improvements. It is encouraging that no cases of torture or other cruel punishment or behaviour have been identified during the 2018 visits. In the area of the competence of the Ministry of Justice, specifically the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, 67 recommendations were made, of which two were not adopted concerning the Institute for the Endorsement of Prisons in Cyprus and would require the execution of certain construction works. The Ombudsman also stated in the report that he was largely satisfied with the management's responses and her efforts to improve the situation within the prison system. In particular, it is important that, at the beginning of 2019, the state of implementation of the measures of detention and imprisonment in Slovenian prisons was also addressed by the National Assembly at its meeting of the Committee on Justice and took note of the problems related mainly to exhausted personnel resources and the overstretchment of prisons faced by the Administration since 2000. The Ombudsman wants even better and deeper cooperation with the competent ministries, particularly when it comes to issues that require systemic change. The Ministry of Health agrees with the Ombudsman's assessment of the use of specific protective measures and with indications that it is necessary to include a broader expertise that will give its position and appropriate guidance on the introduction of protective measures in the form of obstruction in the rest room, in the chair and other restrictive measures due to the risk of falling. The Ministry of the Interior shall be active in implementing the recommendations of the State preventive mechanism, in particular with regard to the implementation of procedures for the adoption of an application for international protection as soon as possible. This depends on the number of foreigners waiting for the adoption of the request, spatial and human resources resources, with the advantage of vulnerable categories of persons. The police responded and responded up-to-date to all the Ombudsman's recommendations on visits to police stations. Most of the errors were corrected during the visit and all units were informed of the errors. In individual cases, the units also had to take measures to reduce the errors identified when the Ombudsman visited. The identified deficiencies in the equipment of the premises shall be addressed by the competent police administrations or by the competent service of the Ministry of the Interior. Other recommendations are being implemented within the framework of major investment maintenance works at individual facilities and in the context of new investments already in the preparation of documentation. Also in the field of fire safety in the homes of older citizens, the Inspectorate for Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, acting within the Ministry of Defence, reviewed the recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism and responded to the Ombudsman, and will also take note of the recommendations given in the following regular controls in these homes. These examples show that ministries are aware of the importance of the Ombudsman's recommendations and that the recommendations also concern systemic problems and not just individual institutions. We are actively involved in the implementation of the Ministry's recommendations, and we will also be working to address the shortcomings and implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Left, Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We took note of the report on the work of the DPM and the statistics on visits to exercise control in the Left Group. We note that the Ombudsman visited 81 different locations in cooperation with seven NGOs in the form of supervision at the places of deprivation in 2018. Among the places where the supervision was carried out were the most social security institutions, i.e. home for the elderly, and police stations. There are detention facilities and psychiatric hospitals that are being followed. We conclude from this that these are also locations that, according to the Ombudsman, are higher risk carriers for infringements, or environments that require more attention. After a visit to places of deprivation of liberty or examination of the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty, the Ombudsman made 484 recommendations to the competent authorities in the application of the DPM. We estimate that this is a large number of recommendations that reflect the actual situation, which of course is not good. Most of the recommendations have also been made to social welfare institutions, i.e. nursing homes, according to the content of the most recommendations concerning housing conditions, social protection of users, the possibilities for user routes, the management of procedural documentation, the way in which the staff works and works. It is encouraging that the Ombudsman notes that most institutions regularly respond to recommendations and that the institutions visited take measures to improve the situation mostly. DPM did not detect any cases of torture or cruel treatment in the context of visits to places of deprivation of liberty in last year in the sense of establishing a Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman and degrading penalties or practices. However, in its recommendation, it points to certain practices that could constitute cruel or inhuman treatment, such as the application of special protective measures, the placement of social security providers in corridors and so on. It is worrying that, despite the recommendations made in the Special Report of the Ombudsman on human rights violations of persons with mental disabilities in their involuntary housing and treatment in protected departments of the social health institutions, the situation in this area has still not improved. In Levica, we support the possibility of regulating protected departments of social protection institutions and an initiative to amend legislation in this area. We hope that the recommendations relating to homes for the elderly will be taken into account in the future, including with regard to additional education for staff members, the treatment of persons with dementia and so on. We advocate a method of replacing institutional treatment in protected departments with supervised treatment in the community. Regarding the congestion of prisons, the possibilities for work, the involvement of prisoners in activities and the lack of judicial officers, Levica notes the need for systematic measures to improve the situation in the prison system. There was only one check-in visit to the asylum home, which we think is very few. Among other things, it was found that foreigners were not outside the asylum building or in the air since their arrival and that they were not aware that they had the possibility of moving outside. Not exactly humane practice in an asylum home. DPM reports on exemplary cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Police. In September 2018, the Ombudsman carried out control visits to the Crnomelj Police Station, the Metlik Police Station and the Ilirska Bistrica Police Station, for reporting to the media and alerting NGOs about violations of border procedures with foreigners or asylum seekers. In the report, the Ombudsman shall be circumcised with inexplicable evidence of police work and shall be aware of the role of civil control over police procedures. And yet he did make the visits precisely because of warnings from civil society and the media. In Levica, we refer to the Law on International Protection, which provides that authorities must, in procedures with vulnerable persons with special needs, that is, minors, disabled persons, elderly women, pregnant women, parents with young children, persons with developmental disabilities, victims of trafficking in human beings, victims of rape, victims of torture and so on, provide special care and treatment adapted to their age, adapted to their circumstances. We do not know that the police have so far responded to the Ombudsman's inquiry into how this regulation is implemented in practice. The Left will support the Ombudsman's report on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. I'm guessing he's not here, so let's move on. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that again. Dear Guardian of Human Rights! In the attached report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Treatment for 2018, we can understand that the Ombudsman, in cooperation with selected NGOs, has also ensured the effective performance of the tasks and powers of the DPM in the past year. The National Preventive Mechanism is an additional mechanism to prevent torture and other forms of ill-treatment of people deprived of their liberty. According to many, DPM is a good example of the pro-active role of the Ombudsman with its preventive visits aimed at preventing torture or other ill-treatment before it happens. In presenting their activities, they state that in 2018, the DPM visited 81 different places of deprivation of liberty, 24 social security institutions; this is mainly for homes for the elderly; in these cases, the Ombudsman also issued the most recommendations within all visits, 32 police stations and the Centre for Detention in Ljubljana, which also follow the number of recommendations issued, six institutions for the cessation of prison sentences, an asylum home or its reception facilities, three psychiatric hospitals, four special welfare institutions and 11 educational institutions, including the Training Institute. We are aware of cases, including from the public, that because of spatial distress, people are also placed in hallways or other inappropriate spaces, which the Ombudsman warns that, for example, in nursing homes due to excessive staff burdens, caregivers may be treated worse than they could be if human resources were regulated. On the basis of all the recommendations in the case of social institutions, we cannot escape the fact that there is a need to amend legislation in this area. They also point again to another unrealised decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the Mental Health Act. In its recommendations, the State preventive mechanism also continues to point out the problems of the overoccupation of individual detention facilities, the provision of suitable accommodation facilities and employment opportunities or the involvement of prisoners in activities, and the provision of the necessary judicial police personnel. All the recommendations made in the report this year within the framework of the State Preventive Mechanism are extremely important and it is right to deal with them with full responsibility, especially with the knowledge that the State is the one to take care of the relevant conditions in all the above-mentioned cases. While working with the competent institutes, the DPM is considered to be good, but in reality we are still facing over-occupied departments and unsustainable conditions for employees. The fact is that there will be a lot more to be done to protect both employees in these institutions and the dignity and human rights of persons in institutions. In the SDS Group, we will support the report on the implementation of the DPM tasks in 2018, but at the same time we hope that the competent ministries, with appropriate legislation, will correct the injustices that arise in individual cases and which are also warned by the Ombudsman within the framework of the State Preventive Mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respectable guardian with co-workers, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The report of the Ombudsman on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism is an accompanying report of each annual report presenting to us the performance of the tasks and powers of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading penalties. It is the international commitment of our country to establish a system of preventive visits by independent authorities in those places where people are deprived of their liberty in order to prevent their torture and other forms of cruel behaviour. The Ombudsman has also been carrying out this task seriously and responsibly since 2006, and by recommending to the authorities how to improve the situation and treatment of persons deprived of their liberty, it is important to reflect the importance of caring for the individual deprived of his or her personal freedom. In the SMC Group, we are pleased with the Ombudsman's finding that, in 2018, he did not find torture or other cruel punishment or the conduct of individuals and individuals who live their lives in perverted physical freedom. However, we must not be aware that problems arise mainly through the overcrowding of protected departments of social security institutions. There are, of course, more reasons for over-occupation, they are complex and require common solutions from different stakeholders at both local and national level. We therefore welcome the able conduct of the Minister of Labour, who has moved the activities to regulate the situation in protected departments slightly higher into a political agenda and has already provided the means to establish an additional protected department in Lokavac, which is expected to be completed by the end of this year. The search for new spatial capacities at other locations and the provision of funds for them are also ongoing. Solutions are also actively and intensively sought within projects to deinstitutionalise and place people with mental health problems in the home environment. It is the responsibility of the State to develop appropriate solutions for the specialised treatment of young and adult patients with mental health problems who, due to the most difficult forms of personality and behaviour, endanger their lives or the lives of others, and we cannot and must not give up on them. We believe and expect to see progress in addressing the next report of the Ombudsman in solving this problem. A general recommendation to all competent national authorities to take all necessary measures to implement the recommendations of the National Preventive Mechanism will also be supported by the SMC Group this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the report and the proposal for a recommendation. The order of the panellists has changed significantly. I see that Mr Starović is on the list, which is not in the hall. Mojca Žnidarič is next, prepare for victory Jelinčič Nobleni and Maša Kociper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u94	Have a nice hello again! I haven't checked out, although I've been talking to you for the fourth time today, but that's because I think it's a very important topic as well. This report also says that when an independent body goes to visit institutions where people who are deprived of their freedom are very important to me. I am pleased to say that I have given special attention to the visits of all institutions in my local environment, and I was pleased that the guardian or his team in this recommendation is also a recommendation for improvement – but these are indeed such recommendations in the homes for pensioners or in the psychiatric hospital that it should be better served, that activities can be more distributed during the day or that I do not know that there are certain activities going on at the weekend, that the boxes for anonymous applications may be placed in a more visible place I mean, I really have not noticed any such very strict proposals that should be implemented, but they are not. [[…]] However, a lot of praise was also expressed at the expense of at least our local institutions. I'm saying, I've looked primarily at the Armenian institutions and a little bit wider. That is why I am very happy and thank all the competent people for these recommendations. I'm glad he gave a lot of credit in this report. You seem to have done the same thing to yourself, which I think is important. I'm so oriented myself, I like to give commendation. Not only do children like to hear praise, but also others do, and I think he also on the basis and at the expense of commending very much to change. That's what I was going to say, even though I've spoken many times today. I wish there were more of these praises in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The list of reported debaters has changed again so that we are moving to the final part of the debate, in which we will also get the word to the Government's representatives and the proposer. Breda Božnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. As already mentioned, in the field of mental health, the housing and treatment of persons with mental health problems and persons with dementia in protected departments in special or combined social welfare institutions is addressed by complementing guidance for accommodation in protected departments or institutional protection, the establishment of additional capacities, the updating of the employment record of capacity, and examples of good practice in replacing institutional protection treatment by supervised treatment in the community, as well as greater involvement of the coordinators of social work centres. The promotion of the verification procedure for protected departments and the strengthening of the role of representatives is also a priority in this area. I would add that measures in the field of institutional accommodation of older convicts are under way. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities supports the functioning of the State Preventive Mechanism, which improves the situation in individual and specific cases. When we are familiar with inappropriate practices in the framework of specific supervision at the Ministry, we call on the institution to remedy all violations, while at the same time they must report on the removal of these violations. In short, to improve the situation we follow the recommendations, we also follow the institutions that actually implement these recommendations and report on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Simona Repar Bornšek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, receives the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. In Slovenia we have five separate psychiatric hospitals and a psych ward with a forensic psychiatric unit within UKC Maribor. The State Preventive Mechanism conducts two to three inspections a year, and this means that there is no department in our country under the special supervision of a psychiatric hospital that the State Preventive Mechanism would not visit again and again in ten years. In 2018, he did not detect cases of torture or cruel treatment within the meaning of the Convention, but drew attention to some bad practices, such as the inappropriate placement of persons in protected departments and the inappropriate use of specific protective measures. On the basis of the warnings and the call from the Ministry of Health, the Republic Psychiatric Expert Commission has already issued updated guidelines for the application of specific psychiatric protective measures in 2018, and we therefore expect that the irregularities identified will be resolved. In 2018 they were visited by the State Preventive Mechanism of Psychiatric Hospital Ormož, Idrija and Begunje. When we notice that some of the Ombudsman’s recommendations are repeated, we seek to eliminate them within our sphere of competence. That is how we decided this year to submit one report through our representatives for consideration at a meeting of the Institute's Council. The psychiatric hospital Begunje placed this point in its June session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Andrej Katič, Minister of Justice, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you. At the beginning of this year, the Justice Committee has already discussed the issue of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, where it has become thoroughly aware of how the activities are going. We presented both the new building or the upgrading of the women's prison in Iga and also the new construction of the prison in Ljubljana or Dobronja, and I am pleased to say that the government has listened to and approved additional quotas for the employment of judicial officers, about 50 proceedings. Some are already completed, some are still in progress, and this would help, or how important, is the work of the Administration for Probation, which has also marked the first year of operation and also means some sort of unloading, as far as prison issues are concerned. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Sandy Churin, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Let me point out once again that the police have consistently taken into account the findings, concerns and recommendations of the Ombudsman or the State Preventive Mechanism when visiting police stations and taking the approach to remedying the identified shortcomings. The police are also well aware of the purpose and way in which the State preventive mechanism operates. They were particularly informed about this in 2018 in police training, where the issue of reducing errors was also addressed when the Ombudsman visited police stations. These reports are also carried out as part of the provision of professional assistance in police units. With regard to the procedures for the adoption of applications for international protection, I can ensure that the Ministry of Internal Affairs implements procedures for the adoption of applications for international protection as soon as possible, which, of course, depends on the number of foreigners waiting for the adoption of a request, spatial capacity and human resources, including external operators. The advantage is, of course, in accordance with the law of vulnerable categories of persons. In view of the adoption in 2018 of the Contingent Plan of the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure accommodation and care in the event of an increase in the number of applicants for international protection and the implementation of procedures for international protection, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia first activated the second phase of the contingent plan in 2018 and, in January 2019, the third phase of the contingent plan, as the Ministry of Interior exceeded the quota of applications which can be dealt with in a smooth manner with by regular capacity. 32 additional posts and additional facilities and equipment are foreseen. Currently, the Ministry is in the phase of implementing additional employment procedures and renting spatial capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Svetina, as the proposer, has the word of the Ombudsman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government! Thank you very much for the debate, for addressing the report of the State Preventive Mechanism. At this point, however, I would like once again to thank the NGOs involved in the work of the State Preventive Mechanism and, in fact, the response that might have been made at the previous point when we considered the report of the Ombudsman was expected from the authorities and the holders of public powers. So in this place, thank you once again to all those who come across here and actually respect what we recommend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing there's no interest. This concludes the debate. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 1st A item on the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 1st A Dot of the Day, that is to the defensive proposal of the Law on the Intervention of Persons of the Kind of Brown Bear (URSUS ARCTOS) and the Volka (Canis Lupus) of the Nature, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Mark Mavre, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! Over the past few weeks we have witnessed a broader debate on the management of bears and wolves in Slovenia. Despite the intervention of the Ministry of Environment and Space, or Arsa, with eight oral decisions to take the bear and the decision to take the two wolves in the most critical area of Block and Los Vale, it stepped up and led to the law on the intervention of the brown bear and the wolf. To begin with, I would like to point out that a functioning large beast management system has already been established in Slovenia, but because of the increased number of meetings and attacks, there has been an intervention proposal for the law. This is designed to ensure that the brown bear and the wolf population are reintroduced as quickly as possible and, of course, taking into account other measures contained in the strategic documents. As we regularly monitor the condition of wolves and bears, we know that both bears and wolves are currently in favourable protective condition. The proposed law is based on exceptions to the protection of strictly protected species as defined in Article 16(1) of the Habitat Directive. These are exceptions allowing for the removal of serious damage to property, the interests of the public benefit and the limited selective and controlled removal of certain specimens of these species from nature. That this law complies with the conditions required by the Habitat Directive for the implementation of the exceptional recovery of protected species from nature, three conditions have been tested. First condition — damage. The increase in damage has been demonstrated since the number of harmful cases doubled compared to the same period last year. In addition, we also have repeated damage to the wolves, which could not be prevented even with the permanent presence of herd owners in pastures. The feeling of security in areas with a greater density of bears and wolves is overwhelming, as evidenced by the doubling of calls to 113 and public protests. The direction of the Administrative Court, which has abolished the annex to the ordinary decision on withdrawal, says that the removal of large beasts must be more closely linked to the actual areas of attacks on herds or threats to human beings. This law is shown in the first and second annexes by the data of the Institute of Forests of Slovenia, as it shows the link between the harmful cases and the locations of intervention calls and the locations of the intended shootings in hunting areas. It is also important to mention that from the media, the mayors' warnings and various petitions we can understand that the social acceptability limit of the brown bear and the wolf is falling. This is also confirmed by a public opinion poll on the bear carried out under the Life Dinalp Bear project. The selectivity and limited withdrawal are justified by the proposed restrictions on the extent and spatial distribution of the withdrawal, as well as by the burdensome structure of the withdrawal of the bear. The conditions for firing are also laid down that the shooting should be carried out as a matter of priority in the vicinity of settlements and where harmful cases occur more frequently. In the case of the wolf, this is reinforced by additional requirements for the determination of recovery areas related to recurrent damage. In order not to disrupt the structure of wolf tracks, however, the law provides that younger animals are primarily taken from pastures where damage occurs, with a view to raising fear in wolf’s troupe to man. The withdrawal shall be stopped when five adult animals have been shot. Seizure is also not allowed in forested areas of fishing for specific purposes in order to protect the structure of the tropic. In addition, the intervention law specifically states that in any case it is necessary to take into account the cumulative effects of the implementation of all nature withdrawals together in such a way as not to affect the favourable conservation status of the species. The second condition that has been met is preventive measures. In the area of preventive measures, all satisfactory mitigation options are exhausted as owners act as good managers. The Ministry of Environment and Space through Ars and other projects co-financed the purchase of materials to prevent further damage. However, the COPP measures shall provide for funds intended to reimburse the costs incurred by the farmer due to the increased work caused by the protection of the herd against large-scale attacks. The third condition is animal welfare, since, as I have already mentioned, bears and wolves are, according to the latest data, in a favourable protective state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. As a mother's work, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u108	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 14th emergency meeting, on 17. 6. 2019 as a parent working body, the proposal for an intervention law on the collection of specimens of brown bear and wolf from nature submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space, like today, presented in more detail the main objectives and solutions pursued by the proposal for a law. The representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food pointed out that various preventive measures have been implemented within the Ministry for the co-existence of domestic animals with animals for which significant financial resources have also been allocated in recent years. These measures, however, are only one of the mechanisms and therefore support the management of beast populations by maintaining their number at a level that allows for sufficient genetic diversity and human interaction and the conservation or development of agricultural activities. The Ministry of Agriculture shall support the proposal of the law and shall draw attention to the provisions of Articles 8 and 9 of the first paragraph setting out the area within which the priority shooting of a bear or a wolf takes place. Hunters are expected to find it difficult to assess exactly where the boundaries of the target areas are, and therefore unintended errors and violations of these areas could occur. Consequently, it proposes to exempt the conditions set out in Articles 8 and 9 of the law from the provision of penalties for offenders. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service raised in particular concerns about the compatibility of the proposed law with Articles 2, 3, 23 and 25 of the Constitution. The representative of the Council of State expressed support for the bill and, among other things, warned that future management of these beasts would have to be more systematic and towards maintaining the number of beasts at a sustainable level that ensures human interaction. Members from coalition parliamentary groups expressed their support for the bill in the debate. In their view, it is the basis for solving the increasingly difficult situation in the last few months, when the number of animal attacks on domestic animals has increased significantly. They recalled that the Government was also solving the situation with intervention law because the Administrative Court had suspended the implementation of a government decree on the removal of brown bear and wolf specimens from nature, which probably contributed to the situation on the ground. In particular, the debaters from the New Slovenia and SDS groups have highlighted that the intervention law solves the situation backwards, and it is therefore necessary to prepare and adopt the management plan and the withdrawal decision immediately after the adoption of the intervention law. The SDS Group drew attention to the proposed high fines proposed in the draft law for possible violators when taking the beast. Following the legislative procedure, they announced that an amendment should be tabled to reduce penalties for offenders. In the Levica Group, the population of bears and wolves is actually increasing, but official data show that the number of harmful cases does not increase in proportion to population growth, but even declines. In their view, too little has been done to protect against beast attacks by preventive measures by the State over the last period. Beast attacks could be successfully prevented in particular by setting up fences and would also help to build safe composters and dumpsters in areas of brown bear appearance. In the context of the vote, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 and to the new Articles 12a and 12b. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented to us by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u110	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Because of poor animal management in recent years, wolves, bears, and jackals have multiplied uncontrollably. As a result, wolves and bears have changed their behaviour and have begun to come from the forests, their primary and basic habitat. The result is frequent attacks and massacres of domestic animals, which are already on pastures this year. Farmers and livestock owners from Block, Idrijski, Cerkljanski, Ilirskobistrski, from Kočev feel powerless and threatened in all attacks. Animal attacks occur virtually daily, so it is impossible to prevent attacks because wolves are accustomed to preying on poultry, colts, and calves. The wolves have changed the way they behave. In order to prevent damage, an intervention law must be adopted. In New Slovenia we welcome the preparation of the intervention law, but due to the warnings of the Hunting Union and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, we have tabled amendments to Articles 8, 9, 12a and 12b, because legislative solutions have so complicated the law themselves and are so high in fines that the actual withdrawal will not be possible. But hunters will not even be able to get close to the forest because of the high depths of the forest. That is why we are counting on the support of our amendments in New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present to us the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u112	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today, after an emergency procedure, we are considering the proposal for an intervention law on the collection of specimens of brown bear and wolf from nature. The main reason for the adoption of the law has been the damage caused to farmers by the overcrowded population of brown bear and wolf in recent months. Their population will be managed in nature by the removal of 11 wolves and 200 brown bears. Overcrowded wolves and brown bears, with their presence near pastures and habitats, endanger the population and their property. As I could see, only wolves took 72 heads this year, 19 cattle, 15 horses, two other domestic animals and one donkey. The data show that farmers are rightly concerned about the changed way the beast behaves and approaches to the village or to man. They wonder if they will have to abandon farming and leave pastures to cultivation because of wolf attacks on their pastures. Farmers without livestock pasture on mountains and meadows would suffer untold damage. In the eyes, however, the fact that a changed behavior of a beast poses a potential danger to people who do not hope to move freely at times. This is especially true for areas of the Loška Valley, Block, Illyrian Bistrica and Crassa. It is known that big beasts, such as wolves, brown bears and rice, are protected by the EU Habitats Directive. The EU policy of these great beasts protects and is, among other things, important for maintaining the role of predators in the food chain and the balance in nature. Thus, state authorities can only take animals out of nature under certain conditions. Such conditions are, for example, a threat to public safety and serious damage to livestock farming. Both specific reasons have also occurred in recent cases, and we welcome the decision and swift action of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture. It is interesting, however, that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia has for two consecutive years ruled that all the conditions for derogations as permitted by that Directive have not been met. Last April of this year. That is why bears and wolves have multiplied in our midst and changed their natural behavior, and farming has also made farming more difficult. The Government governs the removal of beasts from nature every year by decrees, but the shooting was not carried out because of the decisions of the Administrative Court. Nevertheless, the Government has not calmed down and has implemented, through the Ministry of Agriculture, a number of preventive measures for the coexistence of domestic animals and beasts. As we were able to hear on Monday on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the Agriculture Ministry of Protection has allocated over €80,000 in one year. In doing so, I stress that we also advocate the principle of the coexistence of domestic animals and beasts in the SAB Group, but not at the expense of farmers and threats to the safety of the population. Therefore, we would like the competent ministry to draw up a management plan and a decree on the withdrawal of the brown bear and the wolf for the period from 2019 to 2020. We must be aware that the intervention law has already been established and the acute state of the beast population needs to be managed more effectively in the future. We are convinced that our farmers are accustomed to interacting with beasts in a way that they can farm normally and that when they approach them, the beast withdraws. It's cohabiting. The beast and man in his bibian environment. However, when such a balance is broken, we must respond in an appropriate and, above all, timely manner. I am pleased that we have also heard hunters play a key role in the drafting of the bill. They carry out their task in a timely and conscientious manner, so it seems good that we have softened the provisions of shooting a bear on a radio of 1,000 feet [500 m] or a wolf in the immediate vicinity of pastures. We trust the representatives of the Hunting Union of Slovenia that it is difficult on the ground to determine the priority area of the allowable shooting. And since there is a human factor, there can always be a mistake. To conclude, I would like to reiterate my desire to regulate the population of overcrowded jackals in Crassus. They attack mainly young and newborn grains and deer and cause damage on farms and in the forest. Given that the jackals in Slovenia are a hunting and protected species, their withdrawal from nature also requires a decree. I believe that we will also successfully bridge this challenge in the future. I'm counting on it. In the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the proposal for an intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! We have before us a review of the so-called intervention law on the collection of specimens of brown bear and wolf species, which is based on the pressures of Slovenian farmers, who are virtually daily faced with the mass killings of their herds caused by bears and wolves. The fact is, this topic is extremely emotionally colored. On the one hand, we have people who advocate animal protection and rights, on the other hand, farmers and residents of areas where wolves and bears are regular visitors. We cannot close our eyes until there are virtually no more uninhabited landscapes in our country. People are increasingly kicking animals out of their environment, which means that animals are running out of space to stay and eat. If we do not build houses in the middle of the woods, we certainly plunder the natural good of Slovenian forests and thus reduce the possibility of survival in their environment. Now is the time for you to look at how people from the woods take away or take away whole buckets of blueberries, which, despite the ban, are still picked up with accessories, forest strawberries, and the sponge harvest season has already begun. Not to mention the fall locusts when it's gathering bone, when it's literally deserted for the human forest. That is why animals are increasingly coming to where food is easier to obtain – this is the proximity of our homes and pastures, where the predator will surely find at least one animal that will certainly not be able or able to escape the predator. And since bears, wolves, jackals, foxes come near our homes, we can imagine what it's like to have a family with small children who don't dare let them play around their homes, because you never know what kind of uninvited guest can come looking for the easiest available food in our dumpsters at that time. Even a farmer who manages cattle and poultry comes to his flock with fear every day because he does not know what look awaits him. Not only from a financial point of view but also from an emotional point of view, for in some ways most of them are attached to their breeding animals. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we all agreed, no matter what view we have of the need for extraordinary animal disposal, that animal management should be systematically regulated on the basis of professional views rather than populist views. This intervention law, which is before us, is certainly only a fire-fighting action, but it certainly does not represent a long-term solution. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that at a meeting of the committee by affected farmers and hunters there was no excitement about the need to take away so many bears and wolves. For it is clear to all of us that the animal is not guilty because it wants only to survive, and that it kills breeding animals not for entertainment, but for food. It would be ideal to find such a solution that such a large number of bears and wolves would not have to be shot, but that they could easily be moved or that farmers could protect their herds in a way that would not require large-scale fences and fences. Members of the Desus Group will support the bill because we are aware that there is currently no other option, although we would like to find another option, a more humane solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u116	Dear Vice President, all present! In February this year, in the Slovenian National Party, we reminded the Ministry responsible for agriculture, forestry and nutrition, with a question from the Members of Parliament, that it is imperative to set up vultures. It is a place where food of animal and plant origin is laid for the purpose of gaining and feeding bears or other beasts. The answer from the Ministry was that the bears were not planned. It is only this year that hunting areas are to be identified as well as vultures or feeding grounds intended for the sighting of bears. The animal will always go where the food is. The feeding grounds and vultures deep in the forest would be the best prevention to keep the beast away from humans. It is therefore necessary to resist European bureaucrats who, by means of their legislation, prohibit outdoor feeding of animals of animal origin protein. When the food in the forest runs out, the beasts come close to the village. The next preventive measure would be to buy fences or sheepdogs. It would also be very important for villagers living close to the forest to lock the dumpsters in iron structures. I doubt that farmers are taking advantage of all the preventive measures available. The question is also whether the country helps farmers to protect them to an appropriate extent. We advocate the view that we should first apply all preventive measures. I wonder if it hasn't happened in the past, but it wasn't an extraordinary point. The shooting of a beast is supposed to be an emergency. The bear is also present at Pokluka, Jelovica and Mezaklja, and there are no problems. They have a sheep’s ball in Jezerska every year, and no bear comes but many people. In Notranjska and Kočevska, in the Belokran region, just by the forest, at least according to the farm logic, small grains cannot be cultivated. It's like putting a liter of bread, homemade bread, and a karst prosciutto in front of a hungry man. Everyone would have served. A hungry animal also serves itself. But it's about fear. Also, any Ljubljanaan or Mariborian is the fear of a beast such as pitbulus, bulmastifs, similar animals. The owners don't even have them on a leash, let alone give them a clue. And no one's asking for their shot. We support the proposal to remove the beasts from the nearby village, but in a different way. We used to have a president who didn't need the law, but he took care of the appropriate shooting of the beast himself. Today we have a president who takes pictures between flowers and publishes his photos on Instagram. We believe that, for all the beasts that experts consider excessive, we should survive as much as possible. Of course – sell. They could be sold to those countries or zoos that would be welcome. If we decide to fire, then the shot could be offered to wealthy foreigners, and they could pay a fat price for the shot. However, this money could be spent on preventive measures to protect the change. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the EU funded the SloWolf project, the protection and monitoring of the protection status of the popular wolf in Slovenia, worth €1 million. And what are the effects of this project? NGOs clean up money and there's no effect. The Ministry's paying for the wolf's insurance, and now it's proposing a shoot-out. We will not support such a proposal in the Slovenian National Party because we believe that there are many more suitable alternatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Over the past few weeks, I've been getting a lot of calls from the field, calling me as well as the MP and the hunter, but there's something that needs to be done about wolves and bears. When I saw this law, I began to hear the words of the coalition Members and of the ministries in the last five years since I have been here. Why do you usually reject the law of the Slovenian Democratic Party? Because it's not systemic. Now I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, whether the law you brought to the table today is systemic. Is it? After the state has planned something on the basis of professional opinions, plans something, prepares a performance, accepts it by the Government, and because you haven't consulted some non-governmental organisation, it falls in court. The shooting of wolves and bears is not in the same number as the experts said. Not hunters or foresters or farmers, but experts who monitor it. Everyone admits that in Slovenia we have practically the best monitoring in Europe, as far as tracking animals, is concerned, including game populations. And when all of this falls, then you come in with an intervention law, with a few articles where you order the shooting of 200 bears or 175 bears and 11 wolves. Is that a system law? The same could be said in the Slovenian Democratic Party today, even though the law needs to be done, we will not support your law because your law is not systematic. But since we're constructive because we know what's going on in the field, we're going to support this marriage today. We will also support all the amendments tabled by the New Slovenia Group, including the one that fines the wrong shot. Because this fine is not necessary in this law because you already have a fine for improper firing and sanctions in the Wildlife and Hunting Act. This law states exactly how an individual or a legal person, in this case a hunting family, is to be sanctioned if an improper shooting occurs. And such penalties, from 20,000 to 60,000 euros, after also 3,000 euros for an individual, look, these are draconian penalties. Since there is an urgent need to do something, and this is written in this law, we cannot then sanction those who are going to make the shot, so that if they do not do all this as you have imagined, they will pay the fabulous sums. Hunting is a hobby, hunting is a voluntary job, and hunting has to be paid. From weapons to all equipment, to bullets, to maintenance of this weapon, to membership for the hunting family, to gasoline, when we ride on hunting grounds, three times, four times a week we do rounds. It's all voluntary. And you pay a lot if you want to be a hunter in our country. Finally, the only thing you have in mind is that you can buy meat directly from a hunting family, such as a gross pound of deer for about four euros, not in a store where the price is 17, 18 euros. I don't shoot for trophies. I hunt for meat. Most hunters in Slovenia are like this and we are wrong when you say we want to shoot everyone for the trophies. Far from it. Who's in charge right now to repopulate the lynx? Because it's dying. Not because of the shooting, but as the Hunting Union of Slovenia has proven, due to mating in relation. When this was proved, the NGOs did not say, we were wrong when we said it was due to the shooting, but it was because of the kinship. The Hunting Association is currently the main initiator and is involved in the settlement of the drawing. In our country, we have really come so far that the Hunting Union is becoming and is what must be – the guardian of animals. But of course, everything in the direction of cohabitation and listening to those who face harm in the field. And because the damage is what they are, and because we believe that the shot is the only one who can maintain balance in nature, we will support the amendments of New Slovenia. Even if they don't, we'll support the marriage, because we know it's an acute thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Large beasts are difficult groups of animal species in terms of conservation and management of populations. Large cross-border areas exist and their needs may lead to a conflict with people's activities, such as agriculture, hunting and tourism. In the mid-20th century, the great beasts of Europe were on the brink of extinction, and in recent decades they have recovered significantly. They live not only in the wild but also in the forest cultural landscape. In our forest beasts are rich in natural habitat and are an important element of our natural heritage. The wolf and the bear are at the top of the food web with an important role in this pyramid. By classifying them as protected species, we also protect all other animals in the forest, and the right balance is important. In other parts of the world, beasts are often kept in large national parks and reserves, where access is restricted to people and there is no possibility in Europe, as existing parks and reserves are too small to provide animals with adequate living space. The living space of a bear, a lynx, or a wolf can measure from hundreds to thousands of square miles, so human interaction is the only option for the survival of large beasts. Experience shows that sharing a common space between great beasts and man is possible. Traditional measures, such as protection of livestock with night fences, electricity grids in suitable areas, shepherd dogs and shepherds, significantly facilitate human and animal coexistence and dialogue between stakeholders and cooperation between neighbouring countries is important. We want to improve the management of large animals, which can be achieved by exchanging successful approaches to prevent and reduce conflicts between them and human beings and by improving the system for preventing damage and compensation for damage. Above all, we want to ensure the harmonious coexistence of people and great beasts in the future. The density of the wolf and bear population in Slovenia has increased considerably in recent years, so it is necessary to ensure its regulation, which is taken care of by the Government with individual decrees. The last decision on the measures taken to recover specimens of a type of brown bear from nature was retained by the Court, which led to the failure of the population to regulate itself and so to a large extent to multiply. This has led to burning problems with large animals and serious damage to farmers in particular. However, the need to ensure public security must also be recognised. The purpose of the bill is to intervene in the population of the brown bear and the wolf, because there is no more effective option to solve the current situation, so we will support the proposal in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The intervention law that we have before us today is being considered and adopted for the purpose of regulating the beast population in Slovenia. The density of both the brown bear and the wolf has increased considerably lately. This, however, poses a direct threat to our inhabitants and, of course, to their property. As population density increases, the pattern of behavior of these beasts changes, which means that these beasts are increasingly entering our settlements and people. By regulating the population of the brown bear and the wolf, we need to start as soon as possible, especially because of the situations that are happening to us and the problems that are emerging. In particular, problems arise from the daily damage of farmers living in areas where these two species of beasts are most frequently or continuously retained. The law lays down the conditions for the removal of animals from nature and also the extent to which it is determined not to endanger the state of the population. The shooting of both beasts will take place as a matter of priority around the settlements and in areas where harmful cases occur most frequently. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have some concerns about the decision to exempt wolves from hunting with special meaning and in the division of the quota of bears by severity category, in particular in the category of up to 100 kilograms. In our Group of Members, we welcome solutions that will improve the current situation, but we are aware that the population needs to be managed in a direction that preserves the number of beasts at a level that ensures human interaction. Proper management of the beast population and various alternative solutions will lead us to co-existence and, above all, to the safety of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mr Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u124	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members! The present situation is due to the decision of the Administrative Court to abolish the annex to the Government decree for 2017, 2018 and 2019, which sets out the scope and spatial distribution of the withdrawal of the brown bear and the wolf from nature. In doing so, it is important to emphasise that each year the annex to the decree is prepared on the basis of consultation with the expert. For 2019, stakeholders reached a very broad consensus and it is not clear why NGOs are suing the decree if it is prepared on a professional basis. They are equally surprised by the judgment of the Court. In particular, for 2019 when the Court repealed the decision and returned it to the competent Ministry for a retrial, the reasons for the discharge were not sufficiently substantiated. Once again, I stress that the very determination of scope and spatial regulation is the product of an expert debate. Mayors, farmers, and other residents of local communities who feel threatened by beast attacks warned of the burning problem. The matter even went so far as to start signing a petition by frightened and affected citizens. The daily damage caused by attacks on poultry and other domestic animals by the wolf and bear to the court broke out at the bottom and the government was forced to propose an intervention law. The purpose of the intervention law is to initiate the settlement of the population as soon as possible, in particular due to the acute situation and problems of citizens caused by large beasts every day. The management of large animals alone is complex, in particular due to biological complexity and social importance. Therefore, management itself includes various sets of measures: preventive measures for the prevention of damage, compensation system, control of feeding, intervention group, awareness-raising and others. The removal of specimens from nature is therefore the last step if the other measures do not have the intended effect. Taking into account all the measures already taken, it is therefore necessary to conclude that, in order to manage the population with such a high density of the target, we cannot achieve it on the basis of other measures. Even if there are doubts about the future fate of the law, let me stress that the damage caused by the bear and the wolf is objectively demonstrated. Indeed, the data show, in particular for 2019, that in spite of a number of measures to protect property, harmful cases are increasing. Data from the Institute of Forests show that during the bear the damage occurred from 30 to 61 in comparison with the same time period last year and from 62 to 111 in the case of the wolf. Accordingly, the balance between whether the country is a good hunter or a bad shepherd makes no sense. Regardless of the possible concerns raised in relation to the law in the public eye, we believe that it is essential at this point to prevent further damage and danger. We are aware that shooting is always a sensitive topic and, after all, an unwanted option. Unfortunately, it's the only option right now. Since we can solve the burning problem that fills our media space daily only by adopting the intervention law that is before us today, we will support the proposal of the law in the Modern Centre. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will be presented as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! This law, as you hear from all sides, comes with very pompous words. The beast is getting more and more, threatening people, endangering children, causing enormous damage and so on. First, before we decide how to deal with this law, we need to take a look at the facts. First of all, as far as people's threats are concerned. Here I think I've heard quite a few of these views, especially about children's threats. It is important to ask how dangerous forest animals are. Statistics in Slovenia are next. In all of history, we don't have one case of a wolf attack on a human being. As far as the bear is concerned, we have nothing but two cases a year of conflict with man. However, we have the most dangerous forest animal, which is a tick where the density of boreliosis carried by the tick was already 256 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2008, which means that the bench infected with a potentially deadly disease already by 5,000 people in this country. So when we fear a bear and sow fear of a bear, we have to ask ourselves which animals are truly dangerous in the forest and against which children really need to be protected. Another time. These stories have been circulating all the time. Now we're hearing here that the beasts have changed their behavior and that they're getting closer to the village. I've been Googled some articles from the past few years. You'll find this practically every year. In 2003, here, I read an article in the Journal entitled Bears are already playing almost on the road. And then the bears were more than once smaller than they are now. But someone noticed the bear and started this big panic, the bear is coming, something terrible is going to happen. But it's true that, as I've shown on the numbers, it's more of a fantasy than a fact matter. Next. All of you are warning that the number of damage is increasing. Here we need to consider a slightly longer period of time and the number of beasts. In 2010 there were 600 bears in Slovenia, 600 bad cases; in 2012 in Slovenia there were 700 bears, 700 bad cases; in 2018 there were 1000 bears, 500 bad cases. So from ratio 1 to 1, the number of bears : the number of damage, we have reached ratio 2 to 1, the number of bears : the number of damage. So the damage does not increase according to the increase in the number of bears, but vice versa, the scissors have spread in recent years. What's the trick? It's quite simple. Farmers have started to use protective measures more effectively. Earlier, in a negative sense, it was said in one of the positions of the parliamentary groups that last year alone, the country earmarked as much as €80,000 for fences and electric shepherds. Look, this is a very small number. The damage was about 250 000 euros a year, 250 000 euros a year a bear and the fences are falling, and they can even be completely destroyed. One of the greatest experts for wolves in our company, Mitja Krofel, who participated in the SloWolf project, is also a hunter himself, said on the case of pastures under Snow White, where sometimes they had to spend as much as 100,000 euros a year to compensate for the damage caused by the wolf, and he said when we put the electric shepherds there and put the shepherd dogs there, they were destroyed, they were gone. So, protective cases are completely simple and, given the potential damage, they're not expensive, but they're extremely cheap. In the end, however, the question must be asked whether the shooting is a solution. I'd like to say this first. At 200 bears and 11 wolves, as planned to be shot, hunters shoot about 40,000 deer a year, 7,000 deer, 8,000 wild pigs. These are statistics for last year. For this year, the blast has increased further, which means that about a third of these populations are shot each year. And it may be necessary to ask whether this may not be the very reason. To shoot off too much primary food for wolves and bears, and so sometimes they come to your pastures. And so on. If we start shooting wolves, is it not dangerous to tropics — they are in the tropics and are self-organised, self-regulated — they break down and the possibility of attacks will increase and not diminish. We're going to vote against it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Since I see it's an interest, I'm opening an application for debate. We have nine Members and Members of Parliament who have been reported. First, he gets the word, Mr. Boris Doblekar, and then Iva Dimic gets ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! I am pleased that we finally have such a temporary solution; which is of course an intervention nature that is not systemic and which is created only by the great pressure of the public, especially farmers and all those who have been affected by the great harm. We will use this intervention shot to put out a big fire, which has been on the rise for quite some time, but it is urgent to note that we must be very careful to move forward, because I do not believe that this intervention shot will be what the Government wants or what we all think it will be. It must be said that these beasts are absolutely too many everywhere in our forests and meadows and villages. It is my opinion that if they can have such a low number of these beasts in, for example, neighbouring countries such as Austria and Italy, but if we keep saying that these beasts should somehow be properly distributed across Europe, I do not know why we should carry such a large share. However, there is no need for others, despite the fact that there are regulations. I don't know why some of them apply, but others don't. As long as we have as many of these beasts, neither will cohabiting as we think we will have in the future. The problem is not just wolves and bears, we know that the problem is also jackals and we will have to look further at the solution in this area. In addition, I would point out that when we execute this shot - if the hunters do so, of course, as long as we ensure that they do not have too many obstacles to the shooting themselves - that is to say, how far away from the settlements or from the house will they be able to shoot, whether there will be a wolf on the pasture or just by the pasture and so on - as long as we are causing many bureaucratic obstacles to have as high fines as has been warned, I do not believe that the hunters will be able to carry out this intervention shot at all. I think they're going to be pretty worried about it, and some people are going to hope to do it. But when this shot is carried out, or when the beast is said to be scared, they will go elsewhere. Now we keep mentioning Crassus, Blocks, Kočevje and so on, where you are actually the most concentrated wolf and bear, but do not talk about the fact that there are many bears, more and more in Zasavje, in Posavska, zasavska hill. In Dolach, Gabrovka, Polšnik, bears are seen daily against the Podkuma. I have already pointed out this to the Infrastructure Committee not once, repeatedly. There will also be more and more of these beasts, and there will already be a lot of damage — on the bales, on the bees, on the farm for wildlings in the woods. In addition, children must be transported by school trips literally from the door of the house where the child lives to the door of the primary school, which, of course, costs a lot. We know these transports aren't cheap. Many children would walk in nature, in the woods, as we used to walk, but today they no longer hope. For the last time, I also pointed out one example, when a school bus drove across the Sopota River in the morning, two bears stood in front of a bus, the bus had to stop and the children enjoyed it like an animal garden in this scene, otherwise on a safe bus. I think these are some signs, some warnings, which mean that in the future, in other areas, we're going to have to take a closer look at how many of these beasts are moving, where they're going, how they reproduce. This will have to be taken very seriously when this programme is under way. I hope that in the future the government will have more free hands in this decision, how many of these beasts we will have, and that experts such as the Institute for Forests, hunters and so on will be very closely involved; and a little less diverse environmental organisations. I have already said that I have nothing against them, and it is also true that they must be respected and taken into account; but that they are so involved in these things as they are in the beast, and with their influence even affect the court, that then the court will decide and prevent the shooting and the population of the beast from multiplying, and this does not seem right to me. There will probably need to be some more words and words in the first place for people, residents, citizens, citizens of Slovenia in areas where these beasts are already very large; in the second instance, then for all experts who know about them and who have the appropriate education to do so. Not that they'll only decide who likes a bear. They may like a bear that is still small or two or three; they probably like the bear a little less because it is already a little more dangerous. In fact, I have not heard the case of you going from various environmental organisations to the field to these farmers who have been harmed. Over 100 domestic animals for which hard work is needed, even in these areas where this is taking place, in hill farms, in small farms where people are trying not to grow, should be very hard. I don't see these people from all kinds of environmental organisations in these farmers, where damage is caused. They don't even come to comfort them, which even in their programs are beautifully written to take care of this and that; they don't come to talk to them, or visit them, or bring them any money to cover the damage, nor come to help them set up a fence around the ball, pastures, barns, hens, beavers, and so on. So these farmers have to do it themselves. I don't see these people in there, and that makes me very sad. That's why I've said many times that we should do this hand in hand, all together and find some consensus, that we'll go one smart way forward, that we won't do things as stupid as we've done before, and we've left this beast population to the point that they're literally threatening us every day. I don't even agree with that suggestion that you buy expensive trash cans, lock them up, I don't know how, on the code, and we're gonna put the brick on the top so that the bear doesn't shake it down. Let us be realistic, life, human, and give priority to people, farmers, those who work; and in the forests, we have as many beasts as Slovenia has. If there are six or more bears in Austria according to some data, they have them, some have them in the zoo, the forest is very, very hilly, the mountain, I don't know what the difference is between Slovenia and Austria; but we have to have over a thousand bears, and I really don't know. And I don't think that cohabiting in the future is enough if we have this number, so I suggest that these beasts, my proposal, as little as possible, let's say around a hundred would be more than enough for all of Slovenia, and fifteen wolves. I don't know why we should be jackals. Let's be smart, let's think ahead, and let's take some smart measures, too, so that we don't sit in the National Assembly every year and take some intervention shots. So much for me at once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Iva Dimic. But get ready for Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that the call for an extraordinary meeting is due to the situation of the municipalities of Blok, Ilirska Bistrica, Cerkljanska, also Vransko, Gorenjska, Poljanje Valley. I could also list which areas. In fact, it was also possible that the Ministry of Agriculture decided at that time to draw up an intervention law on the collection of specimens of wolf and brown bear, which Minister Pivec is taking over the Ministry of Environment and Space. And that, a few days before the extraordinary meeting, he was admitted to the government and confirmed. The government is aware that in the past there has been poor management of animals and game that there has been no regulation. Despite all the debates I have received, a lot of data, I still don't have one piece of data, and today we're saying that this can be blocked so that all of this can be protected. I would like to know what the estimates and data are, how many beasts Slovenia can carry on such territory at all. We know that there are areas in Slovenia where there is no autonomy of a bear to appear there; however, it appears. This was just on the day of the meeting in Vransk, where it also occurred on the white day of the attack on bovine animals. It seems to me that we simply want to meet everything too much, I don't know, maybe the European Union. I have heard from the debate that Europe does not have a reservation, that it does not have a threshold; perhaps it wants to meet the European Union so that perhaps Slovenia will become a reservation. At this point, the words of the coalition MPs really disturbed me, and it simply coincides with everything we have experienced in Slovenia in the past. Slovenia cannot build hydroelectric power plants because we have different regulations. Austria and Croatia can. Slovenia does not have wind power plants, although Portugal, Spain, Croatia, Austria, Germany, Denmark, Sweden does not have them, because again I do not know why. [[…]] I really don't know where it's going, I really hope there's no agreement on what European reservation, about green Slovenia. I want a green Slovenia, but I want us to have a nice, normal life here, so that wildlings can rule normally, that man is above the wild and more important than animals. In Novi Slovenija we really proposed four amendments, which were re tabled because the original bill was drafted, such as Article 8 – calibrations for the shooting of a bear. Then the parliamentary groups tabled this and said there must be conditions. I don't understand why there can't be guidance, because if there are conditions, it's narrower. Also, the President of the Slovenian Hunting Union, Mr Žerjav, said that they were surprised at the amendments; that hunters were willing to do so in their spare time and that sanctions were very high; the 410 euro penalty for a hunter was the lowest. I ask which hunter will even hope to enter the forest, to meet or to see a bear, because I believe that in all the sanctions imposed in the law, in Articles 12a and 12b, the simple law makes it so difficult that the withdrawal or disposal will not occur because it will not be possible to manage and identify. On the other hand, I do not know why all these high sanctions should be recorded in every single law. We have a law governing the area of savagery and hunting, there are fines written in it, and I could simply say that it applies to hunters one marriage. They know what to hold on to; but not that hunters have any laws where it's broken, if you shoot it, it's there, they're there. I don't think that's lifelike. Above all, I would like to see anything happen to these withdrawals so that they do not get sanctions for any excess of 1.5 km outside the settlement. On the other hand, we need to take another look at why there has been an overcrowding of wild beasts. Simply because management was not effective. Since it is not currently accurate, we estimate how many clues there are in Slovenia. But if there are so many of these trails, you really don't know. The hunters themselves confirm that these tropics pass too often and that such cases occur when the wolves remain alone and then seek the easiest form of nutrition in human settlements. It was said that people were afraid and so forth that it was not true. I have always known that wolves and bears are somewhere in the forest, and I have fully respected and respected this even now, but I cannot accept that this is now practically 500 meters from the houses and that this is coming to our settlements. And if that wasn't true, then I don't think it would be necessary to escort hunters to primary schools or kindergartens when they take children for a walk in these villages. If that's really dangerous, I don't know why he's a hunter next to this group. Maybe to make them feel safer, but that's exactly what I'm hearing today, that these beasts aren't dangerous, that they might even be less dangerous than some house dog barking at a postman when he gets here. People are responsible for their livestock, they are responsible for their children, they are responsible for their own lives; because if they are not, there are also sanctions for them, even high ones; but it seems to me that there is a need to think about how to make it easier to co-exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Let's get the mags ready. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, over the last few years, the management of animals has not worked systematically. That's why we're here now. Someone missed something, to say the least. That is why we have now received such a situation, which we are solving in an interventional way. This intervention law essentially solves problems backwards, establishes; I hope it will establish if it is feasible. He'll be feasible by adopting our amendments, and I'll explain why later. And it's setting up a new coordinating platform. As soon as this intervention law is passed, which we are forecasting support, new documents will need to be adopted again, which will systematically regulate these matters. The adoption of documents will be insufficient, and this will also have to be realized in nature. For many months now, we have been watching, following the Slovenian media, what is happening in nature, what is happening in Slovenia, what harm the wolves cause, what damage is caused by the brown bear. Of course, it is possible to talk from a Ljubljana chair, perhaps a messenger’s chair, to read stories about a brown bear, about a cute bear, and about wolves, but in nature things are worrying. The one who wanted to heard the invitation to the joint meeting of the two competent committees requested by the Members of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's where we heard some sad stories. From this place thanks the Minister of Agriculture, I believe she has ordered that this intervention law be written down, it is not important now, we have it here today, in the second reading, and I hope that he will also receive support. The basic objectives to be achieved by this law are to intervene against the population of brown bear and wolf, thereby regulating the growth of the density of both populations. Today's situation can no longer be solved by shootings based on decisions, that is a fact; and the undeniable fact is that if the density of both populations does not immediately begin to be managed, they will continue to grow and very likely cause increasing damage in settlements as well. Now, not only is it that populations multiply abnormally, it's also clearly, as the profession says, some special behavior of the brown bear and the wolf. The smart country is the one that takes care of security. This is one of the key functions of the state. Security is of course a very broad concept, but in this case certainly the safety of people, especially children, who are disadvantaged in this; on the other hand, of course, the safety of agricultural production. This has slightly different production halls, such as the automotive industry. These production halls are under the lovely sky. And now specifically to the amendment proposed by Members of the New Slovenia to Article 8. We only want one thing, and that is that this intervention law will be feasible, because if I now read Article 8, the amended bill adopted by the Committee is Article 8. The original law contained the text or the title of the article: direction for shooting a bear. Then it was changed, I don't know why, the conditions for firing. We're still saying it's better to talk about guidelines. And now I read the first paragraph of the amended bill: the removal of bears, which are in whole or in part in the central area of the bear's habitat, is carried out in a lane of 1.5 kilometres around the settlements. Also in locations where harmful cases occur more frequently or in their immediate vicinity. Members and Members, let us now try to implement this first paragraph. It is said that the priority is to be carried out in a lane about a mile [1.5 km] around the settlements. Somewhere you see a brown bear, somewhere is a village, the village doesn't have the right geometric shape, it's not a circle, it's not a square, it's an irregular geometric shape; how are we going to measure this distance 1.5 kilometers now. Where from, from downtown? From some house on the edge? On what edge? The measuring strip is probably out of the question, the laser remote may be, but from where we're going to measure this concentric circle, which is not a concentric circle, which is a belt that is not a circle. Because the settlement is not the right circular shape. That's impossible. It's impossible. Here we prove and argue that if our amendment is not adopted, this intervention law will not be enforceable and we have done nothing because no one will risk paying as high a fine as it is prescribed. Why? Why would he pay 400 euros as much as the fine was prescribed? I really politely invite everyone to consider making this law operational. The kind that makes him work. And a similar matter is then referred to in Article 9, and that I will not contact you later, including in Articles 12a and 12.b, where we propose that both Articles be deleted. It is in no sense that in the intervention law, those responsible for the confiscation make this even more difficult and impose even higher fines than that provided for by the district law. Since the purpose of the intervention law is to ensure the effective and rapid removal of brown bear specimens from nature, the population, as I have already said several times, has become very many. And we have fines in another law, why would we add them to the intervention law now or maybe raise the fines. I really invite you to think about it, especially this 8th and 9th paragraphs. Otherwise, we claim, unless someone else proves to us that this law will not be enforceable and we have done nothing. And we will continue to watch these terrible slaughters of sheep, other animals caused by wolves on TV in Slovenian media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. But get ready for Mr. Predrag Baković. Here you go, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Today we pass an intervention law on the shooting of wild beasts. We know that the number of wolves and bears has increased significantly, so they are already entering villages among humans. Today, on the basis of this law, we will allow the professional seizure of up to 200 bears and 11 wolves to be carried out. A wolf and a man, a bear and a man can coexist separately, each in his own territory. But when she's too young, they start interfering with the territory of another. This is how it happens today that beasts interfere in the human space of life, and this is especially the case in Kočevska and Notranjska. The procedures for the management of animals are different – from soft measures to final withdrawal. It is important to me that all these procedures are based on the knowledge and decisions of the profession. More importantly, it is important that expert decisions can be made when necessary. So when the beasts are to be taken away, they must be taken away; when they must be protected, they must be protected. And that is why it is very important for me to have de-birocratic procedures at our disposal. It is not a difficult, insurmountable issue; it is a question of how we will effectively protect the public interest of the community, which will enable and ensure the smooth coexistence of man and beast in a way that they will not interfere with the space of another. Both ministers, the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Agriculture have explained and listed a number of measures taken by the ministries before the decision to take animals. These include engineering measures on infrastructure. On many of our sections highways we track the co-naturally arranged approaches and incomes for animals, so-called ecoducts. We plan and implement these in active projects. And these are especially suitable for the transition of beasts, animals and the preservation of their living space without jeopardizing human safety. This is very important to me as a construction engineer. We are also implementing a number of such measures through European means, and projects are needed to draw them out, which also facilitates the development of the engineering and environmental sectors. Allow me to emphasise that I very much welcome the commitment of both ministries to implement preventive relief measures in the future, and that is why we will also support the intervention law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Bakovic has the floor. But get ready for Mr. Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. If we are discussing an amendment to Article 8, this article changes the word of the conditions back to direction. This does not seem so problematic to me, nor does the first paragraph of Article 8, given that the 1.5km band around the settlements is defined. It also allows the possibility of shooting at sites where harmful cases occur and their immediate proximity. This means that if a farmer has a pasture in Kočevska far beyond the settlement, including a mile and a half outside the settlement, then in the first paragraph a fire is allowed there, if of course there are harmful cases. That's why I don't have a dispute. But I'd like to point out a complete intervention law. I believe that it is absolutely necessary and that it will in some way solve or at least try to resolve the situation that has arisen. In recent years, especially in Kočevsko-Ribnice, Notranjska, Primorska, Cerkljanska and Gorenjska, this has changed and, of course, worsened. In addition to attacking domestic animals, especially small animals, and recent cattle and horses, safety for human life is also put into great question. Surprising experts, of course, say that beasts come to and near villages because they are easily fed there. He's part of it, but they're forgetting something else. Everyone who lives in rural areas, like Ljubljanans, like Tivola, Rožnik and elsewhere, also likes to go to the woods, some for recreation, others for harvesting forest fruits, others for management of their forests and so on. This means that if the Ljubljanaers have all the right to go safely to these parks, and we rurals will somehow find ourselves, as is the case, I think it is an inequality and a different treatment of both. Another difference is known in Article 9 of the Act, paragraph 4, which states that in order to protect the structure of the wolf's tropics in the central area of the wolf's living space in the hunting grounds with a special purpose, these are Medved, Žitna Gora, Sněžnik, Kočevska Reka, Jelen and Ljubljanski vrh, the shooting of the wolves is not planned. This means that it is not implemented either. And if we know that the hunting grounds are Medved, Žitna gora, Sněžnik, Kočevska Reka in the area of Kočevje and represent about 60% of the hunting grounds in Kočevsko-Ribniška, again there is some inequality. And man gets the feeling, especially those who come from these places, that as long as the beasts are beaten by cattle in Kočevsko-Ribniski, the state didn't care much about this issue. However, when there was an exceptional increase in the population and the spread of beasts outside Kočevský to Notranjska, Primorsko, Gorenjska, the country moved relatively quickly and proposed the removal of 175 bears and 11 wolves by intervention law. Of these, 3 wolves from Kočevsko-Belokranski and Novomec hunting areas must not be caught in the above-mentioned fisheries of particular importance. And since these fisheries account for 60% of the fishing area and an extremely important fact, the largest farms and also the largest farms in Kočevsko-Ribniška are precisely in these areas of fisheries of particular importance, so these farms will not be protected in order to protect the structure of the wolf's tropics. Here, too, there is an inequality that shows that the state will protect an internal, coastal, mountain farmer, but not a nomadic-fisher, which has its own leases in the area of fishing for a specific purpose. And so not Slovenia, but Kočevsko places it in some reservation where people live with beasts, as they know and know. Therefore, they do not have any real income or adequate compensation. And when the wolf does no more damage in Notranjska, Primorskie, Gorenjska, that will be no longer a problem. You know, the wolf doesn't know the limit between the hunters. If I may give you an example from our area. The road in the village of Vrbovec in Kočevsko, from Mali gora, is the border between the hunting grounds of the hunting family Kočevje and the hunting area with special meaning Žitna gora. And that means the hunt will take place over the road and not under the road. But the fact is, he's recently killed 70 sheep under the road. I'd be a little bit of a problem with these particular hunting grounds and this exception from this law. I would also have a comment with regard to the regulation of the structure of the shooting of a bear, namely, the law provides that at least 75% of the total shooting of bears will be caught in the first weight category up to 100 kg. In the second gravity category from 100 kg to 150 kg, not more than 15 % and in the third category, not more than 150 kg, not more than 10 % of the total shooting of bears. Here perhaps we could have a little look at Croatia as they plan to withdraw. They do not anticipate removal by body weight but are more attentive to the category of sex. And here I think it's going to be a major hacker, probably experts, hopefully they've somehow recognized it, and they understand what I'm going to talk about. If we know that a female bear becomes sexually mature between the third and fourth years of age, it weighs between 100 and 150 kg, it means that out of the 150 bears we will take, we will shoot most those who are still inactive, immature and unable to perform reproductions. And what will happen then. At the moment we will reach out to the population and reduce it; but most of the bears that are ever mature will have the cubs again next summer. And if we know that now often bears have four cubs, the stock in the long run will not shrink, but it will also grow. I'm just hoping, and I'm pointing to it, I'm talking half lazily, and I hope someone's listening to it, thinking that maybe they'd focus more on the gender of a bear than on the weight. For the problem will certainly be solved at present, but for a long time, and for two years the population will remain as it is, or will increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Gregor Perič has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Kramar ready. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Whoever has had the opportunity to follow up on that five-hour meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, where we have highlighted many of the details of the problem that we are facing today, will also understand the many aspects that have been exposed today and somehow have no answer. That meeting offered a number of answers and is worth looking at. But if I focus more on the topic that we are discussing today, the amendments, I will say something earlier. We also have some regulation at the level of the European Union, which concerns the problem of certain populations of certain species that are protected. Certain countries in the European Union have specimens of this population, such as bears, some 5 or 10, and are territorially much larger than Slovenia. In Slovenia we have, again, certain specimens of some animals, today we are specifically dealing with bears and wolves, where these numbers are much larger, which is some signal, some message we need to take especially positive, in the sense that we live in a country that is biotically very diverse, which has some habitats that have remained untouched practically for centuries. This must be maintained, which does not mean that this population does not need to be regulated. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space initially stated that the aim was to seek an optimum state of the population. This means that the population is just right, that it is not too much, and not too little, because it means that it could disappear sooner or later. This is not only important from an environmental or environmental point of view, but also from a social, social point of view. If the population is optimal, there will also be no tension, there will be stress at the points where animals meet or where the forest ends, and there will be a residential area or area where some economic, agricultural activity takes place. This is extremely important and we must congratulate ourselves here in Slovenia because in the past we have established some balance and balance, that people also understand that the forest is home to different kinds of animals and that they belong there, not in an animal garden. This is also important because there is no activity that would illegally interfere in these areas. Actually, I'm talking about poachers. I imagine that they exist in Europe or elsewhere, people who would like to have some trophy, who would like to brag about catching a bear, shooting a wolf or some other animal. To do so in an uncontrollable way, however, is even more inappropriate and inappropriate, so it seems useful to me that in the law we have before us, there is also a provision that very clearly indicates that any activity in this direction is highly undesirable. I also find it difficult to agree that this potential problem that we do not have or at least do not see – I did not see it – to sanction these potential poachers with the Wildlife Act. The Wildlife Act is primarily intended, as the title of the law itself says, savages; today we are dealing with protected species of animals that require even more restrictive treatment. That is why I do not support this amendment, although I understand it, but it must be said that in the process of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we have also sought some approximate solutions, which have also gone in the direction of those who will, therefore, implement these activities in practice. Actually, I have hunters in mind. And these measures, or these potential penalties – especially in the most critical segment, when we try to define an area outside the settlement, not too far – take into account only one direction, it is not so restrictive, and hunters will still be able to carry out their activities. If in the end I only touch on this distinction, which was also exposed to conditions and guidelines, in order to write the word "direction" in the law instead of the word "conditions". Already in the initial proposal of the law, the word of guidance was envisaged, but we are all together, including the Government on the recommendation of the Legislative and Legal Service, because it is more appropriate and more appropriate in terms of legislative matter, then we all together, or at least a large majority, at least those who voted, agreed to define these provisions in the form of conditions. I cannot support the amendment; I support the resolution of this issue by law. I hope that this solution will also prove appropriate in a legal sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Franz Kramar. But get ready, Mr. Jean Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I think the country has canceled on this subject. Firstly, due to the fact that the competent ministry was in any way responsible to monitor the stock of these beasts. The fact is, we took matters into bureaucratic hands instead of leaving them to professionals and those who know it. I think that all hunting families in Slovenia have an annual breeding plan in which they plan to shoot off, confirmed by the Institute of Forests; and that hunters are those who can monitor the natural balance. This is where the natural balance is damaged. The fact is that this large number of bears and wolves leads to thinking why so much distrust of hunting families, to the Hunting Union, if they are the first to not only shoot wild animals, but also care for the stock, which means that they also care about how many wildlings are taken away annually in an individual area; and they can monitor the condition of the beast as well. In my opinion, this would be significantly better if the Ministry of Agriculture could regulate this problem of these beasts. Whether it is a beast or not — all wildlings do harm, including deer do harm, but it is regulated by annual breeding plans. I can hardly imagine. On the one hand, the urban environment, because we live in two worlds, one is the urban environment, the other is the periphery, or countryside, that in the countryside of a farmer who takes his livestock to a mountain, bears the slaughter of five calves. Unreparable damage, not just because of the calves, but also because of the growth that is supposed to follow. The fact is, it's hard to live among beasts. And I was also reminded of this today by Mr Ribnica, who says that their bears are walking in the streets; and that it is also true that in the forests with motocrosses and other means of transport they are chasing wild game to find themselves in an urban village. But it absolutely supports the intervention law and in this direction also calls on all Members to support it. It may be hard to understand in a place where most people know a bear only through cartoons or an animal garden, what life is like with that beast. It's not pleasant. It's a great fear of government. I think it will also be necessary to assess how many beasts this area of Slovenia carries. If analyses have been made of how much the game is being carried out, it is true that the deer and the rest are being produced, then an assessment should also be made of how many beasts in one area are still the limit that makes normal life possible. I support this intervention law, because this is the only way to get closer to it; however, my assessment is that, despite this intervention law, there will be no natural balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. As the last debater in this round, Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you, Vice President. I've been a hunter for ten years. If I look back ten years and compare it to today, I can say that when I go hunting, I see less game than I saw ten years ago. Plans have also increased; if we had, for example, ten years ago in our hunting family on the shooting of some 135 pieces of deer, we already have a score of 170 today. To what extent such a shooting affects the fact that there is less food, some would, of course, say and might say that even because of the excessive shooting of deer and deer, I know that this farmer does not like to hear, the wolf or the bear come to the settlements. Yet farmers have great damage from deer and deer. Again, the question is whether deer and deer are still too many. What does it mean to hurt if we increase the plans of deer and deer; and what does it mean for beasts to shoot deer and deer? It's not just the shooting of the parking lot that's the reason to see less crap today. There's still a lot of animals. In particular, intervention in nature is a problem. You can see them at night, but you can't see them in the afternoon. If you go hunting in the morning, you'll see something else, if you go out tonight, you'll be a little bit less because there's wildlings coming out of the woods when the environment calms down. In the day there are activities around the houses, there are activities in the fields, there are activities in the woods, there is recreation in the forest and until everything calms down, deer, which is anyway a night animal, which means that hunting is difficult to carry out. At night, however, hunting is forbidden to be carried out with artificial light sources. It's good for beasts, not deer and deer. And this is where the law will have to be opened, because in the middle of the night, artificial light sources can entangle the savages in a hunting ethical way. On the night that you're on guard and when the deer doesn't see you, I speak theoretically, when they graze in peace, you can observe, you can judge sex, you can assess structure, you can estimate age, and you can also ethically inflame wildlings. Then what happens? When the end of the year needs to be achieved – how do we do it? On the engines. That's where you fly past 20 animals, deer, cobwebs, spears, calves, and so on; and you have five seconds to decide which one of these 20s you're going to take. It often happens that you shoot, there is no shot directly where it has to be, that an animal goes another hundred, two hundred meters ahead, you have to look, the savages are tormented. But the law is that it doesn't allow for any other kind of hunting. At night, when a wildling is calm, when a hunter can quietly observe it, without disturbing it, when he can assess it, when he can decide for himself which person will take away from nature, it also does so, the game is not disturbed and the game is also entangled in a hunting ethical way. When you have the chance to engulf the wildlings when they graze, so the wildlings don't even bother. Unfortunately, however, there is no debate in Parliament on how to achieve this objective. And farmers are rightly complaining about Article 5 of the Law on Forests. When we went from Yugoslavia to Slovenia, we changed — or at least some are, some are not — opinion on private property. We know what it says in Article 5 about hunting, how it is about picking mushrooms, how it is about recreation; but once it will be necessary to listen to farmers or owners of these lands, both in fields, meadows and in forests, so that nothing can be done from the place. And I don't own the forest myself, not the lawn, so that's not what's happening to me. But I know a lot of farmers who are justifiably angry because everything is done on their property. This article will also have to be opened and discussed once. When these things are also arranged to reduce the burden of wildlings in nature, trust me that the entire cycle will also take place or that everything else can be driven as it goes. That there might also be less damage so that the beasts may remain in the woods; but not that all things come out of the forest today to pastures, meadows, fields, even villages, we have heard the example of farmers sleeping in his barn. But all of this could be arranged. What we are listening to today, or what we have before us today, even though I will support it, proves that we still have no strategy. Even if we subtract 175 pieces of brown bear, we need to look at not only the number 175, but the structure. Most of these, more than half of them are up to 100 kilograms, are said to be young bears that are not sexually mature. I can say that I strongly agree with what my colleague Baković said earlier. To limit, they should cut me into a population of three-, four-year-old bears or when bears are sexually matured. On the contrary, as we say in the countryside — no farmer will go to the barn and kill the middle - class cows or the most fertile ones because he wants the matter to continue. But with this structure of the shooting, you can also rest assured that the shooting of 200 bears will complete the story of the bear in Slovenia. No, he won't, 'cause he's gonna take 'em for the year 200, and 250 of 'em will still land. And even if we have 970 of them today and we confiscate 200 of them, next year there will be between a thousand and a thousand 100. And with such a shot, which I can challenge as half a layman, I am not a professional, because I am not a forester, because I have not studied at the Biotechnical College, I trust in the opinion of experts; but the very structure of such a shooting, which is written here, makes it possible that in Slovenia the bear population will still be at the level that we have now, even because this law saves things back, even when it is adopted. We still have to wait for someone to bring the case to trial. And then what happens when the case is closed again? Above all, what will we do to finally have a three - year or five - year animal management plan? What my colleague Kramar said earlier; we need to talk and also set a number that will be acceptable and will tell us what the maximum number is, that there is still a possibility of non-conflict interaction between people and beasts in Slovenia. But, ladies and gentlemen, this was our proposal to decide that the Ministry should consult and that the ceiling of the number of still acceptable beast populations should be set; but this was unfortunately rejected. And not only is it difficult to estimate what Baković said, including these numbers, up to 100, from 100 to 150, from 150, the hunting family gets a decision to 150 kilograms and falls a bear that has 240 kilograms. The hunter says he looked smaller from the tendons. Did he know? When a capitalist came, he said, "Here I am." Didn't he know and really looked smaller? Who's going to judge that now? And who will be the one to say that 3,000 euros in fines will be given to such ones? And what happens if I cariculate if the decision is due to damage, say, up to 100 kilograms; but there goes a bear that has 100 kilograms and more? Why is there a 1.5km limit? Give an example of a hunter with a pretzel and a camera within a mile [1.5 km]; and it has, say, a carpet and a camera outside a kilometre and a half, say, a mile [2 km], a mile [2.5 km], or a mile [2.5 km] further. That's what the bear's been up to, and that's not what he's up to. What's he gonna do now? He can't be there, but he's got a problem every night; he doesn't come here where he can get it. And if the amendment of New Slovenia came into force, this problem would be solved. Bears do up to 50 kilometers a day. And where will he come to you? Where to wait for him? And to give hunters a tool like this and that based on everything we see, based on everything it says, we know that it still preserves the wolf and bear population at the level that it currently is, this intervention does not endanger the wolves or the bears. To reach out to the young population, it is only a guarantee that this number will only increase in the coming years, because if we wanted to limit it, and as the representative of the Institute of Forests said last week, when we had an urgent meeting of both committees, that somehow for the Slovenian situation the maximum number of bears is 500, then we should go to the middle class of bears. As long as the number of middle classes in the central hunting management area is Kočevsko-Belokranjska – 11, Notranjska – 13, Western high karsko – 2, Novomecko – 1; the stock of bears will be even higher with us because it does not reach the bear population. Every year a bear has so many and so many cubs, so many and so many of them, so multiply it, count it down. If there are about 70 bears, 48 are taken away, next year, in two years, the number of bears will still be growing with us because we don't have the proper planning with the beasts. Although Slovenia is immediately for Romania, the problem is as we take it. Some can see opportunities in this, others some problems, and usually both, we do not have a strategy of how to do what we want, how we want to do it. We could use it for tourism, but we can't. Above all, it bears in areas where it is acceptable and does not cause problems, but not in the vicinity of broken settlements and where it does harm to people. With us, it goes down on the day of the farm and half, let's do something for the countryside, let's do something for the farms, because by doing so, agriculture will leave because of the problem of the game, because of the problem of the beast, those who still have a bit of joy to cultivate their land and to keep the countryside alive and inhabited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Since this was the last reported debater, I ask if there is still interest in the debate. I can see that. I'm opening a new application circuit, and then I'll give my word to the Secretary of State. Check-in is on. We've got five reported discussers. First, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State Mark Mavre. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for the opinions expressed and also for those that have expressed your support for this intervention law. As I mentioned in the opening speech, it is crucial for the Ministry to maintain a balance between the favourable state of the population of these beasts and the tolerance we are now observing that it is decreasing. Even throughout this debate in recent weeks, many emotions have been expressed, as has already been the case, and any decision must be based on a profession. The decree we adopted last year was reached on the basis of a broad consensus of the hunting union, including representatives of the ministry, NGOs, including this intervention law, is reinforced by professional comments. The law isn't systemic because it's interventional. As I pointed out at the outset, we have an animal management system. In addition to the intervention law, we are already preparing a decree for the following year 2019-2020, as regards jackals, and currently in the public hearing, the exemption regulation is an exception to the list of protected species. As far as the amendments are concerned, we do not support the proposals. As far as Articles 8 and 9 are concerned, the proposed law is based on exceptions to the protection of strictly protected species provided for in the Habitat Directive; these exemptions allowing for the removal of serious damage to property, due to the interests of public security and the limited selective and controlal removal of certain species from nature. The proposed amendment not to set the conditions for the shooting of a bear and a wolf, but merely to guide; and to release the provision that the shooting of a bear should be carried out in a lane of 1.5 kilometres around the settlements as a matter of priority, contradicts one of the essential reasons for the adoption of the law, that is to say, a deteriorating sense of security of the population and a sense of danger. The solution, as proposed by the amendment. would also constitute a derogation from the requirements of the Habitat Directive and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We also disagree with the deletion of Articles 12a and 12b of the criminal provisions, as we do not support derogations from the law on spatial and numerical distribution of the insured species. As far as the proposed fines are concerned, it is appropriate in our view. Finally, I would only add, as I mentioned at the outset, that there is also a need for systemic regulation or upgrading of this management with beasts, including with regard to the preparation of the strategy and plan, this will also be one of the tasks of our ministry and cooperation with other departments and a wider expertise.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Breznik, I can hear you from here, and I believe that you are also disturbing the speaker. If you have anything to discuss, please step out of the hall. Mr. Boštjan Koražija continues. But Mr. Vojko Starović should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u146	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. When I listen to this debate, I must admit that there are a lot of questions coming to me; even when Mr Mahnic explained earlier what caused the imbalance in nature, that such a number of bears or other animals in nature have increased. And I can't help feeling that this intervention law is being adopted with some incredible rush or force. As already mentioned on the Joint Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space and Agriculture, the Hunting Union of Slovenia has, or still, not know, offered hunting tourism or also offers hunting tourism. For a bear trophy, up to €6,000 500 is to be paid for the shooting of a bear. I don't know if this is due to the fact that this intervention law is being adopted as quickly as I know – and also Mr Mahnic will probably be able to confirm it because he is a hunter – that he is approaching or that even the hunting season is the shooting of a beast. The next thing you know, I've already told that to that joint committee that whatever you take from nature or nature, take it with dignity. And even what you give nature back, you give it back with dignity. When you mentioned Mr. Breznik earlier, because he likes to repeat the Fourth Industrial Revolution quite often, I will say so. Man has launched the first, second, third and fourth industrial revolution. I think the time has come for one truly real revolution and the most important revolution – for the revolution of man; that man finally knows and realizes that it is time to listen to the heart and return to the essence, that is to say nature. In Slovenia we really have wonderful biodiversity or diversity. Mrs Dimic also pointed out earlier when she said that she did not imagine that Slovenia would be a natural reserve or anything. And I imagine, because we can be proud of what we have. We have a wonderful, rich nature. We have an incredible biodiversity, and I can't imagine because I've lived in nature and I'm living with nature to go on without it, or that our future generations would be without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Vojko Starović, your word. But get ready for Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! This beast problem has been written on many newspapers, we have had committees, we are sitting, one working day of this legislative body is worth about 100,000 if we calculate what the budget is for our assembly, that is, for legislators and what we accept. The problem has arisen, the problem is present, we've flown it through intervention law. Otherwise, this should be systematically regulated and should be resolved somewhere at the executive level in the exercise itself, in the management of nature or in the management of animals. So there's something wrong. Last time we talked about the Energy Act, someone can stop your procedure, and you can't pull it off like you're set up because someone has too many powers. How can someone, one group, stop the whole thing and we have to run side walks, side-by-side ways. We're in business, we have to say we're not experts. Maybe my colleague Mahnic is, because he's a hunter, he understands more about this matter, and what I've been listening to, we've been talking more emotionally, because there's a fear here. It's a bear, and it's a little creepy, and it's a wolf, it's nature, it's the difference between a town and a village, it's rural and it's nature. We're more into this. We can understand less professionally what forest management and nature means, animal management. I apologize, but I think of Parliament as a jury, which must make the right proposals because we are not an expert public. We are a layman group representing the interests of our people and assessing whether they are right or wrong. In this case, it seems to me that it is wrong for us to have to adopt an intervention law that could not be resolved at the second level. And it will be necessary to think in fact, the executive power, which also prepares laws for us, the ministry, how to regulate this area, so that some small groups, societies, when they do, do not do such damage that then we all have to deal with these days and days, waste our time with the things that have arisen because of, as was the last time in the Energy Act, three people gather together, take the initiative and stop the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The following gets the word, Mr Luka Mesec. But get ready, Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I'll just keep going where Mr Starovic has finished. I would like to stress further that we are talking about two protected species. They are protected because they are threatened; and because of the fact that we are both species, bears, and wolves, humans are almost extinct; and therefore they need to be legally protected. This is also the reason why bears and wolves fear death and avoid it, if possible. I said before that the wolf attack on a man in the written history of Slovenia has never been. The bear and man meet in conflict from nothing to twice a year, with the last fatalities a few decades ago. In short, I mean, one of the discussers earlier said that people in urban environments only know bears through cartoons. I think it's a problem when we talk about a bear or a wolf that we all have in front of that wolf from the Red Hood who eats children; and that's why it's very easy to confuse stories about how wolves scare children in Slovenian villages. I think that this is somehow ideologically behind this hysteria that we are witnessing, and the very fact that we have to adopt an intervention law in this regard, which, of course, we strongly oppose in Levica. The fact is, I've been reading a little bit about how experts define how these animals behave. On one website I found Mr. Mati Strgar from the Slovenian Institute of Forests, who said: “Man was the biggest threat to bear throughout history. If the bears wanted to survive, they had to be able to avoid man. Through evolution, fear of man only increased. Fear of humans is particularly present in a country as strongly populated as we do. Therefore, in the vast majority of cases, a bear is avoided by a man.” It's actually the behavior of these beasts. We have been listening here for the second week since this debate started, as if all the wolves and bears in Slovenia have rabies and are just waiting and surviving for the corners to attack us. This is a sentiment that we must all reason against or look at with a handful of salt. The other thing is when you talk a lot about natural balance. I used to be a little bit of a principle, and then, in a way, Mahnič continued it nicely. The problem is that man is very recklessly interfering with nature, including in this balance of savages and beasts. I said before, every year, hunters shoot around 40,000 deer, 7,000 deer, 8 thousand this year, and 8-9 thousand wild pigs. These species are the main food for wolves. And when wolves get too close to the village, you have to wonder if the shooting plan was too big. For the last time, they also told me from the Hunting Union, not directly, but on the committee, that they often disagree with the plans prescribed by the Forest Department, that they are too big for the game to be shot. That's one side, too much wildfire, and that's why we have a problem with occasional beast attacks on the pet and farmed animals. And the other part of the problem is why bears multiply. Dr. Miha Krofel, Slovenian explorer of bears, wolves, lynx, said that in a third of bear droppings were found traces of feed. Feeding bears and bears also feed on feed intended for wild pigs, allowing them to multiply faster than they would otherwise allow for natural balance. On both sides, man will intervene and there will be no natural balance in this way, even if we discuss how to establish it through some intervention laws and assess it slightly over the finger. Of course, balance is a balance created by nature; and we can only establish it by trying to keep ourselves as far away from it as possible. In nature, man has already intervened significantly, as we are told about the decline in biodiversity, environmental change, and so forth. Since its civilizational development, man has taken care of the removal of 83% of all wild animals, many of them extinct, and today the biomass of mammals is about: 96% of the world’s biomass is human and animal feeders. We slaughter 200 billion land animals a year for our food. At the second stop of wild animals remained 4%, all from elephants, tigers to pears, deer, wolves and so on. In short, 4% is still the biomass of these animals. And so we will have to watch for damning how we treat them, how we will ensure that these animal species survive. As I said, bears and wolves are endangered and protected species, and fear of them is largely unjustifiable. As far as the attacks on smallpox are concerned, I think that Slovenian practice also clearly shows that there are more human alternatives than shooting, that is, mainly, subsidising fences for pastures, where bears and wolves appear. Miha Krofel, mentioned again, participated in the SloWolf project, where farmers were equipped with electric shepherds and shepherding dogs on the pastures under Snow White, and thus practically destroyed the damage. In Levica, we have proposed alternative conclusions on the committee in terms of how to keep wolves and bears away from settlements. Direct measures that are cheap, feasible and work in practice are shepherds around pastures, where attacks occur, interdepartmental composters and dumpsters in settlements where a bear occasionally appears or near them. And it will also be necessary to discuss the shooting of the game, because if hunters continue to shoot 30 percent of all wild game a year, then it is not just a coincidence why wolves occasionally approach other food sources, such as small amounts. We will not support the law in the Left, nor do we support the amendments tabled by the right hand, which further exacerbate the implications of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, your word. But get ready for Mr. Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I apologize. My colleague and I have just had a debate on this subject. As Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, which has made some consideration of the serious subject of wild beasts and populations, I will say some points that are important that we understand matter and that even those who watch us through television broadcasters understand matter. Firstly, I must say that before we convened a committee, at the request of the Slovenian Democratic Party and colleagues from Nova Slovenije, and before I invited, which was even a criticism of some colleagues, even a number of experts from Slovenia, as well as injured persons, including those who filed an action before the Administrative Court and held the seizure of these beasts, that is, the Alpe Adria Green, including the Hunting Union and all, we had a meeting for more than six hours. In my opinion, it was the most mass-represented meeting and I have given a democratic truth to everyone. What have we learned from this session? To repeat, the first thing that was that in Slovenia not only farmers but also people have an extremely tolerant attitude towards the beast. They are aware that we are interacting with them that Slovenia is extremely large with the forest, which is their natural refuge. Compared to France, we have extreme tolerance and we are aware that the beasts are also part of the image of the green sonar Slovenia, even in all likelihood of the future. As far as tolerance is concerned, I can say the naked fact that some of the bears we once caught did not kill them and we moved them to France, in particular to Pyrenees, there was only two sheep torn apart by our bear. For example, French farmers in the Pyrenees even wanted to close the famous Tour de France a few years ago, and they put large panoramas through one part of the stage and mass protested because one bear tore up two sheep. From this point of view, you can see that Slovenian farmers, especially those living in areas where wolves are constantly present, are extremely tolerant that they do not make big alarms even when one, two, three sheep are attacked. But if I finish my argument here and go back another step, the members of the Committee on Agriculture, which is one of the areas most affected by this increase in the population of these beasts, we have also held one consultation in the neighbouring country. We held one joint meeting in Opatija on the topic of natural disaster that happened to us in Slovenian forests along with Croats. And they also showed us in the Mountain Kotar, more specifically in the Shares, their forest rehabilitation and also the damage caused by natural capture. At this meeting we also had a brief presentation of the state of the beast, especially the bear in Croatia and also in Slovenia. You can see for yourself those who were present two years ago that the bear population in Slovenia and Croatia was about the same, on the fact that Croatia has about three times the size of territory. Finally, we found that the state of the beast in Slovenia at the number of bears is almost a thousand inappropriate and that there is no other asset than, unfortunately, the seizure. It's hard, and my father was once a veterinarian and shooting animals isn't exactly in my blood either; but right now the only solution is the intervention law and unfortunately removing part of the brown bear population, the wolf, maybe the jackal in the coming months. Unfortunately, I have some arguments to conclude, but time is up. The Slovenian Democratic Party and ourselves will, of course, support this intervention law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you. I've talked about this natural balance before. For the last time on the board, he was scaring the jackal, but he was like this – the wolf is the natural enemy of the jackal. When you remove the wolf, he'll just multiply his jackal and then you'll shoot the jackal. And so it looks, starts with the wild, continues with the beasts. When I listen to this, I think it's more of a natural balance adjustment to some of the whole things than shooting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Since the time of the SDS Group has passed, Mr Doblekar does not get the floor either. But I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Because no, we are closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 9 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think my colleague Perič said that poaching is not defined in the Area Wildlife and Hunting Act. Of course not, but there is in Article 342 of the Penal Code, and there is also a passage of poachers. I would ask once again, although this is related to Article 8, but they are very similar, I simply do not understand, I did not understand the Secretary of State, why this number should be a thousand 500 meters or a kilometer in here. If it was an intervention law, why not give people a little more freedom if we are to achieve a purpose? Or we can make an intervention law and make things so tighter that it just won't be feasible. I can agree, I don't know this habitat directive that Mr Secretary of State has mentioned, but then I would like because I'm not a hunter to be told how we can shoot some brown bear now if he gets close to the settlement. How will we measure this now, because the fines are again abnormally high, I will talk about this at Article 12. If I were a hunter, I wouldn't be blinded by this intervention law, and the wolves and the bears would continue to do harm. And another little bit more for the joke, I thank my colleague Luke Mesac, I could have concluded that if we didn't have a story about the Red Hat, we wouldn't have this intervention law either, because if we didn't have this story about the Red Hat, no one would be afraid of the wolf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? If not, we're closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 12a and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. In this 12.a and also in Article 12.b, we estimate that it would be more wise not to define new fines in the intervention law, because all violations and fines already set out and very well described in the area law, this is the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. Now, once again, if you were a hunter, you really wouldn't see me implementing this marriage, even though these beasts are doing brutal damage. For example, in the intervention law, a hunter gets a fine of thousands to 3,000 euros if he commits a misdemeanor. In the District Law, this is in the Wildlife and Hunting Act, and it gets a significantly smaller fine, at an interval of €420 to €200. It is said, from thousands to 3,000 euros in intervention, in the area of 420 to thousands of €200. Why? I don't understand why. In order for the intervention law not to be implemented. I'll tell you, that's why. And I made this comparison, the intervention law, for the person responsible for legal persons, the fine between EUR 2 000 500 and 7 000; in the area law, this is the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which is only EUR 420 to EUR 4 000 100. It is said that in the intervention law there is a ceiling of 7,000 and in the field there are only 4 thousand 100 euros. There is simply a tendency here that this intervention law would not be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 12b and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Because no, we are closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 9th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.56 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-20-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u160	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 13, 14, 1A point 4, 10, 15 and 12 item of the agenda. We are therefore moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 24th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the 24th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 76 votes against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Treatment for 2018. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to that report of the Ombudsman. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 76 votes against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the report has been adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 1.A item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for an Law on the Interventional Withdrawal of the Species of Brown Bear and the Wolf of Nature. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 20 June 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 8. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 27 to 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 12.a. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 12b. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 9. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Name Act (ZOI-1A), the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection (ZMZ-1A), the first reading. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on International Protection is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2019-2023 (ReNPPZK19-23). As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 44 votes against 29. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
