ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! Nice greetings to the minister and the others present! I'm about to proceed with the fifth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Joseph Horvat, Mag. Andrej Shircelj, Lyudmila Novak, Tomaž Lisec, Dr. Franc Trček from 10 a.m. to 15 p.m. and Iva Dimic from 11 a.m. to 14 p.m. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on amendments and additions to the Act on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2018 and 2019 The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposed Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 regulates only the most urgent changes that will allow the smooth implementation of the budget for the current year. Taking into account that, on the basis of the budget balance presented by the State, the extent of the country's permissible indebtedness is changing, the government is reducing the level of government debt for 2019 by EUR 1.4 billion compared to the law in force. The proposed law also sets out the extent to which indirect users of the budget of the State and non-financial corporations are authorised and guarantees of the State. The proposed amendment to the second paragraph of Article 52 of ZIPRS, compared with the current regulation of that entity, separates and sets a quota of up to EUR 200 million for those members of the State sector, and the total quota is set at EUR 900 million. Article 60 of the ZIPRS is also amended to increase the number of employees allowed in the Common Staff Plan of the national authorities. So far, the permissible increase set out in the pooled workforce plan of no more than 0.8% increases by a further 0.2%. This increase will address the problem of prison staff and ensure that the number of employees in the probation project is adequate. There is also an exception to Article 42 of the Public Finance Act. That law prevents the use of funds from the general budget reservation in the event that funds can be planned in the preparation of the budget. The Public Finance Act, in the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 42, provides that the appropriations of the general budgetary reservation shall be used for unforeseen purposes for which no funds are provided in the budget or for purposes for which, during the year, funds are not sufficiently provided, because they could not be planned in the preparation of the budget. Taking into account that the condition under which sufficient budgetary conditions could not be planned is difficult to reach, the proposed update of ZIPRS for 2018 and 2019 provides for an exemption from the mandatory planning of funds associated with the preparation for the Presidency of the Council of the EU. The proposed arrangement is justified as it is not possible at this time to take into account any external circumstances which may affect the volume of consumption for these purposes already in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your introduction. The mother's working body is the Committee on Finance and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u4	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! At its 6th meeting, on 2 March this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Government. As a material for the meeting, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 15 February 2019 and the opinion of the Council of State of 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 3 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly and the Council of State took part in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance presented the key solutions foreseen in the bill. He stressed that there were urgent changes to the smooth implementation of the budget. The proposal for a law reduces the permissible extent of the country's indebtedness. It shall also specify the extent to which indirect users of the budget of the State and non-financial corporations in the main ownership of the State are authorised and guaranteed. The proposal for a law increases the number of employees allowed in the Common Staff Plan of the State authorities and thus solves the human resources problem in certain areas. With regard to the amendments relating to the provisions on the use of general budgetary reservation funds, he explained that certain expenditure is difficult to predict, and therefore the proposal for a law regulates the amendment relating to the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly stated that the amendments had been tabled in all the articles on which the Legislative and Legal Service had made comments in its written opinion. The comments to Articles 2 and 3 are fully taken into account and noted that the new Article 68, irrespective of the adoption of the amendment tabled, would constitute an exception to the legal system or a minor derogation from the principle of the specialisation of the budget. The representative of the Council of State said that the State Council does not support the bill, which is also based on its written opinion. He presented the key concerns of the Council of State regarding the bill, in particular the issue of the financing of municipalities, and because of the rise in wages they are not able to finance all their legal tasks, irrespective of the rise in the average. He pointed out that it would be useful to consider different arrangements for borrowing and stressed that it was inappropriate to introduce differences in relation to the classification of the State in the sector. In its written opinion, the Council of State also expressed concern about the warnings of the Fiscal Council. The debate raised the issue of specific cases where it is problematic to demonstrate the eligibility of the use of appropriations from the budget reservation. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that there had been some discrepancies with the Court of Auditors, which suggested that spending planning could be more accurate when the budget was adopted. Due to the constraints to be taken into account in budget planning, there is now less room for additional reserves. For this reason, the proposal also provides for an exception to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In accordance with Article 130(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. You have the first word, Mr Blaž Pavlin, New Slovenia's Group of Members - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 brings some changes to which we are critical in New Slovenia. The basic form of the bill provided for the suspension of an important budgetary principle of specialisation, allowing the Government to voluntarily redistribute the general budget reserve resources without having to demonstrate compliance with certain conditions. With the introduction of the law in Novi Slovenija, we were quite surprised about such a proposal for amendments, but fortunately, the coalition took into account the warnings of the Legal and Legal Service and limited the change to EU Presidency funds. In the following draft legislation, the limit to which indirect users of the budget and non-financial corporations with a dominant national influence may owe or issue guarantees increases from €600 million to €900 million. This puts new emphasis on non-financial corporations with a dominant national impact that can owe up to EUR 200 million, which represents one third of the total limit so far. In Novi Slovenija, we object to an increase in debt, even with the budgetary surplus foreseen by the Government. Since 2016, the country's expenditure has increased by almost 2.4 billion. We do not see any need to increase the indebtedness of indirect users of the budget and non-financial companies with a dominant national impact. In Novi Slovenija we also oppose the increase in employment in the authorities of the state administration. Most recent discussions have been made on the multiplication of State secretaries, but the proposal of the law that we now have on the table also increases the maximum number of employees in the administration by increasing the permissible increase of 0.8% by 0.2 percentage points per cent. We believe that the Government of the Administration has gone to the wrong end. It is easy to increase the number of employees in the administration and it is more difficult to improve the efficiency of existing resources. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the proposed amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Accounts relate to 2019 and were prepared simultaneously with the rebalancing of the budget for 2019 and cover over-the-counter revisions of the existing law for this year. The first such minor correction is the editorial unification of the terminology of the rebalancing and the Law on the Implementation of Budgets and relates to the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021. The amendment of the law provides that the direct user of the budget may acquire fixed assets only if this is covered by the real estate and movable property acquisition plan, and this plan must be aligned with the development programme plan. There is also an increase in the number of employees allowed in the State authorities’ Common Staff Plan, in order to increase the permissible increase set out in the total staff plan of no more than 0.8 per cent by a further 0.2 per cent. In fact, following the vision of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the proposed amendments to the Budget Implementation Act set out that the planned level of government debt would decrease from EUR 3 000 255 million to EUR 890 million. The scope of the debt is determined by the fact that the State will be in charge of the refinancing of the existing debt with a fixed and more cost-effective new debt or, in other words, the repayment of the old debt will be offset by a new, cheaper debt. However, debt is necessary because budgetary surpluses are too small to allow them to pay off their debt on a regular basis, but the debt will decrease in 2019, both in the share of GDP and in the actual amount. This is an incomparable success compared to other years since independence, when debt has always grown only, except in 2008. Why this debt was incurred and, above all, how it was used, this may not be the subject of consideration of this law. The proposed amendments to the law also refer to the provision or provisions for the application of the budgetary reservation, which has already been explained here, so I do not intend to continue. What I want to say is that the Desus Group will support amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Ivanuša on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, everyone else is present. Good afternoon. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. Do you know what the biggest problem is in this budget — that it is only an assessment of revenue increase and a certainty of expenditure increase. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not agree to an increase in expenditure from the State budget without prior optimisation of all expenditure. In addition, we are aware of the current situation in the global economy, and we are also amazed at the government's so optimistic forecasts of an increase in revenue. When preparing the country's budget balance, macroeconomic indicators should be taken into account. The question of which macroeconomic indicators have been taken into account in increasing the level of eligible expenditure of the State sector. There is only one indicator on our question, and this is the last report of the Dead. I must admit that it is completely incomprehensible for me why the Government, on the one hand, restricts itself by reducing the extent of the country's permissible debt and, on the other hand, introduces an exception to the conditions for the use of the general budget reserve funds. On the one hand, the State restricts itself to debt and, on the other hand, allows indirect users of the country's budget and non-financial corporations primarily owned by the State to be more indebted. I don't understand. Obviously, it seems better for the Government to be less indebted and more indebted to indirect budgetary users and state-owned companies and, in any event, to be charged by taxpayers in any event. In the Slovenian National Party, we object to new employment in state bodies without a previously optimized organisation of the State body. First, it is necessary to find the necessary jobless persons within the state administration and relocate them to other jobs. Let them work. Only then can he get a new job. For each new job in the public administration, the applicant should explain what positive effects this new job will have and also monitor these effects regularly. We support only those jobs in the state administration, which mean better public service for Slovenia and Slovenia. The Public Finance Act, in Article 42, provides that the appropriations of the general budgetary reservation shall be used only for unforeseen purposes for which no funds are provided in the budget or for purposes for which, during the year, it shall be demonstrated that the funds provided are not sufficiently available because they could not be planned in the preparation of the budget. The use of general budgetary reserve funds shall be decided by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The drafter assesses that the condition that sufficient resources could not be planned in the preparation of the budget is difficult to prove. The proposed exemption related to the use of general budgetary reservation funds is the Government. The use of general budgetary reserve funds shall be decided by the Government. I don't even understand what the problem is. On the Committee on Finance, we have also adopted amendments following the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. These amendments were necessary as the proposed exception related to the use of the general budget reserve would violate one of the most important principles of public financing, namely the principle of the specialisation of the budget laid down in the Public Finances Act. It is understandable that unforeseeable circumstances and life events that can increase individual expenditure make it impossible to plan precisely, but it is necessary to make sure that expenditure is properly planned in the preparation of the budget. Despite some concerns, we will vote in favour of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister! The Budget Implementation Act, the main objective is the current and smooth implementation of the budget. In view of the fact that the parent body of the Finance Committee has changed Article 68, which speaks of the general use of budgetary provisions, we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Ms Andreja Zabret on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Madam Ambassador, the stage is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u14	Dear President, government representatives! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the novel under consideration is to legalise solutions that will enable the country's budget to be implemented in an ongoing and smooth manner once the country's budget has been rebalanced for 2019. In addition to some editorial corrections, by adopting it, we will allow for a higher number of employees in the Common Staff Plan of the State Authorities. In particular, it is the employees of the trial project, since, at the moment, the human resources completion in this area is not even half the size of the project, despite the fact that the needs for additional staff have already been clearly presented at the time of the adoption of the Probation Act. On 1 April last year, the Administration took over 488 cases from social work centres. By the end of November last year, the number of cases they had in work had jumped to a thousand 974. In view of the fact that the number of cases they have under consideration has increased by several months of operation, it is essential to provide additional staff, otherwise it will be difficult for the Administration to carry out its work. There is also an exception to Article 42 of the Public Finance Act. This provides that the appropriations for the general budget reserve shall be used for unforeseen purposes for which no funds are provided in the budget or for purposes for which it shall be demonstrated during the flight that the funds are not sufficiently provided, because they could not be planned in the preparation of the budget. As the condition that sufficient resources could not be planned in the preparation of the budget is difficult to prove, the proposed Article provides for an exemption from this condition. Following a warning from the Legislative and Legal Service and the adoption of the coalition amendment on the working body, it is now stipulated that an exception is to be made only for the purposes of the EU Presidency. The scope of the resources needed by individual ministries in 2019 for the purpose of the Presidency cannot be worked out, as the use of resources depends, inter alia, on external circumstances such as the effectiveness of calls. In the Group of Members of the Letter of Marjan Šarc, we will unanimously support the proposal of the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ms Bojana Muršič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law on the implementation of budgets in the Slovenian legal order forms an integral part of the adoption of the budget. This law is a condition for the implementation of the budget. Without its adoption, the budget cannot recover, for example, by setting the maximum permissible level of indebtedness, by increasing the employment limit in certain public services, by regulating the use of the budgetary reservation, which can also be used in preparation for the Presidency of the European Union, which is already waiting for Slovenia in a very short time. As always, the Law on the implementation of the budget is also intended to determine the average amount, i.e. the amount by which the municipalities are to cover the performance of the tasks entrusted to them by the State. Even though the state and the municipalities have reached an agreement in the budget negotiations on the average level, it is obvious that we will not be able to avoid the repeated debate this year, whose red thread is the claim of the municipalities that the state is inadequately and insufficiently funding the mandatory tasks of the municipalities and thus causes the costs of public services to be passed on to people. Much has already been said in the budget debate on this topic. All things considered, this time the adoption of this law will have to be quite routine. The debate and the adopted opinion of the Council of State, which does not support this bill, indicate that this time we will also focus on the situation and funding of the municipalities, not on the wider picture that we must have before our eyes when we adopt the budget. The fact is that the system of financing local self-government is not appropriate and that a number of opportunities have already been missed in the history of this country in order to properly regulate it. However, it is also a fact that the municipalities with the country have reached an agreement on the level of the average in the negotiations on this budget. However, opposition to the adoption of this law stems from the fact that other agreements have been reached, particularly with public servants who increase the volume of funds for their hard-earned salaries. As increased commitments to public servants, such as those employed in kindergartens and nursing homes, are burdened by the municipalities, they are now taking advantage of the opportunity to warn that, despite the increased average, they still have to provide a certain part of the funds themselves or allow the price of services to be raised for their citizens. The fact is, no system will ever be perfect. It is also a fact that the State must also seek its own internal reserves if it is to set up and implement an optimal budget. It will never be possible to adopt all the funds until the last item at the level of the National Assembly. Any user of the budget, including at the municipal level, must smartly allocate the resources available to him, take decisions and stand behind them. In some congregations, they will thus cover the increased costs of paid workers, while in others they will choose to pass these costs on to the public. But in the end, the measures are the matter of prioritizing the municipality. In some places, asphalt and circulars will be put first, and elsewhere, they will adjust their expenses. These decisions at the municipal level mean an important difference for the population, so no one can take any responsibility for the decisions taken. Many of the proposals made by the critics of this bill are worthy of consideration, and we welcome the open debate on improving the model of community funding in the Group of Social Democrats. Again, we must call for it to be brought to its conclusion, otherwise we are once again at risk that this debate will be revived in the coming years when the budgetary documents are adopted in the National Assembly. This issue is too important for both the functioning of the municipalities and for people, so that this folklore is only when budgetary decisions are taken. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support this proposal for a law that allows the implementation of a revised and complementary budget, which we also support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs Mateja Udovč, on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u18	Your Honor! The new Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 regulates the implementation of this year's budget. The main solutions relate to the increase in the permissibility of the pooled staffing plan and the determination of the permissible extent of the country's indebtedness in 2019. It also regulates an exception related to the use of general budget reserve funds. The Novela increases the number of employees allowed in the Common Staff Plan of the State authorities to one per cent. The increase will also ensure an adequate number of employees in the probation project, where there are currently 18 employees. Prior to the transfer of powers to the administration, approximately 36 staff members performed this work in social work centres and the caseload increased by more than four times. The note also allows for an increase in the staffing plan of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. Funds for new employment have already been provided in the budget of the Ministry of Justice for this year and should be provided for in the staffing plan. This will solve the most pressing human resources problems of individual institutions for the cessation of prison sentences. The balance provides for the extent of the country's permissible debt for 2019 of up to EUR 890 million. Due to the positive economic cycle, a further reduction in public debt to 66% of gross domestic product is expected by the end of the year. The country has been reducing interest costs in recent years through debt management. Compared to 2014, these costs under the proposal for a rebalancing are lower than almost EUR 300 million. The reduction in interest expenditure in 2018 is the result of active public debt management. Slovenia has been the second among the Member States of the European Union in the past, for Ireland, following a reduction in debt. The country's debt is still above 60% of its gross domestic product, but it is steadily falling, with projected dynamics, and the criteria will be met at the end of the medium-term period of this government. It also lays down an exception to Article 42 of the Public Finance Act as regards the general budgetary reservation. The exception is to prepare for the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in 2021. Intensive preparations for the event are already under way this year, but resources per sector cannot be distributed because consumption depends on external factors. The proposal for the new ZIPRS for 2018 and 2019 will be supported by the Group of the Modern Centre Party. The National Council does not support the proposal for a rebalancing and the new ZIPRS. The state councillors of the rebalancing did not support the unfulfilled public promises of government representatives to increase the average. The proposal for the new ZIPRS does not address the problem of a low average for 2019. Article 54 of the Law provides for the amount of the average, which has not been amended. On the other hand, the National Assembly provided an additional EUR 32.5 million for this purpose on 13 December. Therefore, denying the support of the law is totally incomprehensible. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we point out that the budget, by its nature, is a kind of legal and financial policy act. It shall show all the revenue and expenditure of the State. When adopting the budget, the National Assembly shall have a clear field of political discretion. However, the law governing the implementation of the budget is a direct condition for the implementation of the budget. Therefore, the suspension veto could prevent the implementation of budgets or the rebalancing. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that the State Council does not have the constitutional authority to interfere with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We propose that the amendment of the Public Finance Act lay down the standards necessary for the current and smooth implementation of the budget and that others be regulated in accordance with Article 87 of the Constitution in the form of a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr Primož Siter on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Recent amendments to the Law on the implementation of the budgets for 2018 and 2019 reflect numerous efforts of the Left. We have ended with a long-standing period of over-saving when workers and the weakest were paying for the mistakes of banks and private companies that caused the crisis. While the ZIPRS provides part of the funds for the reconciliation of pensions, funds for raising public sector salaries and increasing the number of labour inspectors have been allocated, the freezing of the coordination of social transfers for individuals and households has been abolished, budgetary increases for municipalities and health care have been guaranteed. These are small steps, but they are by no means sufficient. In the future, a further fight is needed to raise pensions that will enable pensioners to live a decent life. During the period 2010 to 2017, pensioners lost 319 million euros due to savings. All of this has led to an unsustainable situation when 266 000 pensioners receive pensions below EUR 600, which is below the poverty line. This is a group that should no longer be neglected in the future. Nor can we afford to continue neglecting the penitentiaries. Instead of talking again about the tax burdens of 10% of the most wealthy, we should discuss how to improve the situation of the worst-paid. Managers' elites, senior health professionals and senior public administration officials are already being paid off, for example, to fine-tempered workers who are forced to work through external contractors, unfortunately not. In Levica, we have recently warned, for example, about the extreme use of cleaners, which were carried out through an external contractor at the Ministry of Public Administration. They did not receive salaries for their work for two months, for overtime and work during the weekend, without contracts. We have repeatedly warned that this is not just a case of individual offenders. Let us recall the violations in Manicom, Beki plus and Cleaning companies, if we limit ourselves only to external cleaning. External service delivery involves systemic social dumping. By doing so, private companies and public institutions are lowering their costs by beating workers' rights, by weakening working conditions. Such exploitation practices must be put to an end. The basic condition for improving the situation of outsourced workers and fine-tuning workers is the strengthening of the labour inspection. While we are pleased that ZIPRS provides the employment of 10 additional inspectors, it is not enough to warn us. Over the past few years, the number of business operators has been increasing, while the number of labour inspectors has been decreasing. Employee inspectors are not able to handle all applications across the way, which is 6 000 500 a year, and their content is becoming more complex. The scope of work has been increasing at least since 2005 when the IRSD became a criminal programme. In order to better address the problem of systematic violations of labour law, a more determined fight will be needed in the future against the staffing and financial sustainability of the labour inspection. But even tightening the rules and controls will not be enough. Systemic infringements committed by workers performing work with external operators must be resolved systematically. ZIPRS does not address these issues sufficiently. The fight for the rights of the most exploited workers is far from over. ZIPRS will only allow for the employment of a small number of workers who work with external operators, although full employment, including all the rights that are entitled to work, is earned by everyone. Finally, it is necessary to mention the controversial article 68a, by which the coalition sought to provide a Bianca menu for arms purchases or anything else. It then restricted itself to the amendment, but still remains a vignette for spending the budget reserve for the Presidency of the EU Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I note that, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled and we are thus concluding a second reading of this law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. By this I interrupt, Your Honor and Your Honor, this item of the agenda. By this we pass, honourable Members and Members, on 8. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed unfair procedure law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to complete the explanation, I ask the Minister responsible, Mrs Andrejo Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The current Law on Unfair Procedure was adopted in 1986 and has never been amended to date. The proposal for a new law, which is before you today, is one of the key normative measures that we need to take in order to put into practice the reform of the family legislation that was drawn up in early 2017 with the adoption of the Family Code, which has been re-organized by family substantive relations and which has fully transferred the power to decide in family matters from social work centres to the courts. This law lays down the rules of the judicial procedure under which these relations will be governed after 15 April 2019. The main objective we have pursued is to ensure more effective protection of the rights of all participants in the process, in particular children and other persons who are not able to take care of their rights and interests themselves. In cases where parents are unable or unwilling to protect the child’s benefits, the State must do so instead. With the solutions proposed, we improve the situation of children in family relations both between the proceedings and after the completion of the procedure. The right to have an opinion is the right of the child and it is not necessary for the child to express his or her opinion if he or she does not wish to do so. The new provision is that he may also express his opinion in an interview with the child's advocate, who has been appointed in accordance with the law governing the Ombudsman. The child’s opinion may be expressed in an informal procedure to judges, including through the participation of a qualified person, not at the hearing and without the presence of the parents. It also lays down in the foreground the principle duty of the court to determine all the relevant circumstances, irrespective of the proposed evidence of the parties. The second objective is an integrated and unified solution to all key family relationships. The new regime will allow the entire family situation to be decided in accordance with the same procedural rules before the same really competent court and, as a rule, before the same competent judge. This eliminates the division so far that in certain family-related matters the courts of general jurisdiction decide on some of the rules of administrative procedure of social work centres, the Ministry of Labour and later the Administrative Court. Not only the court, but also the parties to the proceedings and other persons involved in the proceedings must endeavour to ensure that the rights and legal interests of the participants are identified and protected as soon as possible. As a third objective, the role of social work centres according to their competence under the Family Code and their expertise shall be duly placed in the proceedings. Despite the fact that the decision-making authority is fully transferred to the court to protect the child's benefits in these proceedings, the role of social work centres is crucial. Centres, as proponents or legal participants, will make an important contribution to the effective protection of children and other persons who cannot take care of their rights and interests on their own. In particular, the position of the centres is strengthened in decision-making procedures on child protection measures in which their statements and the hearings of their professional worker are considered to be statements by a person with specific expertise on the facts. The draft law, the honourable Members and Members before you, compared to the regulation in force today, also contains other amendments and adjustments that have proved necessary; either because of the amended regulation in the applicable substantive legislation that affects the regulation of individual illegal procedures, or because of changes that eliminate uneven judicial practice in the implementation of the law, while maintaining the structure and the nomotechnics of the current UN. The general provisions of the law also propose changes towards greater substantive decision-making, stressing the role of a judge who is allowed to adopt procedurally the most appropriate regulation in the light of the specific circumstances and in the light of the protection of persons who are obliged to be protected under official duty. Exceptional remedies are being reformed in unfair proceedings, giving an appropriate place to the role of the Supreme Court, which, after a new audit, will also have the possibility of unifying and ensuring its development in unfair procedures. Large-scale reforms, such as the reform of family legislation, urgently cover three segments: the normative part, organisational measures and education, and the preparation of key stakeholders for a new regime. I believe and will also try to ensure that all stakeholders take on their share of the responsibility and responsibilities in these procedures, as this is the only way to bring all new solutions to life in practice. For this reason, I have decided at the Ministry of Justice to set up a special implementation group of the CFSP-1, which is composed of all key stakeholders and will monitor the implementation of this new law and report on good practices that will be developed on this basis, as well as on the shortcomings that may appear in its implementation. To all those who have participated in the drafting of the law, I thank and propose that you, honourable Members and Members, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Minister for your presentation. The mother's working body is the Justice Committee. I give my word to the vice president, mag. Meiri Hot. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! At its 6th regular meeting on 14 February, the Committee on Justice considered the draft law on unfair procedure submitted by the Government to the Assembly for its consideration. In a supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant, Justice Minister Andrej Katič, said that the proposed law was one of the key measures in order to put into practice the reform of the family legislation he had drawn up in early 2017 to adopt the Family Code. This competence for decision-making on family matters was almost fully transferred from the social work centres to the courts and also established certain new jurisdiction of the courts, while strengthening the professional, advisory and support role of social work centres. The aim of the law's proposal in the remaining parts is to make the necessary necessary adjustments in view of the amended regulation in the current legislation affecting the regulation of individual unfair proceedings, as well as changes in the uniform case law in the implementation of the law, while maintaining the structure of the applicable law and the specific procedures governed by other laws remain regulated in the sectoral laws. In the presentation of their written legal opinion, the representative of the legislative and legal service, Katarina King, said that the proposed law was well prepared and fully justified in terms of their powers. Most of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service are duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the Coalition Group and additional written explanations have been provided by the Ministry of Justice. Again, she pointed out that the proposal for a law must be adopted and enforced no later than 15 April this year, in order not to create a conflict between substantive and procedural regulation of family law. State Councillor Rajko Fajt presented the opinion of the State Council Commission on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law, as a prerequisite for the successful implementation of the Family Code is necessary. This raises the question to the members of the Commission whether, given the delegated powers and the increased scope of work in the family departments of the courts, the proceedings will proceed smoothly. They also noted the lack of forensic experts in clinical psychology and psychiatry and expressed fear that court proceedings would be extended and encouraged. The Commission also considers that, when preparing the bill, insufficient attention has been given to classical unfair proceedings and that there could be difficulties in their implementation in practice. The representative of the Slovenian Bar Association Tanja Marušič presented comments already made by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia in the process of preparing a legal proposal; for example, regarding participants in the proceedings, the amount of fees, compensation. In doing so, she reiterated the need to professionalise representation in unfair proceedings, in particular in child welfare procedures and to put an adult under guardianship. In this regard, the representatives of the applicant said that the extensive replies and clarifications of the applicant to the comments and concerns of the Slovenian Chamber of Counsel were contained in the opening part of the legislative material and were partly corrected by the amendments tabled. Again, they explained a different, active role of the judge in unfair proceedings. The Committee was also informed of the written opinion of the Court of Justice, which points out that the financial consequences of the transfer of powers in family matters to the courts were not sufficiently evaluated at the time of the adoption of the Family Code, nor was the proposal for a law under consideration. The Court also draws attention to the chronic lack of forensic experts in the clinicalpsychological and pedopsychiatric professions, which has a negligible impact on the duration and quality of judicial proceedings and will also be affected by inadequate support programmes of social work centres. In the debate, Members were particularly interested in the staff readiness of the courts to new competences, also pointing out the lack of forensic experts in the clinicalpsychological and pedopsychiatric professions. They also raised the issue of equality of partnership and marriage in unfair proceedings. Representatives of the proposer, the Supreme Court and the Community of Centres for Social Work have provided further clarifications on the preparation for the implementation of the family reform, which covers both the adoption of all the necessary normative grounds and the organisational and human resources measures within the courts and social work centres and the education and preparation of key stakeholders for the new regime. The Committee then adopted amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus groups. The Committee then voted on all articles in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and adopted the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Maša Kociper, Party Group Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As has already been said, the adoption of the bill on unfair procedure is a necessary prerequisite for the effective implementation of the Family Code. The proposal for a new law will replace the law in force, which was adopted in 1986 and has never been specifically amended to date. As already stated, the Family Code was adopted in March 2017 and will enter into force in a good month. The law introduces a reform of family legislation whereby you are almost fully transferred from the social work centres to the courts, as explained by the Minister. It is therefore necessary to regulate the legal basis for the decision of the courts. The provisions on judicial procedures governing family relations must be adapted in a timely manner. According to the applicant’s assessment, it is most appropriate to apply the provisions of an unfair procedure, the most appropriate arrangement for the protection of children’s interests. In fact, in the family relationship, it is not a matter of resolving some particular one-off disputes, but of creating legal relations between people who will continue to live and cooperate in one way or another. Therefore, it is particularly important that it strives to reach agreements between the parties in the proceedings, so our Group of Members has been supporting mediation procedures at various stages of these disputes and matters. Compared to a fair trial, the unfair has several advantages: milder formal requirements, faster procedure and greater flexibility. While it is true that some of the shortcomings of this new arrangement will be demonstrated only over time, it would not be possible to establish the Family Code without the adoption of the amendment. We will face a disagreement between the material and procedural arrangements in this area. The transfer of competences in the Family Code aims to improve the resolution of matters and to improve the protection of the benefit of children in these processes. The proposal, inter alia, asserts the right of children to express their views if they so wish and to have the right to defend themselves. It is also important that in such matters the principle of the greatest benefit of children is repeatedly and explicitly stressed, as all international organisations also stress. Thus, the benefits of those who are not able to take care of themselves and cannot effectively represent their rights. In addition, long-term and complex procedures can have a significant impact on the development of a child and the protection of the benefit of children is a fundamental principle of family law. In the area of family relations, these are often very delicate and complex situations that are unpleasant for all participants. And the fact that the whole case will be dealt with in a new manner in a single court and under the same procedural rules will, hopefully, contribute to a faster and more coordinated procedure. The bill will raise the quality of decision-making, let's hope, as such cases will be decided by independent and impartial judges who, on official duty, must protect the benefit of a weaker participant in the proceedings. A faster epilogue in family matters will also enable courts to decide on previous issues as this will reduce the number of interruptions. Despite the transfer of jurisdiction to the courts, the advisory and support of social work centres will be strengthened, which will further help to protect the benefit of children. In view of everything that is said in the SAB Group, we will support the proposal for a law. We hope, however, that all the necessary staffing and other conditions will be provided for the courts to be able to assume their new powers and to ensure that a sufficient number of experts and all other support staff are provided to carry out these procedures in a qualitative manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Mr Jurij Lep on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Unfair Procedure has already been passed in 1986 and has not yet been amended. While some other laws have intervened in certain areas, this time we have before us a proposal for a new Law on Unfair Procedure. Despite the fact that the marriage is over 30 years old and it has been a time to update it, the main reason for the adoption of the new law is two years ago of the Family Code, which will begin to apply in April of this year. This is a new subject of family legal relations. From now on, in all family matters, decisions will be made in the courts and in almost all the substantive relations governed by the Family Code, according to the rules of unfair procedure, a new decision will be taken. This process will best protect the benefits of children who will have to be given an absolute advantage in deciding on family matters. Social work centres will play an important role in the proceedings as they will provide professional assistance to the courts. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to have before us a proposal for a law that has been given broad professional and public debate. The proposer has coordinated the text of the law for almost a year with different stakeholders, and we can really say that much has been done. The proposed solutions benefit from broad support, and a number of preparations are already under way for the implementation of the law in practice. In the Desus Group, we believe that all these activities will contribute to the effective application of both the Family Code and the Unfair Procedure Act. By transferring family decisions from social work centres to the courts, courts and judges are given greater power in their decision-making, which, of course, also leads to responsibility, in particular with regard to the protection of the weakest in such proceedings, this is a child and also other persons who are not able to take care of their rights and interests themselves. This creates, inter alia, the right to an opinion and the right to defend. However, when the whole family situation is dealt with before one court under the rules of one procedure, the procedures will be concluded more quickly, as expected by the proposer. In the Desus Group, however, we are also asked whether it will be true whether the courts will be even more burdened after a new one and the proceedings will continue for a longer period of time. Last but not least, the Council of Justice points out, among other things, that the expectation of a greater number of cases belongs to the court and the chronic lack of experts in the clinicalpsychological and pedopsychiatric professions. This will certainly have an important impact on the duration and quality of the proceedings. In this area, much more will have to be done in the future in order to obtain experts who will provide the Court with additional knowledge in handling family matters. So there will be no shortage of challenges and activities in the future. In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following position will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Nobleni on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u30	Nice hello to you all! The Law or the Bill of Unjust Procedure is fine and I think it is made very well. But it's one thing that's very controversial. This is Article 95, which provides that a child who is able to understand the importance of the procedure and the consequences of the decision has the right to express his or her opinion, but the problem arises because, inter alia, it is stipulated that, due to the child’s benefit, the court may decide not to allow parents to look into the record or to listen or to the video to avoid the parent’s view. What are we gonna do? Parents are those who care for children, which means that they have obligations and rights relating to the care of the child’s life and health, his upbringing, development, protection, care, supervision of the child and the education of the child. In addition, they have an obligation and rights relating to the representation and survival of the child and the management of his or her property. It is said that children are under the protection of their parents, which means that parents must have the right to look into their child’s statements and be informed of what their children are doing, since otherwise they cannot carry out their parental care. In addition, the right to a declaration of parents as parties to a procedure shall be infringed. The Court must give each party the opportunity to declare the indications and requests of the counterparty. Here is the prerequisite for the exercise of this right, so that the party may be made aware of the proceedings of the counterparty and the court. However, the law, which is adopted, unduly interferes with the right of parents to a declaration in proceedings and therefore goes too far to the detriment of the constitutional procedural guarantees of parents. The practice of the European Court of Human Rights is such that it does not allow so far-reaching restrictions or so far-reaching restrictions on the rights of the parties to justice to be made aware of the procedural material affecting the decision of the court. We are therefore adopting a law which is contrary to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Article 95. In our opinion, we could have taken over the system peacefully, following the example of neighbouring Austria. Parents there, for the sake of their children’s benefit, are forbidden to be present at the hearing of the child, but parents have an insight into what the children have said. The same opinion of the child is not given confidentiality in America, Scotland and so on. In short, we are inventing again because I do not know who, perhaps because of some pedophile's difficulties, some lady and, above all, gentlemen in certain situations, is being introduced in this Article 95. I think it's absolutely necessary to delete that. It must also be said that the Supreme Court in Ljubljana has already decided that the court of the child's parent must take note of the essential content of the informal interview. But here's the problem. The Supreme Court has imposed something and has said that we are now turning this into damage and contrary to the trends of the European Court of Human Rights. This reminds me of the time in the Soviet Union when in the then Stalinist system, children were asked to sneer and sneak in and report to their parents. Cases are known when the children poisoned their parents, who then took them to camps and did not come back from the camps. There are a number of cases where the villagers killed this child because of his parents ’ insinuation. Do we want to do this now in Slovenia? I think Slovenia is going this way, but at least here, let's do something and delete this stupid 95th. My friend is smiling here, but the historical facts are terrible and I don't want us to go to Slovenia this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will present the position of the Magi on its behalf. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u32	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and viewers watching us behind small screens! The government is proposing a new one, given the number of articles, a fairly extensive Law on Unfair Procedure, which will replace the UNP in force adopted in 1986 and has been amended several times so far. According to the applicant, the key reason for the adoption of the new Unfair Procedure Act is the adoption of the Family Code, which is already in force on 15 April 2019, whereby courts will decide in unfair proceedings in all family law. In other words, the adoption of a new UNP is a prerequisite for the successful implementation of the Family Code. This time dimension has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, since the bill must be enforced no later than this date, since otherwise there may be major discrepancies between substantive and procedural regulation of family law. In the main part, the Family Code has delegated jurisdiction to the courts in family matters from social work centres to determine certain new jurisdiction of the courts. The objectives of the applicant were: to improve the situation of children in family relations, both during the proceedings and after the completion of the procedure or to ensure more effective implementation of the child protection principle; to improve the resolution of matters in the family area relevant to the decision on measures to protect the benefit of the child; and, at the same time, to allow for a uniform treatment of the whole family situation before the same court under the rules of one judicial procedure; to place the Centre for Social Work in a manner consistent with their role, as established by the Family Code, which strengthened their professional, advisory and supporting role in judicial proceedings. The proposal to pursue the improvement of the interests of children in family relations and thus their benefits, as well as the increased protection of the interests of other persons who cannot protect their rights and benefits themselves, is, of course, essential and necessary, and we do not have any comments in this part of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we note such a legislative solution. At the same time, however, we note that the major transfer of administrative cases from the social work centres to the courts will be a significant increase in the scope of work in the family courts. This is why the new employment of both judges and additional judicial staff is already being announced, which will, of course, bring additional budgetary burdens. At this point, however, it is not clear whether these funds for these new tasks will be provided at all. What the big fallout of the new cases will mean for the efficiency and smooth work of the family judges will show time, but the warnings of some legal experts on judicial backlogs are in place. For example, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia National Regulation Commission has pointed out that there is a risk that proceedings will be brought before the courts and that greater use of judicial experts will undermine proceedings. In view of the urgency of the case, such warnings are of course of concern. The bill was primarily designed to comply with the Family Code, but it also regulates classical unfair procedures, which, according to our assessment, have been given little attention, so they can later develop problems in the implementation of the law itself. Certain shortcomings regarding classical unfair proceedings were also noted in the Bar, but were not heard in all their comments. Justice Minister Andrej Katič herself said at the meeting of the Justice Committee on 14 February 2019 that it would certainly be difficult to ensure that there would be no difficulties in implementing this law. For all the reasons mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not oppose the proposal of the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Nina Maurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected! In view of the major changes introduced in the area of family regulation by the new Family Code, and with or with the fact that the Law on Unfair Procedure in force had been adopted a long time ago, the applicant rightly decided to regulate this area in its entirety and to prepare a new Law on Unfair Procedure. We welcome, of course, the adoption of the new Unfair Procedure Act in the Marjan Sarca Group of Members for the reason that the new law will finally allow for a uniform treatment of the entire family situation before the same court and under the rules of one court. The transfer of family cases to court certainly constitutes a significantly greater guarantee to ensure the benefit of the child, which, as we know, must be the main guide in all proceedings governing the family situation. The proposed changes mainly follow improvements in the situation of children both during the process and following the completion of the procedure. The added value of the new law is also that it defines the appropriate placement of social work centres in these processes in a way that ensures and strengthens their professional and advisory tasks. In addition to this, the main objective of the new law is to resolve matters more quickly in the family field, which is of particular importance in the protection of the child’s benefit. One of the important objectives of the law is also to ensure that the parties have greater access to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in an unfair process through an approved audit. In the remaining parts, the new law regulates those urgent adjustments required by the amended regulation in the current legislation which affects the regulation of individual specific unfair proceedings and also provides for amendments that will allow the elimination of the uniform case law in the implementation of the law. In view of all the above, we will support the new Law on Unfair Procedure in the Group of the Letters of Marjana Sharca.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Meira Hot on behalf of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Your Honor and Your Honor! A key reason for the adoption of the Law on Unfair Procedure is the new Family Code, which regulates family law in a new way and passes decisions on family matters from social work centres to the courts. The adoption of the Unfair Procedure Act will adapt the provisions of the new family law procedure, all with a view to improving the situation of children in family situations. Family relationships are sensitive matter because it involves children. Because of their low age and emotional, the body’s inadequacy makes them more vulnerable to exploitation, abuse and manipulation, and it is essential that children be protected as much as possible and offered protection in all possible areas. This must be based on the fundamental principle of family law, which is the principle of the child's benefit, which must be taken into account by all subjects of family law. For some time now, the profession has warned that the children’s rights and benefits will be most taken care of if family matters are regulated systematically in one place and in one process. The choice of unfair proceedings is so appropriate as the unfair procedure is not so strictly formal and just, it is more flexible, flexible. In many cases, the purpose of the unfair procedure is not to resolve the dispute between the two parties, but to create legal relations that are by nature long-term and usually between people who must continue to live with each other. This improves the situation of children through new legislation, as it establishes the right to an opinion, the right to defend it, the uniform treatment of family cases before one court and the rules of one procedure. The adoption of the law will thus allow for a faster resolution of family matters, which is particularly important when deciding on measures to protect the child's benefit, as it may have too long a process for the child and its further development irreparable consequences. The role of social work centres in proceedings shall also be more appropriately placed through unfair proceedings, in a manner consistent with their role as defined by the Family Code, which strengthened their professional, advisory and supporting role in judicial proceedings. We are, of course, aware that the transfer of powers from centres to social work to the courts will bring a greater caseload to the courts and thus increase the scope of work in the family departments of the courts. While it is very difficult to predict how many new cases there will be, it is very difficult to prepare for the new tasks in the Supreme Court by April 2017. The courts will also need additional judges and judicial staff, and additional posts have already been requested in the courts for this purpose. At this point, however, one of the problems that has already been faced today, which has been lingering for quite some time, namely the lack of forensic experts, especially clinical psychologists, psychiatrists, especially experts in the field of pedopsychiatrics. In sensitive family procedures, it is all the more important that matters be resolved quickly. The main guide in these procedures is and must be the child's benefit. An expert opinion is one of the important evidence that helps the court to make the right decision. If obtaining an expert opinion lasts too long, this will result in a process, which will certainly mean the hardship and uncertainty of children and parents. One of the key measures is, of course, the increase in the number of forensic experts in clinical psychology and psychiatry. This should also provide financial resources for their specialisation, so we are pleased that the Ministry of Justice has recently adopted a number of conclusions or commitments on how to address these serious issues and that they are already preparing legal bases for the systematic implementation and financing of specialisations for clinical psychologists, and also cooperates with other departments, the Ministry of Health, finance and the Supreme Court. In addition to family law procedures, the new Unfair Procedure Act also amends the general provisions on unfair proceedings. It will be more substantive, and the obligation to terminate the proceedings shall be lifted if a disputed preliminary question arises. According to the new court, this issue will have to be resolved only, which will have an important impact on the speed of the proceedings. The role of the judge will also be highlighted and the possibility of a missed audit is also being introduced. We support the Social Democrats because of the proposal for an unfair procedure law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the site of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u38	Good-bye! I'm not going to torture you, we've listened six times to how great and good this Real Law code is, so I'm not going to have these intros so we don't have to repeat ourselves. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the facts which have been an open question for the SMC Group and which we have also clarified on the Committee. Article 10, which also mentions the basis on which the Real Law Code will apply, or certain legislation, and given that this law mentions only the Family Code, the question has been raised, since this is not the only marriage that exists in this country, there is also a marriage of same-sex partners, which is why we also have the Partnership Act. The dilemma was, in particular, simple: how and when and how the rights of children who are either in such partnership and any other relationship for which the Law of Law or – I am sorry – the Law on Unjust Procedure is, of course, a basic basis for us to implement both laws and laws. So, all the open questions. These assurances have been made, and I therefore believe that the SMC Group has received a clear answer to support the law itself. There is, however, an urgent need to say this, of course, still an open dilemma, when we will eliminate the discriminatory distinction between same-sex partners and other heterosexual partners who do not enjoy equal rights. As we know, social and economic rights with the Partnerships Act have become equal, they have become equal, but for two rights – adoption and biomedical fertilisation of women, and there has been no obedience in this country. Nor do I believe that the National Assembly will at any time reach this high level of agreement that it will ever accept it. Therefore, here the question on the ground when the Constitutional Court will deal with this issue and, as in all normal developed countries, democracy has also learned that equality before the law under article 14 of the Constitution does not constitute certain exceptions. This also means a high level to finally make Slovenia one of the countries with which we like to boast that we are equal and to sum up their legal order. For example, in 2017, Germany had already allowed the adoption of children to an same-sex couple and thus proved that nothing epochal, nothing revolutionary had happened, but what happened was usually the case in normal countries of course. We will support the law and thus make it possible to live the basic two laws, which are why we are also coordinating this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next Mr Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! The Law on Unfair Procedure, which we are considering today, is actually the technical implementation of the Family Code, which was adopted in 2017. The Family Code of Support of the Left was not then granted because it continues to discriminate against same-sex couples, which are not yet included in the Roof Family Code. A special Partnership Act has been adopted for same-sex couples, which in itself is proof that we are not yet given equal treatment in society today. However, equal treatment and the definitive elimination of discrimination on a proposal from the Left in 2015 even failed the legislative procedure, but was then rejected by the Constitutional Court, which allowed majority decision on minority rights and by means of the right-wing apprehension at the referendum. The same-sex couples thus continue to suffer systemic discrimination in that part of the Family Code that we opposed in Levica. However, we agreed with that part that is the basis for today's Bill of Unjust Procedure. This is the transfer of competences to decide family matters from social work centres to courts and to determine certain new jurisdiction of the courts. These are large-scale changes, which are certainly a major challenge. We had the most concerns here in Levica. We are talking about very sensitive procedures, everything since the removal of parental rights, adoption, foster care, child protection, divorce and so on, so it is all the more important that the system works without major problems. In this regard, we have also asked a number of questions on the Committee and we have received some assurances from the Ministry that they do not expect major problems. In order to regulate the staffing reinforcements of the courts, that the coordination was long-term and that all stakeholders were involved and that the courts were substantively and professionally well prepared for the application of the Family Code, we were also confirmed by the committee. In Levi, we certainly hope that this is true and that after April 14, there will be no major problems. In Levica, we will support the Bill on Unfair Procedure, but we will certainly monitor what will happen in practice with the implementation of the Family Code. We also expect the competent ministries to resolve the problem of the lack of experts in the relevant profession as soon as possible. We will uphold the law on unfair proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will be presented as the last position of NSI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u42	Have a good day, all of you! As has already been said by many of my predecessors, it is a matter of continuing to adopt the Family Code, but in Novi Slovenija we have already confirmed the Family Code here in the National Assembly, talking or raising the question of how the courts, in view of other backlogs, will be able to conduct all the procedures in family matters that will be transferred to them from social work centres. This issue remains crucial today, and remains open at least in this part. The judges themselves pointed out that they were underqualified for these procedures, given that they were minors and very sensitive interference with their vulnerable personality. The main provisions of the Family Code will apply on 15 April this year and are still in a bit of a hurry. By 15 April, a new law on the illegal procedure must be adopted, as this means practical implementation of the solutions to the Code. Today we are in New Slovenia as we were then, but even more confident that we were right. The Court itself draws attention to the high likelihood of major judicial backlogs and their irritation due to the need for more judicial experts. The case-law of these proceedings will be much larger than that assessed by the applicant at the time of the adoption of the Family Code itself. The lack of clinical psychologists in family procedures will also become critical. We already have only 12 such experts in Slovenia. The Ministry of Health has been familiar with this problem for several years, but it seems that it also closes its eyes and does not sign off on specializations in this area. How, then, are we prepared to apply the provisions of the Family Code and the new law on the illegal procedure? In New Slovenia, we attach to the proposaler that an unfair procedure for the protection of the interests of children is more appropriate, as it is not subject to strict rules of legal procedure. Single treatment of the entire family situation before the same court, and this under the rules of one court procedure, certainly means better implementation of the child protection principle. This principle has basically led to interference with family relations, so we welcome the provision allowing a child to be present when interviewed at a social work centre or by a judge who trusts and chooses the child, or by his or her advocate if he or she has been assigned to the child on the basis of the law itself. On the other hand, we also have parents who may be prevented by the court from looking at the record of the conversation with the child. Such excessive interference with the right of parents to a declaration is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion, which refers to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. If the court takes the child’s opinion into account in its decision, the Court should also inform the parents of the essential content of the discussion as a party to the proceedings. If I can sum it up. In Novi Slovenija, we are convinced that the application of the Family Code and the enforcement of the Law on Unlawful Procedure will lead to large backlogs in the area of family relations and will raise a number of new issues related to family naming as basic social cells. We will therefore not support the draft law in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting, in the framework of the vote, and will also end this agenda item and the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 11.45. (The sitting was suspended at 10.26 p.m. and resumed at 11.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u44	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. Before we actually continue, let me welcome our guests today, who have just joined us on the balcony of the hall. Your Excellency, Honourable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Austria, Mag. Wolfgang Sobotka with delegation, welcome to the Slovenian temple of democracy. I'm glad you've responded to my invitation to an official visit. This clearly represents an excellent opportunity to further consolidate our friendly and widely diversified relations between countries and nations, as confirmed by today's official talks by both delegations. We wish you a successful stay of visit and a pleasant stay in Slovenia. Now, with respect and respect, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in the following order: third, fourth, second, fifth, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth and first items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposed decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the third point, this is the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our vote! We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, this is for the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2019. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u45	Do I explain or procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u46	He's got an advantage in the process. Mr Bran Golubovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to take a 30-minute recess on behalf of the Group of Members before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u48	Didn't I hear, Member, 20 or 30 minutes? 30 minutes. I'm adjourning the 30-minute recess session. We'll resume at 12.20. (The sitting was suspended at 11.51 and resumed at 12.20)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is with the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 26. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. This means that we are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2019. We are moving to budget user 1537 – Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Support for Slovenians in place and around the world. Mrs Ludmila Novak on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u50	The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment because we are convinced that the Slovenians Office has received very little money in this budget rebalancing. The position for the office was raised by only 0.29 per cent, by a good EUR 25 000 700, which is precisely for the repair of employees' salaries. By doing so, we give a bad signal to our Slovenians in place and around the world that we spend so little extra money on the Slovenian Office at the time of the abundant budget and abundant income. That's not a good message. That's why we prepared this amendment. I know that the coalition Members also support this, but we know how this is voted in Parliament. I was hoping that this realization would come to light, that it did not matter what signals we give to our foreigners, to the Slovenes in place and around the world, and that we would accept an increase in the budget with this amendment. I still hope and recommend that we all support this amendment. This will not substantially reverse the budget's balance, but we will make a very good symbolic move.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Bevk only, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yesterday I called as a Member when we discussed the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to raise the item by 500 000 euros on the programme of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. I said that I am contentious and that I agree that the problem is where these funds are being taken. The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats will not support this amendment, but in the light of the practice of past mandates, we have done so many times already in the case of the Office of the Slovenians for Replacement and the World and have already proposed to the Government that some of the things that are necessary for the implementation of the programmes of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Relations with Slovenians in place and around the world would be provided from the budget reserve. You can look at the archives. It's happened many times. We have not succeeded with the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly, but the Government has ensured that these funds will be reserved and ordered to the Office that it be able to fully implement its programme. The fact is that more than half a million Slovenians and Slovenians live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia and say that we are not interested in this matter would be a false message to our people who live in housing, home and evicted. I therefore propose that the Government consider this proposal and specifically agree with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia on how to resolve this flaw. As I said yesterday, the biggest loser of this rebalancing for 2019 is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Only EUR 25,744 received more resources, while other sources received between EUR 750 000 and EUR 143 million more to operate in 2019. As the Group of Social Democrats has said, it will not support this amendment, but calls on the Government to resolve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your explanation. This brings us to the vote. Just let me do it again. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, the sub-programme Support to Slovenians in place and around the world. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1911 – Ministry of Defence. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Equipment and Infrastructure. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a budget user in 1912 – the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Operation of the Rescue and Assistance System. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We are moving to the budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and deciding on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes with the budgetary user. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme to support technological development projects, which is to decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and we are deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 50. [[For the vote 29]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, and deciding on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads, which is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads, which is to decide on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. Mr Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. With this amendment, we propose to increase or add an item for the construction of three bonds by EUR 930 000. This is on the bypass of Velika Lašče, on the rim of Ribnica and the roadway of Kočevje. All the things I'm talking about have been delivered to the Ministry with the signature of 13 mayors since 2000, I think at the end of March. Since then, the procedures for placing these shells have virtually no place to move. The government's response is now that things are partly ongoing, but somewhere I don't know where. It is high time for the National Assembly to decide that the traffic - dangerous sections, where the main road mainly runs through settlements, take about 7 km of roads across Ribnica, where there is a limit of more than or less than 50 km per hour. He's passing school, passing through all these important institutions. I think it is completely irresponsible of the Government, the Ministry of Infrastructure and also the coalition Members, especially those who know this, not to support such an amendment. Despite the slow pace of traffic, as restrictions may be, something must be done to address these potential risks and to improve the flow of traffic, especially freight traffic through settlements such as Ribnica and Velika Lašče, as well as Kočevje. The freight traffic is increasing. Personal transport is increasing because there are many of these day-to-day migrations. In fact, it is unacceptable that in almost 20 years the matter has not moved anywhere. The initial years are still understood because these pre-pre-preparation procedures, placement analyses, variant analyses, variant studies and so on are needed. But in 20 years, if it doesn't work out differently, the amendment has to be arranged. I propose that the Members support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And Mr. Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u56	President, thank you for your word. I have to say here that I agree with the predecessor. Those who have little knowledge of the situation in traffic have probably also heard that this whole relationship is the road of death. Statistics show that there are still serious traffic accidents. It is also irrelevant to talk about how this road has burdened itself through the tourist season, because more people use this link when they take to the sea, both to Kvarner and to Dalmatia. In Croatia, they are immediately joining the highway cross, so this road is becoming increasingly burdened. I absolutely agree with what the predecessor said, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Allow me to read again to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors by number 2. We're moving to the vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. I'm sorry. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, in this case, it's part of the road on the route about three kilometers, for which all the projects are prepared. This part has also been drawn since, as I said earlier, since 2000, and there is no rational need for bus stations to be set up or improved on a three-kilometre scale, where settlements and restrictions themselves, and to make a sidewalk to the end of these settlements. It's about Ribnica, Breg and Gritch. Interestingly, in its reply, the Government has written that the amendment is technically feasible, only that it does not agree with the source of the withdrawal of funds for these 200 000 euros. Now I ask all those of you who are in your right mind, do you really believe that in an 11 billion budget where members of the coalition have not been included, it is not possible to find 200 000 euros for the regulation of a road? You can't even find that. I feel like there's a pope at the Ministry of Finance and there's a god sitting on the government. Nothing's possible. If you look at it like that and vote like that in the budget, I can't get rid of the feeling like you're dogmatics yourself. It's like there's really nothing to change. There cannot be such a budget and such approaches. It will also have to be understood that we are Members here, not by typing, you do not need any elections, but that we are preparing proposals and making decisions. The preparation of proposals for the budget or for acts or the introduction of laws is not a crime, as some of you have tried to say in the debates, this is a task, our task. And now all those who have done nothing to submit or have not proposed any amendments to the budget, do not carry out your tasks. Do not perform! I'm just wondering what happens when two, three compulsory children are injured or even worse at a section where bus stops are not being set up. We will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you. Allow me to read again to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 4. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 5. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 6. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. What we are proposing is the completion of the 2000 proposal, which is the construction of the remaining part of the third belt on the Pijav Gorica-Turjak route or even Rašica route. It is not an important item, but it is an important or exceptional measure. It's about 12 kilometers from the rest of the road. It was built over Piyavo Gorica three miles [13 km] of road, and there is virtually no way to outrun a section on the entire road. The road is in important parts or in most parts impenetrable and has a lot of freight traffic on it. We propose that this million euros be added to join the upgrade, the design of this third-band work. The government has apparently overlooked that this is a matter of relatively old things. Unfortunately, they also apparently missed out on old things at the directorate. What the government has suggested or said in reply that it will do on this road has virtually nothing to do with this section. Those connecting routes in Škofljica, in Pijava Gorica, have absolutely nothing to do with this proposal. As regards the source of funds for the 11 billion budget, however, there is no problem. If, for example, 100,000 euros for the tasks of the public administration of the Ministry of Public Administration have been lost on the public administration, you will be able to provide with any reallocation. Even if this million euro were to fall on an item, the Government could easily transfer it from other sources or from a reserve within the limits of the powers it has. This reference and this reading exercise, which you have had by the coalition Members and the rejection of everything we propose, has nothing to do with the healthy understanding neither with the needs of the environment nor with anything. This area, which is, in fact, very important, as a colleague from Kočev said earlier, does not experience virtually any investment investment in infrastructure, virtually none, for not 100 000 or for a million or for 5 million, nor for nothing, as regards roads or the regulation of these road sections. If you have an insight into this and the possibilities, you can decide. I do not believe, however, because I have worked on a lot of budgets that this budget is so inviolable that it is impossible to change completely nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 6. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 7. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 30 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 8. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 30 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 9. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 30 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 10. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 11. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 12. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 13. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group under order 14. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 15. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 50. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2550 – Ministry of Environment and Space. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Water Management sub-programme. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 51. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2555 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, sub-programme Water Management. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Equal Opportunities and to decision on the amendment tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme of supporting activities in the field of work, family and social affairs. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme. We vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and deciding on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. The first is the sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number one. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number two. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 49. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group under order number three. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Sport infrastructure to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture, and deciding on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. The first is the sub-programme of Cultural Support Activities. We decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to this sub-programme. Mr. Jelinčič, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. It is a transfer of one million euros from migration, international protection and integration to the regulation of the system and cultural support activities. Of the almost EUR 28 million scattered under this budget, it is reasonable to take at least EUR 1 million away from those who are coming to destroy Slovenian culture and give it to those who care for Slovenian culture. If we look at it, the Maribor Gallery will get 32,000 euros for the purchases. That's five times less than that Cerar model for the second track! How many more models could we make for this kind of money, or we could make them, maybe Cerar will make some more models or one of his own. The fact is that it is high time for us to start caring for Slovenian culture, to preserve our cultural heritage, but this current Slovenian government does not appear to be alive. This is bloody sad, because it was already happening during the Italian occupation and then after 1943 during the German occupation, and then later after the Slovenian cultural heritage disappeared. But it has never disappeared as quickly as it is now, since our so-called independence. As this legacy disappears in the current government, only under Cerar was it disappearing faster. I mean, if we keep doing this, we'll soon be gone. Then we will have Moroccan dresses, Algerian cups, cheese cups and similar things in Slovenian museums. That's a hell of a grief. It's about time the Slovenians woke up. Let's do something for our cultural heritage. Let's keep it safe. Let us take that million to those who will have three meals a day, if they demand even five times a day, to those who will clean up their messes, which they will leave in their quarters, and to those who will abuse Slovenia for their black jobs, if time goes on to Europe. I hope they're going to leave and stay there.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Krivec, did you sign up? I'm sorry. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will vote against this amendment, although under the coalition contract it is owned by the cultural sector and I hope that the new candidate for Minister will also receive the support of the National Assembly at Friday's meeting and start his work. As one of the first tasks, he also passed a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. In the area of inheritance, this law lays down two programming frameworks. The first programming set will address the problems in the area of immovable cultural heritage, which is expected to be available for the period 2020-2026 to €32 million. The Seventh Program Set of the So-called Cultural Tolar Act provides an additional EUR 5 million during the same period for purchases of movable cultural heritage, says museum objects and contemporary art. This is how the future will be better in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. As regards this part of the amendment on additional funds for the Maribor Art Gallery, I would of course agree that it is necessary to rebuild. However, I cannot agree with where the money is being taken, and even less with the argument put forward by the applicant. In fact, I would suggest to the proposer that, when he warns or agrees on one hand with the genuine clan of Slovenian culture and on the other hand, the dirty, barbarian migrants that this gallery he is talking about may be visited. They're exhibiting a very nice exhibition right now with the title Don't Look Back, okay? that just challenges things like what we've just heard. With Slovenian authors such as Nika Autor, Jasmina Cibic, Natasa Berk and others, artists from the Middle East also exhibit: Adel Abdessemed, Sarah Abu Abdallah, Massinissa Selmani and so on. Beautiful artists. All of these artists have a much more lucid, real and critical view of reality than all of what we have just heard. So I propose to the proposer that he may visit this gallery so that he can expand his horizons a little before the next time comes with such a debate in the National Assembly. Of course I'll vote against it. But I hope we can find the means to rebuild this gallery as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u67	Here I warn you, this was not an explanation for the vote. Now we are going to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture, and deciding on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme of cultural support activities. We decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. The technical assistance reminds me that we have already voted on what I have read, so I sincerely apologize to you and therefore we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. The vote was 30 to 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We did not vote on amendment number 1 tabled by SDS. You said earlier that you had made an amendment to the SNS. Amendment number 1 at this point is SDS and EUR 250,000.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u69	Yeah, I read it wrong. To be perfectly clear, we will vote once again on the amendment of the SDS Group's Ambassador to the Sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities under number 1. An explanation, Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. In Ribnica we have a public institution which has public authority in the field of museum and other activities. Work for seven municipalities and the country for this activity gives only 11% of the annual national money, for comparable institutions elsewhere in Slovenia over 60% for the activity of the institution. When I asked in my question why, the answer was that, because they had a mandate only from 2011 or 2013, they could not have it before because they were not set up. However, if they have a public mandate to operate, they shall be subject to the same funding as any other institution that fulfils the same conditions. We therefore propose that the budget line be amended for this money written here. This time we have proposed that resources for this budget item should be provided from the fields of culture, namely art programmes. Two institutions are financed from these artistic programs: the Institute of Mask and the Institute of Aksioma. Both of these institutions acquired more than €7 million from the State source during a comparable period as the Ribnica Rokodel Centre. At that time, Axioma received a million 800 and the Mask received 4 million euros. This is said to be more than €5 million. Ribnica Handicrafts Centre acquires approximately EUR 25,30 000 per year for the exercise of public authority, while these two institutions received between EUR 88 and 93 000 during the same period. A key project, however, is the three political agents performing in elections under the name of Janez Janša. This is what we know about these people, and it's under artistic programs funded by the Ministry of Culture. However, it is not possible to obtain money to carry out a purely normal, regular activity and exercise of public authority. And this must be financed by the congregation. As far as the ministry's response is concerned, there is also a problem. Because they wrote that this could not be done because it interferes with already promised or already implemented programs. I propose that you support this proposal and make it possible for the public institution to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u71	Mrs. Natasa Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I'd explain my voice. But I'm glad we've got three Janez Janša in the mascot. So I agree with this type of funding and I do not agree with this amendment. I will not personally support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-06-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thanks for the explanation. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With this, we now unequivocally conclude our decision on the amendments. Dear Members, we are moving on to a decision on the Special Part of the Draft Budget Balance in full. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 26. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 26. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have thus concluded our decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft budget rebalancing, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the proposal for a budget rebalancing is coordinated with respect to revenue and expenditure and in part. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 as a whole. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 26. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 by means of an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 26. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the bill on unfair proceedings. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted by the non-minor working body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE PROTOCOL’S AMENDMENT OF REFERRAL A) 50. Member of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Amending Protocol 56. Member of the International Civil Aviation Convention. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the framework agreement between the European Union and its member states on one side and Australia on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 72 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of a partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its member states on one side and a new Zealand on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement establishing an EU-light international fund. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the responses of the Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers of 5 March 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decisions. First conclusion: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the responses of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to Suzanne Lepi Šimenka's question on the rise in minimum wage. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a second decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to the question by Jani Ivanuša on Slovenia's readiness to respond to the new economic and financial crisis. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a Next Decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to the question by Luke Mesca on the projected tax reform. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 42. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the question of mags. Branca Grims regarding the restriction of freedom of expression. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Jani Ivanuše, on the question of Slovenians in Venezuela. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to a proposal for a final decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Boris Doblekar's question on the payment of social security contributions. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this item on the agenda and interrupt the 5th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye. (The sitting was suspended 6. MARCH 2019 AT 13.18.)
