ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Bojana Muršič, Dejan Židan until 11 a.m., Jožef Horvat, Mojca Žnidarič, Andrej Šircelj, Matej Tonin from 10 a.m. to 13 a.m., Matjaž Han, Matjaž German, Bojan Podkoršek, Tina Heferle from 13 a.m., Igor Zorčič to 10 a.m., Anja Bah Žibert and Franz Rosec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 15. On the agenda, this is to discuss the Ministry's response to work, to the family, to social affairs and to the same possibilities of the Magi. Mr Klampfer’s oral question of the Sinter’s contribution to the oral business in relation to the specific and regular placement of field professional services in line with the guidelines for the reorganisation of the Centres for Social Work in 2018. At its 4th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response made by the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer referred to the question put by Primož Siter concerning the urgent and regular intervention of field professional services in accordance with the 2018 guidelines for the reorganisation of social work centres. I give the floor to Primož Siter for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague, good morning! Initially, I would like to thank you very much for the endorsement or extension of the parliamentary question to a broader debate in the National Assembly. Today we will therefore discuss the field and professional work of social work centres, or regret the lack of it. This deficit is essential to the human resources sub-nutrition of social work centres and, on the other hand, to the infamous reorganisation of the ongoing centres. To begin with, let me point out that the key task of social work centres is to address poverty and material poverty, i.e. to ensure the right to social transfers, family benefits and parental protection benefits. This is the first thing, the first and main task of the centres, because the main source of poverty is income inequality and wealth inequality. In the context of an unfair society, that is to say, a system that cannot be fairly and evenly distributed among all those who create it, even among those who are unable to do so, money transfers are key to reducing poverty and social exclusion. In support of this claim, I should provide some statistics. In Slovenia, 13% of all people live in poverty, or 268,000 people. If we look at the latest data from the statistical office, the level of risk of poverty, i.e. before social transfers, is even higher, 24% – every fourth Slovenian. If we were to deduct pensions from this equation, we'd get to the alarming 41%. This says much about the unfair distribution of wealth and the necessity of fair redistribution within the existing system. In addition, key tasks, social work centres also have professional specific tasks, social work services and programmes addressing specific problems of individuals, specific problems of families, social groups and helping them to prevent or eliminate personal distress, provide care and protection. We can include intervention services as well as first aid services, personal assistance, assistance to the family and the protection of children, adolescents and adults. In addition, individual centres also implement programmes for safe houses, maternity homes, crisis centres for young people, social kitchens, shelters for the homeless and the like. This part of the operation of social work centres is the subject of today's debate, or more specifically, the provision of conditions for work that we can call professional, which we can call field work, which we can basically call social work. Providing conditions for the work of those who are professionally educated in the field of social work. This was also the content and core of the political piranha of the previous ministry leadership, which has led to the reorganisation of social work centres, which unfortunately remains unattainable. Personally, I hope that this introduction will serve as a framework, as a platform for a constructive debate on the conditions of professional work at social work centres, and I hope that it will take place primarily on behalf of the resident, who also needs quality, up-to-date, professional service of social work centres for his or her survival and security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Kseniya Klampfer for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, honourable Members, the rest present! Let me first point out that the role of social work centres in the social protection system is crucial; they are observers of the entire system; and they are the central point where an individual can turn to for help in the face of personal distress. Your question, Mr Siter, concerns the functioning of social work centres, the operation of professional services on the ground and field work outside the business time of social work centres. It should be noted that social work centres are involved in preventing and supporting the resolution of social pressures and the problems of individuals, families and individual vulnerable groups. In the performance of the tasks entrusted to them in the law as public powers as tasks by law and in the implementation of social protection services, however, they are strongly involved in the local environment. Professional workers shall carry out the tasks of the Fund with the prescribed standards and standards laid down for individual types of tasks or services. They are carried out both in the office and in the field, for example with visits at home, in such a distribution as the specific case requires. However, professional workers employed at social work centres are present in the field not only during business hours but also at night or outside the business time of the body in the context of the intervention service. The intervention service carries out its work outside the business time centre for social work and is carried out by professional workers. The intervention service intervenes in all emergency and emergency cases on the basis of a police notice, which means that it responds to every call from the police in cases of child threats, domestic violence or when, for example, there is an elderly person in distress who cannot take care of himself and does not have relatives or a social network who could help her in distress. Experts within the intervention service shall provide first social assistance, place the person at risk in a safe environment, if necessary, or carry out all necessary tasks that reduce the risk of the victim of violence. The work of intervention services at social work centres has been avoided. In October 2018, as part of the reorganisation of social work centres, a change was made to the organisational structure of social work centres when the connections of the current 62 social work centres were transformed into 16 new social work centres. Prior to this, the intervention services were organised on the basis of a Government decision whereby 14 intervention services operated within the regional coordination and assistance services for victims. The regional intervention services thus covered several social work centres and after reorganisation, each of the 16 social work centres organised its own intervention service. The change in organisational structure is only one of the changes in the reorganisation of social work centres, which is still under way, and its motto is on the ground closer to people. In order to achieve this final objective, we have strengthened the social work centre already in 2017 and 2018, while additional human resources reinforcements are foreseen in 2019, which together would amount to 16% of additional employment. These reinforcements will allow social work centres to devote even more to their mission, their key tasks and, last but not least, their work on the ground, especially when working with the most vulnerable groups. Centres for social work or professional workers of the centres are already very present in the field, carrying out visits at home, in educational institutions, social institutions, prisons and other institutions as part of their tasks. Many times users who have certain limitations, such as disability, mental health problems, high age, are adjusted, and when a person cannot report to the centre, they also visit the user. They are active in the local network, respond to the needs of the local environment, cooperate with other institutions and participate in expert teams with other bodies. In particular, it should be stressed that they respond in all cases of urgency and urgency where protection is necessary for the threatened individual or family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Member Primož Siter, in his question to the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, was based on the alleged inappropriate functioning of professional workers at social work centres in situations where family violence occurs or occurs. In this context, the Member focused primarily on the work of social work centres, the organisation of services and the reorganisation of centres. In the opening position of the Desus Group today's debate on the Minister's response, I recall that the reorganisation of social work centres was carried out under the slogan Na tere, closer to people. As part of the coalition that carried out the long-awaited reorganisation of social work centres in the previous term of the National Assembly, we agreed in our parliamentary group that the reorganisation was necessary, aware that the centres throughout the long-standing existence – practically social services have been present on our soil for more than half a century – we have been getting constantly new and new tasks both by the state and by the local communities, and the organization and working methods themselves have not been much up-to-date throughout this time. Professionals began to drown in paperwork, the field work was practically dead. It is clear, however, that it is not enough for citizens and citizens who need such or other assistance only in the constitution, by law and by decision to guarantee some rights and social transfers. People who are in such or otherwise distress need a different approach in the vast majority. A genuine contact with a person who is qualified to help is worth more than a decision itself. Some congregations have provided premises and an information base so that interested ones can come to their home with their problems and problems. It is common that people who need a social work centre do not have their own transportation or have different physical limitations. Domestic violence is a particularly hot and highly sensitive subject, as it is a violation of fundamental human rights, which appears to be a grave abuse of the physical and mental powers of one person over another. When a child or an elderly person is involved as a victim, the story is even worse. That is why this social problem requires a great deal of attention, the responsiveness of the responsible and zero tolerance of society and of any individual to these acts. Pursuant to Article 6 of the Domestic Violence Prevention Act, State authorities are holders of public authority, public service providers, local community bodies and non-governmental organisations which, in their work, perceive the circumstances under which violence can be concluded to be committed, are obliged to inform the Centre for Social Work immediately. Except, of course, if the victim expressly opposes it and it is not a suspicion of a crime that is being prosecuted under official responsibility. Everyone and regardless of his or her commitment to professional silence, in particular professional workers and health workers, as well as staff in educational and educational institutions, must immediately inform the Centre for Social Work, the Police or the State Prosecutor's Office when he or she suspects that the victim is a child. So we have more jobs, not just social work centers dealing with domestic violence. They must respond and act appropriately in the event of observed or detected signs of violence. Here the question can be asked whether they do enough to make the act of violence at all openly, and if not everything that is necessary is done to help the victim in an appropriate manner and that in the end it is also appropriate to deal with the cause. Notwithstanding the fact that the centres for social work of the central institution in dealing with domestic violence, Desus estimates that the key to responding adequately to the occurrence of domestic violence is to address cases of violence and, of course, the responsiveness and professional competence of all the services mentioned above, which face the consequences of violence in their work. In our Group of Members, the Desus Group, we were informed of what has led Mr Siter in particular to raise the question of the Member of Parliament that we are discussing today. From what we know, we would hope to conclude that there was no adequate response by healthcare professionals. Nevertheless, we would draw attention from the members of our parliamentary group to social work centres. In its reply to the question at the previous meeting of the assembly, the Minister has already answered, among other things, the question of human resources reinforcements at the centres. She said that in the light of the reorganisation, the centres were strengthened with new jobs already in 2017 and 2018 and that this trend continues this year. It's definitely a greeting. However, employment should be further strengthened if, as a social state, we are serious about bringing the work of the centres closer to people, so as to strengthen the field work of social workers. As we bring the work of professionals closer to people, we will also get a more realistic picture of who is entitled to more attention and help. It can even be shown that the actual situation in relation to paper data is quite different. Finally, if we look at the comparison of another European country, an average of 100,000 people are employed by about a thousand 850 social workers. With us, where there are 2 million of us, there are only a thousand 900 employees at social work centres. From here we can also draw an argument for a real increase in employment at social work centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u8	Your Honor! Today, in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I will focus on reorganising social work centres, because I think this will be the red thread of today's debate. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, since the start of the project of reorganisation of social work centres, we note that the approach and preparation of the reorganisation are completely flawed. This is an additional bureaucracy of the operations of the centres, which has absolutely nothing to do with the basic direction of operations of the centres, and this is working with people, i.e. those who need help. As we have already said many times, the reorganisation of social work centres under the leadership of the Minister of Labour in the previous mandate of Anja Kopač Mrak, who is now employed in the cabinet of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, is a populist action without content. The best evidence of this is the situation in which people expected their applications for annual rights, child allowances, kindergarten subsidies, state scholarships to be resolved in a timely manner. That didn't happen. Many of these applications are still in the process, so people are still waiting for their solution. The delays themselves in the resolution of applications have caused months of negative consequences for those socially weak ones, who had to secure income elsewhere if they were even able to. This is totally unacceptable and unacceptable. The President of the Government, Marjan Šarec, thus incompetent former Minister Anjo Kopač Dark, has been employed in his cabinet for the award. At the very least, what we expect from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is for Prime Minister Anjo Kopač Dark to clear his cabinet immediately. If that does not happen, then it is clear that the government's goal at all costs is to remain in power, regardless of the price paid by our citizens and citizens. Also, according to our assessment, and, of course, according to experts, in the social field, there are not enough employed experts to follow the reorganisation. Employees are exhausted, mentally destroyed, no technical equipment is needed to make the Krpan program come to life; older computers, obsolete software and so on. This is also pointed out by the company that has developed and supported the Krpan programme, Unistar. Since thousands of annual rights decisions were not resolved at the Ljubljana Regional Centre for Social Work in early September 2018, they were distributed by local centres throughout Slovenia and transported in boxes across Slovenia. First, the local centres are not competent for the resolution of annual rights, and secondly, the applicants were not aware of who is saving and where their applications are being resolved. There is much information that only a thousand applications for annual rights have been resolved in the Ljubljana Regional Centre for Social Work and that they will be resolved by the end of February, but it is not said that 6 000 more 500 applications have been submitted in the Ljubljana Regional Centre for Social Work in December 2018, of which, according to my assessment, have been very few. It is an obvious delusion, for with 16 employees, some of whom are still in hospital, it is a pure utopia to save by the end of February. When we talk about the introduction of the new Krpan information system, it is clear from the data collected that it is not compatible with the existing information system of social work centres, which means double data entry for employees and therefore even greater burden on already overburdened employees and even greater backlog in the decision-making process. If I conclude, the consequences of the reorganisation of social work centres are catastrophic, the social rights system does not work and is increasingly moving away from basic social work and from the needs of the people who have created the system at all, and the employees at the social work centre turn into wage workers who have to meet the standards, and less into workers who do their jobs professionally and with the heart. The problem of reorganisation is, of course, also reflected in the organisation of the so-called field network, which was set up as one of the main acquisitions of reorganisation. In her reply, the Minister considers that the concrete results of the reorganisation of the field services at this time would still be difficult to talk about, since it has only been a short time since the reorganisation. The same was true for digitisation, since it was also too late and the social decisions were delayed for several months. The Ministry's task is to change and solve problems or prevent them. This is all the more so in the case of the current Minister, who has taken over the project of reorganisation of former Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, who has been poorly placed, unfinished, and has long been warned about the shortcomings of the project by experts in the field of social work as well as social workers and workers themselves. We are therefore convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the oral question on the reorganisation of social work centres was still justified. In view of the reckless, inefficient and unprofessional approach to the reorganisation of social work centres, it is necessary to call the competent authorities to account. The least that must happen is that Prime Minister Marjan Šarec removes Dr. Anjo Kopač Dark from his office. It is necessary to revise the work done by Mrakova, which must take on not only political responsibility but also compensation for the situation caused by its decisions as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. We expect the current Minister to remove the anomaly as soon as possible on the way to bringing about a reorganisation in a way that will be adapted to the users of social services and, of course, to the employees of the social work centres, not red tape. Therefore, employees at social work centres will be able to carry out their primary task for which they were established.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovacič has the floor, which will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! Social work centres shall carry out the tasks prescribed by the legislation. They also cover social security services and other tasks if they are necessary to address social pressures and environmental problems. The main task of social work centres is to solve social problems as well as to address social pressures and problems of individuals, families or groups. Social work centres are an entry point for every citizen where he can turn for help when he is in personal distress. A particular type of personal distress is certainly a case of family violence, where women and children are often victims. Victims of violence are usually more vulnerable groups. During times of distress, these need the assistance provided by experts within the intervention services of social work centres. The importance of the intervention service in their operation has not been neglected in the reorganisation of social work centres. The reorganisation of centres is certainly a major step, a new organisational structure aimed at making services more accessible and quality for users. According to the new organisation structure, they now have 16 centres for social work and 63 units for social work. Units of social work centres continue to allow direct access to users, more field work and local involvement and are intended for rapid response. The newly created social work centres, however, have a so-called professional service within which the intervention service operates. In the previous regulation, social work centres had to be brought together regionally for the purpose of providing experts in intervention services, which is no longer necessary under the new regime. There have been many speeches and concerns in terms of the performance of the social work centres after the reorganisation. With regard to the assessment of the effects of the action, the Minister has already pointed out, in supplementing her reply to the oral question of Member Sieter, that the effects of the action of social work centres will be measured at monthly level. The final document on the effectiveness of the reorganisation and achievement of the objectives will be prepared in June. We are aware of the importance of the operation of social work centres in the Marjan Šarca Group. We are also aware of how important it is that the centres for social work have a sufficient amount of expertise. This is the only way to ensure the quality delivery of services that the citizens of the Republic definitely deserve, so we will also pay attention to the final evaluation of the effectiveness of the operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! At the outset, it must be pointed out that we Social Democrats are aware that it is essential for workers at social work centres to have as few bureaucratic tasks as possible so that they can devote themselves as much to people as possible to go to the field to people. This requires, in the first place, increasing the possibilities for in-depth professional work and thus increasing the chances of people being affected. For several years now, CSD workers have been alerting themselves to overload due to both the human resources crisis and the shortage of workers and too much administration. In the past, CSDs have also received constantly new and new tasks that have been further burdened. Sometimes we get the feeling that their work is primarily official, bureaucratic, away from what is actually supposed to be. We must not forget that the primary task of CSDs is to resolve human and social pressures, and this is a process that is long-lasting and demanding. It takes time to establish a working relationship with people, and time for the field has been running out too many times in the past. The reorganisation of social work centres has brought a certain burden on social workers. The decision on annual rights, e.g. children's allowance, kindergarten subsidies, state scholarships, has been transferred from local centres to special decision-making units from public funds, which are now organised at 16 district centres. Beneficiaries, investors are no worse, as they can still play their roles at the same addresses as before the reorganisation, i.e. at all units of their local centres. In the meantime, local or regional centres are now deciding on a protective allowance, financial social assistance and, above all, providing assistance services to individuals and families, i.e. dealing mainly with substantive matters. In this case, it is an important step in separating bureaucracy, administrations from content itself. The partial unloading of workers is or will also bring the system Krpan. Krapan means technical administrative support to social work centres. It represents a modern and uniform solution for documenting documentary material and has started to be introduced gradually, on 1 March 2019, by individual centres for social work. The first results and effects of the system are very encouraging. However, red tape is now less for investors, as by introducing an informational calculation now to users for these annual rights, these are state grants, child allowances, no longer have to be re-invested every year, but these annual rights are automatically extended when they expire. This is only the first time they have submitted their application, and this is no longer necessary in the next few years. The automatic information decision, which is now foreseen by 2021, will also make an important step towards decommissioning social workers. We are, of course, aware of the fact that the issue of human resources malnutrition and overcrowding of social workers is also a matter of concern, but it should be pointed out that several steps in this direction have already taken place in 2017, 2018. Thus, during the term of office of former Minister Anja Kopač, the number of jobs in social work centres increased by 11%, bringing 140 new jobs. The previous Minister, Dr Anja Kopač, also signed a medium-term employment plan to employ 235 new people over the next 5 years. I am particularly pleased here that the new Minister is also in some way inclined to do so, and the whole government is pleased that this human resources malnutrition will continue intensively over the coming years. It should be noted, however, that human resources shortages cannot be resolved in a short period of time. The adoption of the new Family Code, which has delegated certain powers from social work centres to the courts and which will be applied in mid-April, and the relocation of the probation service from social work centres to the Ministry of Justice, are or will have an important impact on the unloading of workers at social work centres. Social Democrats are aware of the problem and seriousness of today's debate. We are aware of the difficulties that burdened workers face, and we are also aware that there will be a need to strengthen work at social work centres, both with new jobs and with additional burdens. However, it is necessary to say that some of the measures have already gone this way, but we cannot expect that things that have accumulated 20 years or more will be resolved overnight with one miraculous stroke with a stick. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Siter has highlighted the operation of the intervention service within the CSD. CSD intervention services shall carry out urgent tasks that prevent or reduce the risk of a victim of violence. They're working out of regular hours. The intervention service shall provide in all cases of urgency and indemnity on the basis of a notification from the police, in cases of a child at risk of domestic violence when a person who lacks full business capacity is deprived of protection and care or is an elderly person who is without family members and is in severe distress of life. It is important to point out that 14 regional services were organised prior to the reorganisation and, consequently, 14 intervention services covering several centres. Today, after the reorganisation, we have 16 intervention services, so the number has increased and intervention services no longer cover the area of more centres, but all 16 regional centres have their own professional services and thus have their own intervention service. Let me give you an example. If an emergency occurs in Kočev, it has been necessary to wait for an hour or more from New City. Today, after the reorganisation, Kočev has its own intervention service. On the basis of all of this, we can say that the reorganisation has brought both benefits to users and a certain burden on social workers. Its leading message was to bring social workers closer to the field and, above all, closer to people, to increase the expertise of social work centres, to relieve administrations, to improve the quality of services for people. The reorganisation is therefore a process that has not yet been completed, even more, a process that must not be completed. But it's definitely a step in the right direction. Since Member Pojbič specifically spoke in the presentation of the Group of Members about the former Minister, Dr Anji Kopač, let me also say a few words about her achievements. Dr. Anya Kopač was undoubtedly a good minister. When the achievements of the previous government were discussed and written, achievements in the fields of work, family, social, areas led by Anja Kopač were always exposed. If we want to talk about a specific person, if we want to talk about Anya the Ripper, let us talk about what she has done in her mandate. Let us talk about all the achievements, all the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities that have been taken under its auspices and that have improved the lives of people, the measures that have taken to ensure that those who need help do so. The reorganization of CSDs was necessary, and I think we all agree. Social work centres have not been touched for 25 years, although there have been more initiatives. No one's ever tried to bite that sour apple before. CSD information equipment was poor. Attempts to reorganise thus began back in 2000, a long time ago. Let's be honest and pour ourselves some clean wine. The reorganisation didn't come up with Anya Copač. But she had the only courage to do it. The reorganisation was an agreed, necessary project that had been coordinated for at least two years. He coordinated with all key stakeholders at different levels, from policy to profession, namely the Government, the National Assembly, the Ministry of Public Administration, trade unions, local communities, organised field meetings at the Community of Centres for Social Work, established an expert consultation group, collaborated with the Social Chamber of Slovenia, with the Faculty of Social Work, with the Society of Social Workers and Workers. Consultations were also organised in municipalities throughout Slovenia, so that the municipalities were involved in this process and most of the requirements that the municipalities themselves had in the reorganisation were taken into account. The reorganisation itself was thus a broader social consensus, a compromise, consensus and coherence between the different stakeholders. To claim that the reorganization of CSDs was a one-man project is simply unrealistic and misleading. The SDS's perception that the backlog of deposits is the responsibility of the reorganisation of social work centres, that therefore the reorganization of CSDs as a whole project has not been successful, that it has been falsified, that they are unfounded and that there is no argument. The reorganisation was, by the way, a compromise of several solutions. It is also impossible to understand reorganisation as a unique event and it does not mean a swing with a miracle stick and that all the problems suddenly disappear overnight. The reorganisation is also not a political project of the former Minister, it is not a collection of political points, but it is, respected and respected, a reorganisation of the first step towards the necessary and urgent changes, which have been alerted to by the profession, employees and users of services for several years. Let me conclude by summarizing what the real reorganisation involves. Three processes: social activation programmes as a new approach to work with recipients of social transfers in social protection, simplification of the administrative procedures of the ZUPJS by introducing an informational calculation and a new organisational structure of CSDs. I am also pleased that the new ministry leadership is in some way inclined to continue the processes that have begun and that the new government is paying a great deal of attention to the social field, which, after all, was demonstrated by the adoption of the budget rebalancing yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u14	Since the end of June last year, when the National Assembly was re-established, we have been talking more than once about the re-organisation of social work centres at meetings of working bodies and of the National Assembly. Today's debate on the response to the Member of Sieter's question on the urgent and regular intervention of the field services in accordance with the 2018 reorganisation guidelines is in essence only a follow-up phase of all the discussions so far on this subject. According to our assessment, the initial response of the Minister of State for Labour has already been correct and satisfactory, but despite this debate today we are commanded by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is why it is also right to do so. In fact, the very clear and direct conclusion reached by the discussions already held shows that all the measures and activities of the Minister of Labour, which addressed and prevented the shortcomings of last year's reorganisation of social work centres, were appropriate, appropriate and sufficiently rapid. Despite the difficulties that have arisen at the beginning of the reorganisation and are to some extent related to the fact that the concept of performance was not optimal at least in the initial stages by the former responsible. This is also a very clear and direct conclusion of all the discussions so far on this subject. We therefore estimate that today there is no longer a need to look for those responsible for the problems that occurred in the autumn months and even earlier. Why? Since this is already quite evident, and particularly because appropriate measures have been taken in due time, which have normalised the situation and, above all, stabilised. Thus today, we are no longer talking about the backlogs that have been created as a result of the reorganisation of October, because they are practically gone, and this is most important, although we all probably wish that such and other skeletons would no longer fall from the cabinets of the departmental ministry. Social work centres are one of the most important members of ensuring social security for citizens and citizens who are in social distress, so their optimal, quality and effective action must be in the interest of all of us, and especially of societies as a whole. One of the major objectives pursued by the reorganisation of the centres in the previous year was to increase the involvement of professional workers in the field or in the local environment. The proposal was built on a myth that social pressures will be effectively resolved in offices and for computers, so the creation of common professional services within individual centres is an important achievement of the present reorganisation. More importantly, it is important that an intervention service is organised within this service, which operates in each of the 16 centres for social work. The intervention service, as a new task of social work centres, shall carry out the tasks of intervention of all in urgent and urgent cases on the basis of notification by the police, in cases of perceived domestic violence, the threat of a child when a person without complete business ability is deprived of protection and care or when it is an elderly person who is without relatives and is in severe distress. In the SMC Group, we trust the Minister's opinion that the intervention service's responses in urgent and urgent cases are appropriate and that they follow high professional criteria and that professionals and workers are doing their job well. However, it should be borne in mind that close cooperation with other actors involved in tackling social pressures and ensuring social security for vulnerable individuals and individuals, particularly police and healthcare professionals in health homes, is also important. They shall be notified to each other and shall be aware of the operation and competences of the intervention service. This is the only way to ensure the proper and coordinated functioning of all actors in emergency and emergency intervention. It is unrealistic to expect the reorganisation of social work centres to completely eliminate social problems and hardships for people. The terrain is a living environment that needs mainly the rapid and professional responses of the competent services. The Minister announced regular monitoring and implementation of evaluations at monthly level. As has already been pointed out, steps and measures to date have been assessed as correct and appropriate. We also inform the proposaler of this item on the agenda that his excessive concern after the call for assistance in the National Assembly is not yet necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u16	As already pointed out by Comrade Siter, the priority of social work centres is to address poverty within the existing socio-economic system. They perform this task to the extent that there is a strong social state that is supposed to compensate for the unfair distribution of wealth within capitalism. So they give as much as the ruling policy decides is enough. But as a rule, so many people are kept in poverty and are willing to accept such exploitation work, because it has been unfortunately the social policy of the country over the past ten, fifteen years, and Social Democrats have been at the forefront of this policy, and it is Anja Copač Dark at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for them. Karl Marx would place this policy under the maintenance of a spare labour force, which can replace anyone in the workplace at any time and thus mentally and existentially subordinate it to the capitalist-class household. The purpose of social work centres is exactly the opposite. In addition to deciding on a right or a right, they also resolve the pressures of people who are to gain control over their own lives. It's an intervention, and it allows these people to do it. As an area of expertise, it must also refer to social circumstances such as alcoholism, domestic violence, addiction, disease, natural disasters and the like. Especially in the case of elderly single people without a social network on which they could lean. For this task, social work centres need well-educated professionals who have enough time to be able to devote themselves to these individuals. We have these well-educated professionals. The Faculty of Social Work equips its students well to carry out professional tasks in the field of social protection. The forms and methods of work developed by this university have contributed greatly to the field of social work, as well as to specific special areas such as working with older people, working with women, young people, people in mental distress, physically disabled people, ethnic minorities. It also contributed to good solutions in the area of social protection, such as first social assistance, home care, housing groups, safe houses and the like. However, these experts have found themselves in a situation where the system literally denies them the work for which they are trained and which they would like to do in accordance with the mission of their profession. Today we are and will talk a lot about reorganisation, but in fact the original sin of social work evaluation is the one that happened between 2010 and 2012 with the change of social legislation in the Pahor government. These changes in social legislation have also meant, among other things, a significantly enhanced control function of professional workers in CSDs or the entire information system on the exercise of rights. The legislation has turned social workers into bureaucrats to enforce the control mechanisms of anti-social legislation in the Czech Republic. This has been subject to serious criticism by the professional public on several occasions in the past, but this approach to the issue of social work remains. Such a disciplinary function of professional workers at the centres is contrary to the basic concepts of social work, where a professional and user should play a partner role. As a result, the exercise of rights today is increasingly under way with less direct social work, and there is more activity in data on the material situation of the investor and his family. The first commandment of such social policy orientations is not the question of how we will help, as it should be, but the question is how will we deny help to someone. If we want social work to become work with people and people again, then, for the first time, we need to strengthen the human resources pool of social work centres, reaching only about 40% of the European average at this time, secondly, debirocratising the procedures for the enforcement of social transfers, and thirdly, we need to abolish the social policy which instead of prosperity creates a spare army of poor people forced to accept any underpaid work on which our provincial capitalism is increasingly based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u18	Your Honor! We Christian Democrats have been very detained at the announcement of former Minister Kopač Dark that a reorganisation of social work centres is being prepared. Our mistrust stemmed mainly from the poor experience of its past interventions in the field of social security and family policy and warned the profession that the reorganisation does not have sufficient technical and information support. Despite all these warnings, the reorganisation of social work centres continued. Today, however, we can confidently say that history repeats itself. At the end of 2011, at the end of the mandate of the Government of Pahorje, the Ministry's team led by Ivan Svetlik and the Secretary of State, Dr. Anja Kopač, was infamous for failing to reform the exercise of rights from public funds. How much injustice and damage she's caused! And we're fixing it today. Let us only recall the withdrawal of state pensions from the many weakest. Former Minister Kopač Mrak, unfortunately, has also completed an expiring mandate in a similar manner, with a much-predicted reform of social work centres. From past experience, we can now say that we will continue to correct it for years and years. Sadly, though, the victims are most likely never to receive reparations. Even today, certain roles that appear to be fictitious must be cleaned out of the system because the system was not completed and completed at the time. Systemic errors have been caused, which must now be corrected by professional workers at social work centres and spend unnecessary time. The ISCSD system is still not working as it should, which hinders the normal work of the centres. The proposers announced in particular the three main objectives of the proposed amendment of the Social Protection Act. First, social activation, secondly, information decision, and thirdly, reorganisation of social work centres. After the first point, social activation, there were mainly 52 new jobs within the Ministry. As we hear from Sieter's colleague and current minister, it is obvious that these jobs have not been effective in helping to improve work mainly in emergency field procedures. Regarding the information decision Christian Democrats, we did not trust the Dark Digger and unfortunately we were not wrong here. The information system of social work centres has not been prepared for change. Employees at social work centres have left unprepared and overloaded, and the current minister has no choice but to stop the procedure immediately after the start of her term of office. If I had not done so, once the change had been introduced, chaos in the area of rights from public resources could have prevailed. There are no information decisions as such, in that sense, as promised by the former Minister, of course. This means that the system of social work centres is not less burdened, but more. Social work centres have continued to face backlogs in the area of public resources rights since September, and especially the Ljubljana Centre for Social Work is still solving the December applications for child allowances, scholarships, kindergarten subsidies. What's been going on since before the reorganisation doesn't work now. The motto “closer to people” was farce, since there is much less field work now and bureaucratic barriers have only increased. As a result, other areas where backlogs also occur, such as monetary social assistance, have also become strained. Today, we also see that the main purpose of the last change in social legislation was to reorganise social work centres so that, of course, the ministry and through it, of course, also the SD party, would take full control of the human resources in the social work system. Christian Democrats claim that this system is irreparable damage. Let's just remind ourselves of the disputed SD recruitment at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, which received an epilogue in the matter of the Koroška boy. Ladies and gentlemen, how many such and similar affairs await us in the future? In particular, we need to touch on the financial aspect of this reorganisation. The Ministry then hired an external company to manage the project and to manage relations with the public regarding the reorganisation, which paid him as much as EUR 121 000 509. This is more than the Ministry of Public Relations has jointly paid from 2007 to 2016. In their assessment of the financial consequences of the reorganization of CSDs, this was smooth silenced. Let me sum it up. The purpose of the reorganization of CSDs was to increase and consolidate the influence of the SD party on human resources in the social protection system, which caused much damage to the entire network and the professional work. We're gonna fix it for a long, long time. Although the former minister withdrew from the ministry, she still has an influential position in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. This does not give us hope in New Slovenia. Today's ministers, however, want a lot of courage and uprightness in normalising the situation in the ministry and in particular in the area of social work centres. From reliable sources, we have information that work cannot be done in an eight-hour worker and that the centres must be used to pay overtime and increase the amount of work. All of this is at the expense of the staff at the centres who are exhausted, and the number of hospital absences is increasing. That's what the reorganisation brought in.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will also present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, dear Minister, nice greetings to all! Today is the debate on the response of Minister Mag. Ksenije Klampfer's question on the Member's question regarding the functioning of social work centres, particularly with regard to field work. The reorganisation of social work centres is mainly discussed in a negative light. The objectives set by the Ministry – because this is the work of the Ministry, not just one person – in its context, have set in terms of efficiency and quality of work, greater accessibility to services and the development of new forms of professional work are quite different. In particular, mistakes and complications that have arisen in this regard are at the forefront. However, criticism in many ways has proved to be excessive, premature, and even unfair to all those who have tried to make these social work centers work better and live better. I myself believe that the work of the current Minister clearly shows that the reorganisation, although rather unfortunately led in preparation and execution, is not a mistake. I think the results confirm that. The problems of reorganization — each reorganization brings them, of course, but it should not have the consequences they had. Also with regard to the simplification of the information system, which was also discussed at the meeting on 7 February. But backlogs at social work centers are largely eliminated. With regard to the reorganisation itself, it is necessary to recognise one important measure which has not yet taken place in its full form, namely the decommissioning of administrative and administrative procedures of professional workers on the ground. In doing so, we also need to get a little dust on our own, because we have a constant tendency to try, through laws and regulations, to capture everything and not to trust people to do their job well. By overriding things, we're essentially making them impossible, so it's also our fault, as well as the Ministry's fault, because they're proposing such laws and regulations. Let us try to get rid of this and let us cultivate confidence in people, to the point of expertise, so that they can do their work on the ground. The problems that arose in the field, which was a lot of talk, are also due to human resources malnutrition. Those people who work in the field who know their business were simply understaffed. We've been snorkeling in this area, thank God, I'll say, now we've increased this, more people will be on the ground and more able to take care of the most vulnerable groups and help them find a way out of the trouble. In this direction, the right direction is also to strengthen field services, such as intervention services organised at each of the 16 centres for social work. In each centre, a team consisting of several experts in several fields, such as psychologists, lawyers, clinical psychologists and others, must live. It's for those of you who need help, really help. Finally, I should like to welcome the intention to draw up a final evaluation document on the effectiveness of this reorganisation. This is the right thing to do. Don't think about talking, let's take a look at the document, put it together, offer it to the debate. In this way, the pros and cons of reorganization and results will be shown, both positive and negative, which will be a good way forward. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we believe that discussions on such important topics are necessary and can contribute to constructive solutions, so we hope that today's debate will be constructive further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. First, the speaker, Primož Siter, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your words and thank you very much to the representatives and representatives of the parliamentary groups for their views. I am pleased that we have opened up a broader horizon of this issue, that we have not only become engrossed in the problem of intervention services or their operation. As I said in the introduction, the mission of social work centres is essentially double, on the one hand it's a decision on material rights, on the other hand it's about helping people in distress, so on the ground, one on the other, if you want. The intervention service is one such service, that is, the service that intervenes when a minor loses his parents when an elderly person without relatives is in trouble. Or perhaps the most plastic case I have ever given in the original parliamentary question, an example of domestic violence. In cases of emergency, as already reported by the Minister, the police are first informed and then ordered to intervene and then so on. As a starting point, I would take domestic violence because it is really one of the most plastic examples of intervention of the intervention service. In view of the prevalence of domestic violence, it can be found that such interventions are still limited. We can look for quick reasons in poor organization of work and in human resources malnutrition. In two things you have already mentioned in your views, Members and Members of Parliament. I believe that we will be on this today for a long and wide period of time, but only this case, for example, mediated in cases of domestic violence, has very interesting statistics. In 2017 the police reported that they had dealt with 3,000 cases of domestic violence, i.e. cases of fighting, shouting, indecent behaviour and so on, these cases of shouting, unworthy behaviour and actual violence, were 2,000, thousands of them making noise with music. What's in the subtitle, given that a man causes 99% of domestic violence, means that every man three times counts with a woman than he listens to music. Just for information. One personal statement before I proceed, I served as a radio editor and head of staff prior to my term of office, most of which I devoted to the morning programme, and an important part of every morning radio programme is a police report. In these police reports, no day has passed without reporting domestic violence. And now, okay, we have a case of violence in the family, where almost as a rule, a man is brought up against a woman and transmitted to the police because it is physical or sexual violence or whatever, and the offender and the victim are separated, they deal with the victim if necessary medical care, the offender is taken away by the police and the problem is relatively urgently resolved. But in this equation, we didn't think of the third article, of the child who sees it, who experiences this violence with bruises that will accompany it throughout his life. Here comes the necessity of an up-to-date and quality service of a qualified social worker. Statistics say – I have done a little homework, in my home trebles a little over my finger in social workers, I have measured the number of these interventions. The Trbovlje Centre for Social Work is one of the smaller, covering 3 sub-units, covering about 50,000 people in Zasavje. At the time of the reorganisation, he has addressed or recorded 5 emergency intervention services for social work centres. Is Reorganization the Problem? It's possible. The problem is certain, and today we have highlighted it several times, malnutrition in staffing. But the problem is. The problem is that social work centres have self-sacrificing social workers, they have people with their backs and their whole beings standing in what is not work, but it is a mission, even in intervention services. Therefore, my colleague Lepo, who in your presentation or position stated that I highlighted the inappropriate conduct of social workers in the field — no, that is not true! I'm very much protesting here. I am putting myself on the side of social workers who deserve a working environment that allows them to be social workers. And these workers are at the centres for social work and these workers, future social workers, we have a huge pool of colleges for social work, so we're not going to point to a problem that isn't, but we're going to present the situation as it really is. The main problem is human resources malnutrition, which we all agree with, but the ground agrees, we all know, and the ministry agrees, we all understand that people on the ground are not enough, sitting in offices when they should be on the ground and one at a time solving this problem. I am also pleased that colleague Koprivc highlighted the reorganisation, citram, "in dialogue with the public concerned and the profession" because the profession took a very interesting approach to this reorganisation of social work centres, which included the reorganisation of intervention services. Just before the reorganisation, she warned that we could go to a technical reorganisation, a change in the mental pattern of the organisation of the social work centre, but it's all free of charge and without connection if we don't address the main problem and address it at the start, and that's a strong and sufficient human resources reinforcement of the professional services. From this title, the Moroccan social workers boycotted the Ministry of Labour's consultation on reorganisation, and from this title, the community of social work centres drew attention to the key problem of all centres, i.e. overcrowding and the mid-term reorganisation would not solve anything. The President of the Community of Centres for Social Work said in an interview for Work: “At the centres, for example, we deal with increasingly young children with mental health problems, addiction, emotional and behavioural disorders. Don't we have some kind of network to deal with them properly? The waiting days for counseling are long, there are no pedopsychiatrists, there are no specialists for this kind of help. On the other hand, there are no programmes to address dementia in the home environment. There are no guardians. There are no programs for migrants. If we got new programs and a new frame, it could be called reorganisation. Thus, the problems remain unresolved." They also agreed in New City, the director wrote: “We also note that for example, there are more and more people with mental health problems for such or other reasons, so we would urgently need a clinical psychologist who would be a member of our team. At these regional CSDs, the profession should certainly be strengthened by relevant experts.” Trade unions have also taken a similar view on the problem of delays at social work centres, but already in this term at the end of last year, early this year with a letter to ministers, they have pointed to critical human resources malnutrition. So if we are looking for the original sin of the problem that we are talking about today, this is not one situation of the intervention service in Hrastnik, which has happened and one specific Member has talked about asking about the functionality of intervention services, the problem is significantly broader. The horizon I mentioned at the outset is significantly broader and is systemic, is umbrella and we need to answer these questions from this horizon. I hope that in today's debate we will contribute constructively and proactively with ideas, point to mistakes and serve some solutions. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Ambassador Nice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Mr. Siter, I didn't mean you about what you said. I have indicated in my implementation medical personnel. I came mainly from this because it happens that individual victims come to the infirmary, health care and health workers do not report that they have been abused. From this point of view, there was no talk of any professional workers, because in view of my experience in local self-government, we have worked very well with social professionals and we are still working together, and I know that their hearts are safe in the first place. So with this implementation, I looked at exactly what I said, "medical staff", but I was thinking, above all, that individuals, including us who appear in life, if we see in neighbors or anywhere else, should report either to the social work centre or to the police. So that's all I'd ask as a notice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I'd like to answer my colleague Siter very briefly. Yes, we absolutely agree, human resources malnutrition is a key problem, but as I have already pointed out in the opening presentation of our Group, this issue is being resolved. Capacity has been provided for new jobs in the past year, in the past two years and in the future additional employment resources have been provided. This is certainly crucial, we agree, but on the other hand we cannot say because of this human resources malnutrition that the reorganization itself, the organisational structures were not necessary. Specifically, this reorganisation itself in some way relieves professional workers of dealing with administrative and technical matters and gives them more opportunities to work alone with people, with the ground, which is crucial. Once again, however, it is essential to provide additional resources for new staff. This is essential and crucial, and in this direction I believe that the Government will work in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is also wanted by the Minister of Mag. Kseniya Klampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the human resources problem at social work centres, I would like to provide some more information. As you know, in January we concluded a special agreement with the SINCE union on additional human resources reinforcements at social work centres, namely for 73 jobs, which we are counting on to be filled before the summer, which is sometime in June, July 2019. In concrete terms, we have made an assessment of the human resources situation across the social work centres and have found that the centres are very differently fed or strengthened. On this basis, we have also made this staff cut, and I can say at this point that after the new staff cut, seven social work centres of 16 will have more than 90% of the workforce. The largest centres for social work are the CSD Ljubljana and CSD Maribor. These two will also be strengthened beyond 80%, 84% CSD Ljubljana and 82% CSD Maribor after the new staffing allocation. After this staff cut, the average employment of social work centres will be 87%. As already stated in the introduction, the effects of reorganisation will be monitored, the effects of informationisation will be monitored and, on this basis, will then respond to the human resources needs of social work centres in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Now you get the word, Member. First he gets the word Gregor Perič, get Nina Maurovich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I'll start with that. I'd like to thank you first and praise the Mag. Klampfer, so the minister, for her approach to the work itself, because when she encounters a problem, she first sits down with her employees, talks and finds solutions and does not make her sit down with journalists and then generate some media stories and cause some problems, repercussions and so on. From this point of view, I think that someone else in the government can imitate her way of working, because I think everyone in the government is responsible for solving problems, not for being further inspired. My personal opinion is that this debate today is of some kind, and this is also confirmed by the views of the members of the groups, if we have listened well and carefully. In a way, it is a calculation by the Left and on the other hand by the SDS. It seems to me, at least in view of the room's pre-emption on the SDS side, that this bill is more of a pro-form, but in spite of everything. Today, while we will talk about a number of aspects, I would like to point out something – that in these few months we must bear in mind that every process of some reorganisation, particularly in such complex and large systems as are public, is not simple. It takes a lot of energy, a lot of effort to put in, a lot of coordination, changes in legislation, other acts, information support and so on. There are many ways that something can go wrong, and many times this will happen. But as noted in the introduction, the government or all the employees are there to deal with these problems. Sometimes more, sometimes less successful, it is important to reach the goal and that the service we offer to our citizens and citizens is effective and that we are all satisfied with it. So far, there have been many debates on this reorganisation at various levels both within the professional public and within the National Assembly on various committees. We have been asked a number of questions, either by the competent ministers or ministers or by the President of the Government, and I believe there has been some broad and in-depth public debate in the previous mandate, so I think it is important to point out that the system is under control today. As it is said, the reorganisation is moving into its final phase, the effects of the reorganisation itself today can only be spoken of to a limited extent, because those real effects will be known if we come from the practice of evaluating such very complex processes, only about two years after they are fully implemented. Only then will we be able to say what is wrong, what is wrong, what is yet to be completed, corrected, replaced, abolished or anything else. A few months ago, we listened to very catastrophic and also worrying information about the collection of many outstanding roles, again for various reasons. The data I have available from 28 February this year is that there have been 64 pending applications and all these applications have not been resolved because the administrative procedure has been carried out and it has been waiting for the parties to complete, so that certain clarifications, data, information, documents can be provided so that these administrative procedures can then be brought to an end. We're hearing that this reorganisation is infamous. I do not agree that it is infamous, in particular I would say that it is necessary and necessary, and this is also proven, because, as we have heard many times today, its purpose is to relieve employees, to make employees at social work centres less involved in paperwork, but more with people. We also talked about the test system here yesterday. This is also one of those measures that will move one part of the work obligation or competence from the social work centres to another, by moving that criminal aspect away from the social work centre to the justice field, so that they can deal more with their basic mission at the expense of this social work centre. I estimate that the functioning of social work centres is stable and that everything is completely under control, but when there are individual anomalies, the current leadership has shown and proved that it is very quick, prompt to respond, to make decisions if someone has broken it, and I believe that we all believe that no one is doing it on purpose, even assumes responsibility and resigns. That too has proved to be true, and life goes on. Everything that happens, all the problems are solved up-to-date. We also mentioned that the CSD team has been strengthened over the last two or three years, which I estimate is positive, which will also further improve the functioning of social work centres. And if we take into account the whole range of steps that have been introduced in the last period, I believe that the social protection system in Slovenia will be able to carry out its tasks well. As it is said, it is a very complex and long-term process of some reorganisation, but it cannot be fully conceived only with some administrative reflection, but it is a process that is taking place on the contrary and needs to be adapted, complemented, and I believe that it will take at least some time, or I hope to argue, at least for a few years, until we reach the point when we say that this process is completed. And at this point, we can continue to think about how to further improve and supplement it. I thank everyone who will participate in this debate today. I hope it's constructive. However, I continue to wish the Minister a successful job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Nina Maurovich has the word, and she gets the word Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say that I have just one inch in my throat and a stone in my stomach today, and I'll tell you why later. At the outset, it could only be an introduction to what was actually the occasion of this question. We met with the Director of the Health Home, who had one problem on one occasion, when health staff needed the assistance of the Centre for Social Work at night. At that time, it occurred that neither she nor the others present knew who to turn to. At that time, we immediately asked the Minister how she gave us the answer, and we also informed the Director, so that we solved it in the first place. However, in his parliamentary question, Sitar then extended the matter in essence, in what way is the work of social workers and workers on the ground organised and in what way and where the 24-hour service is geographically available. In fact, it is true that we are also talking about this because I must say that I was surprised myself, and obviously those people who should know this are not at all on current and informed, so it is only right that this awareness is spreading. Today, there is little substantive debate about the former Minister, about employment, about various relations with the public, in fact, we must be interested today in what the reorganisation brings, or how much more field work will be in connection with the perception of violence. I am confident that the Minister will, too, promise to follow closely what is now going on in this area. She has promised to keep us informed of this, so I have no doubt that we will not be in the running very quickly in this area. But it is true that time must be given. Even in some company, if you make some changes, reforms, of course, everything will not run smoothly overnight, and no results will be visible overnight. It is always necessary to wait a few months for the results, if not even longer. I've been monitoring the Boturity Project for years, and I believe I'm not the only one. Yesterday, when I was driving, I heard a story about a girl who had suffered terrible violence in the family since her early teens. I must say, I am one of those lucky ones who has probably never met violence in my family before. Maybe that's why I have such zero tolerance for it, because it's incomprehensible that something like this can happen, especially in families. This girl suffered from eye-to-eye violence, and the matter went so far as to actually see how she killed her mother in front of her eyes. Then the girl landed in foster care and her story was extremely sad. Why am I telling you this? Because this original sin, which we are talking about and which is the real problem, lies in us Slovenians. I believe no one likes to talk about it out loud, but that's our problem. All these situations faced by the Centres for Social Work and their workers would not be all of these situations if there were not so much violence in our society and if we did not actually have such an incredible tolerance for violence. Police statistics aren't that scary, but we know why, because most of the victims of acts don't report. And it's not just that victims don't report acts, it's also a problem that the rest of us don't react to violence. I looked into it because I was very interested in how I could find possible informal data, and then I ran into a very, very wide survey of violence, from the area of violence that gave such data: 73% of Slovenians have encountered violence in their primary family in life. 73%. The 90 of us in here are sitting, that's what it means, the List of Marjan Šarcs, and not many of you have ever experienced it here, and all the others sitting in the hall have experienced violence. 73% of Slovenes, 71% of them in adults are Slovenes, women. Of this violence, it is then divided that 63% of the mental, which is just as severe as physical, 63% physical, 7% economic, 5% sexual. I think we have to have a very long and very honest conversation here with ourselves. In fact, CSD is the last one to actually solve this problem. We, if statistics are like that, at least those who live, live in blocks, have certainly heard some screams, seen how inappropriate behavior, conversation, what an earring, we must have witnessed it. So we reacted? Did we offer to help? Have we checked in? We didn't, did we? And if, as a society like that, we really had zero tolerance for violence, then the CSD would have significantly significantly less work, because these 73% are scary in my eyes and will not help us with a variety of actions against violence of women (Lj) I will kill you and so on until we really clear ourselves that violence is not acceptable in any way and anywhere. I have no universal solution to this debate today. I really just wanted to point out that we should look at ourselves as a society first, react to violence, educate victims or potential victims, empower them, help them, and then the last one comes to CSD. And if everyone in this chain really does what is necessary, I hope that there will be no more need for such debates as we have here today. I may totally idealistically hope that someday in the future CSD in this area will not even have any work, but this is mainly a matter of every individual, of us in here, especially because we are representatives of the people who voted us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Sonibo the Prince has the word, after which she will receive the word of Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam President, for your warm welcome, dear colleague and colleague! One part of this introduction has already been taken away from me by my colleague Nina, because the reason for this question, which was raised by my colleague Primož Siter, was because we were Zavek MPs on visits to institutions where we were called, one of them was also a conversation with the Director, I must stress, with the Director, who is only a short time in this job for a few months. After all the information I've been given now, it also turns out that it's not even well-educated about the system that works. Among other things, if she asked us or warned us that she was not organized in these critical cases of child abduction, I don't know, the alcoholization of the father, the singles, they took him away, they have no place to give the child, that he's not actually familiar with the system in his own house, unfortunately. I also did not appoint a healthcare home for the reason that I do not mention that because of the incompetence there is also dissatisfaction among employees and they also collect signatures for its withdrawal, but this is parallel. If I wanted to stick to the topic of the intervention service, I think it would be very short. The secretary said her thing. We have a regulated system, a system that works, a system for dealing with sad stories, in which children are often involved, in short, what was our common concern for at least four Members, that we cannot believe that we do not have a regulated system at this time, has turned out to be the case. The system's working, it's responding. Even what has been said several times today around the reorganisation, because now we are mixing everything again, if anything, this reorganisation has also helped, respected colleagues and colleagues that we have an expanded network of 12 after reorganisation now in 16 places after Slovenia. I'd end up here. Somehow, however, I cannot help but feel that this is a question that we were going to discuss today, to clarify whether we really do not have an orderly area, has now spread into something completely different. My friend Perič said earlier that he felt that it was some sort of reckoning, but in some way he would agree with him. About a month ago, I also said in one debate that it would probably be wise to think about, introduce a single column, I don't know, even remember comrades where those of you who have already two or three mandates in this national assembly may confess what you have been doing, what you have all thought, what you have been alerting yourself to, who is to blame. We're not a historical circle, I think it belongs to another period, but it looks like we can't get past this because they're obsessed with migrants, some are obsessed with former Minister of Labour Anjo Kopač Dark. These are the topics in which they will take every opportunity to do so again. I'd only say two more sentences about it. Let me remind you that last year was the election. Was there a minister good, or was there a client good? It's just that voters and voters have every so long an opportunity to decide, to judge us. Some are gone, some are halved, some have improved the result. What counts is this. The reorganisation is really a shame to lose words, it has been done for a good purpose, and I think it will achieve its goals, with problems that are usually present, as colleague Starović said, in every reorganisation, in all these projects, which, according to words, are also successfully resolved by the Minister's assurance. I don't know if I should open up this topic around the work itself, because I think, at least from the announcement made by my colleague Kordiš from the Left, I thought we would solve this matter quickly, but he has already announced, "we are still and we will talk a lot about reorganisation" and so on. It wasn't even a topic, but okay, if this was a question, now it's a topic that we're going to use to spit on the previous ones, all they've done wrong, and that's okay, and we're going to spend some time on it. This is a rhetoric that is used in these purposes, I am firmly convinced that we have this area as regards sociale in Slovenia. This also proves to us international studies that we are highly listed as a social state. Of course, we have many challenges. This is the hardest ministry I'd ever hope to take personally. These are not miles of roads you build, they're not bridges, they're not distribution of money for culture and so on. There are people in the back, everyone with their own story, at least with their own misery. And as a last resort, social work centers appear. The fact is, over the last 15, 20 years, we've only been loading these social work centres, imposing new tasks, not following them, not getting staff, not getting funding, not short-term human resources, no one's been dealing with the system. And in this, respected colleagues and colleagues, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark took a bite with the proposal of this new reorganisation. What encourages me is not the words of my colleague Pojbič, whom I do not think is helping him to replicate, but also sitting on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social, where we addressed this subject and the question of reorganisation, where representatives were involved, what I consider to be working in social work centres, through trade unions, expressed the hope that they would like to see as soon as possible this second phase, which was postponed by decree, because there were difficulties to establish as soon as possible because it will make their work easier. However, in order to realize that we will actually get the social workers on the ground, that is, this human resources sub-nutrition, where, as the minister mentioned earlier, things are being resolved. I don't know. I'll see if there's another debate. At the final stage, I'm going to take a few more minutes not to tell you what was going on in the previous system, what didn't happen, especially if I listen to some of my colleagues, and I don't think they're sleeping without remembering Dr. Anjo Copač Dark, how bad she was doing, and I'm going to count a few results where there are specific numbers in the back, so there's no demagogies to be checked. Let's take two minutes. It's a student's job arrangement. The student work was finally included in the insurance system. They can get two to three months next to their working age in the year. The number of unemployed is declining. She probably also has some of the measures her ministry has taken. Of course, it has also made its own economic situation as it is, because we all work, but the numbers are like that. The drop in the number of unemployed young people at the expense of new jobs. Raise cash social assistance for single persons and families. Receipt of the protection allowance, multiple recipients of state scholarships, multiple subsidies for lunch. The property records and the recovery of the aid received for beneficiaries of the security allowance and the cash social assistance were abolished. Pensioners – the minimum age pension is set at EUR 500. Annual allowance for all pensioners, after several years, all pensioners again received an annual allowance. Children’s allowance – 97 000 children from 2016 receive 10% of the higher child’s allowance. 45 000 are more recipients in 2018. Not to mention the measures that improve the situation of families, the Family Code, the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. Measures aimed at persons with disabilities – technical aid co-financed by the State, a European benefit card and could also be listed. Solving the problem of extended families. Today I found it extremely incorrect that specific cases, as Mrs Dimic stated in the case of the Korean boys. We would say, however, that the court has decided and adopted a decision that says in one sentence that it is right for children to grow up or grow up in their foster parents rather than in their parents. It's an epilogue if I pull it for a while. Children are such a polygon, and I am appalled when we gather these political points over their backs and the tragedies they face. We've written off the debt. Remember this thing. The right to a paid paternal leave has been extended. A system of multi-generation centres has been set up, and what kind of business is it? I don't know whether I'm going to make any more calls or not, because it doesn't make sense that some individuals are going to pour out their fears here today, but they're largely unfair and unfair. Of course, there are still many things to do at the social work centre. It's a living thing, working with people. So far, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Just to remind you, Mr Pojbič did not discuss it, he had only the position of the Group of Members. Janja Sluga has the word to prepare Željko Cigler for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much. My friend Knezak had such a good discussion at the beginning, so I was looking forward to this point, and then, my friend, you fell for that trick they set up for you when you started listing what was done. But by that moment, I can agree with you, yes, that it is not appropriate for us to be saying all of this about back, which has somehow passed. But if you list what was done in the future, that's what's going to make the other side count everything that was wrong. In fact, this case, which was the basis for this question, has also occurred relatively geographically close to me, not to mention the fact that I come from the Bellies after birth. That's why I've been doing some intense work on him, too, and I've been wondering what was going on. Therefore, I regret, on the one hand, that we are speaking in this sense today as if something had happened wrong in this case. In fact, the whole case was carried out very correctly. All that needed to be done was done, everything was done, the child was protected and so on. What happened wrong then began to happen when the matter was somehow accomplished. And in this place, as a citizen, I can only be amazed. In fact, these intervention services exist not from this reorganisation forward, but for much longer, by the fact that, of course, there is a difference now that there are 16, but previously there were 14, for these two differences, but there are always, and their tasks are always the same as they are. And what is really at stake in this case, what I see is not the case, were not the reactions of the police and the social work centre, but that someone who is highly educated, whom we expect to be very widely viewed, then at the end of the statement that he did not know that it exists. That's what surprises me. And I expect someone who's a doctor or even higher, a health director at home, to know these things will be self-initiatively asked, this somehow falls within the general view. All right, let's just leave it alone. I'm one of the 73% who have experienced these things in their family. I've been experiencing them for twenty years, the first twenty years of my life, and maybe because of that I know things a little bit more, I know how things work, but I can't imagine that one doctor who already has a duty when he meets cases of violence, that he has to report it to the police, that he doesn't know how the social work center works. That's incomprehensible to me. And if I completely banalize this problem and I go under the line and say, because after all, it doesn't matter whether the doctor knows that the intervention service exists or not, because it's the police who's giving him the alarm anyway, if we're completely banal. In fact, it is the doctor who turns to CSD within their regular working time to express himself, but the intervention service is the one activated by the police. And, colleague Siter, here I cannot agree with you when you say that these five cases you mentioned were statistical when the social work centres needed to react. You know, they react every time they're called, no matter what we're talking about right now, they're humanely fed, but it's not such a small number in my opinion because they're humanely fed, because, as a matter of fact, when the police alert them, they have to react, but there are so few of these cases because of what my colleague Nina used to say people are looking away. I was also in the block at home, you know, and all 40 parties in the block knew what was going on with us, and one of them didn't look, and one of them didn't react, and I was relatively small, and I had a sister who was even younger than me. So, here's the real problem. I also have zero tolerance for these things. When I met this case three, four years ago on the street in Celje, I stood out, but I was the only one. Here's the problem, everybody's still looking away. And it seems to me that we are somehow more aware in general that we are talking about this more, but I am afraid that the reactions do not then show up at the end of this. And I'm sorry that we're basically always suing around this reorganization, especially because we've already found out many times, yes, mistakes have been made. We cannot say that the matter was premature or too quickly done because, in fact, we had virtually more than half of this House's term of office devoted to this subject, we had meetings, we had internal meetings, we had committee meetings and so on and we talked about it. So it's not a time component that's problematic, it's an implementation component. And now, where we are, I think that Minister Ksenija Klampfer, as we have already identified several times, has reacted appropriately, very effectively, that those short contacts that have appeared have in fact gone away and that what was the basic objective of this reorganisation, which is also essentially with Members, I will say, lit that green light, at least a little in the head, that workers will be burdened to allow them to be more on the ground, that they will be more in direct contact with people, with customers and so on. This, after all, is my common goal for all of us, and I think that in the end we will really come to this goal if we are not very close to it. It is also good that, in addition to this reorganisation, which is intended to achieve this and reduce red tape, there is, in fact, a whole bunch of other factors that are now affecting or will have a very short impact on the fact that the centres will be burdened. I'm talking about, of course, the Krapan system, which has proved to be a very good solution in Zasavje. I am talking about the transfer of certain powers from social work centres to justice, we have been talking about rehearsals, family matters and so on. These are very complex things that I believe are actually going to put a lot of pressure on employees at social work centres. These automatic calculations of annual rights are, in fact, those that are already burdensome at the moment. I think we've heard from the board once that this 25,000 is a month. Let us leave these massive calculations, which we have slightly delayed, and nevertheless it is the fact that these automated calculations remain and unload the centres already. And, of course, those extra employees that the minister was already talking about today. Over the past two years, we have heard that the number of employees has increased by 11% and that this trend is still going to be maintained, in this year 73 and then that five-year period where we heard a figure of about 200 and so on. I have to say that at this point in time I don't see the situation so black that you could say that anything is wrong, on the contrary, I would say that things are going in the right direction. But maybe I'm going back to my initial thesis, because we've been on the committee a couple of times when we talked about these issues, and then there's the mag. Darja Kuzmanich Korva. I think that you all know the lady, and she also once in one of her discussions on one of the committees, drew attention to this part of the communication without being bad, but she talked about how well the social community works with health care or how they work hard, how they cooperate intensively. What she then highlighted as a problem, and I quote, she said: "There is certainly a problem in cooperation between health and social care, because health is very poorly responsive." And this is where we come up with this original problem, which is really why the health minister should be sitting there right now in this debate. I am sorry that, in fact, when we talk about more and more issues, we come to health in the end and to what is in people, after all, because when we look at the rules, everything is clear when we look at the procedures, everything is clear, and then it ends up stuck with someone who doesn't or doesn't know how to express himself. And now I hope that, at this point in time, the health authorities, if any, are aware of the existence of an intervention service at social work centres. I have also received this letter, which the Minister spoke of being sent to all health care homes after Slovenia on 18 February 2019, here at the end of which I quote: “If, in your work, you are faced with a specific case where the emergency would require action by the Centre for Social Work, please contact the Police, who will activate professional workers in the framework of the intervention service, if necessary. In the business time of the Centre for Social Work, you can refer directly to the centres for social work in those cases.” I hope that now, however, it is clear enough that no one can really say that he did not know that there was an intervention service, that he did not know that the police were the ones who called and activated them, and that, of course, every time they were summoned, they also respond and professionally resolve things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The proposaler Primož Siter asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u38	Yes, thank you very much. Just one brief intervention. When we talk about staff shortages at social work centres, we find that this is a problem because of one roofing point. Professional social workers are those who in nature want and are educated and trained to do professional work, they want to do professional work. The field data says they yearn for this, they want to develop social work, that is, educate the public, offer education and some awareness programmes about this and these issues, including how the intervention service works and works, but they cannot do this because they are too few because they are attached to bureaucracy and so on. The problem of staff shortages at social work centres is much more complex than what a fellow Servant pointed out that one would be people for intervention services. That's not what we're saying. These people are self-sacrificing and on call between weekends and nights, and there's no denying it. The problem is that there is not enough wide-ranging human resources machine to work on the development of social work centres and then intervention services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, followed by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u40	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Slovenia is a social state, while all citizens and citizens are equal before the law and in the social field, I must say that the largest part of this policy is taking place, and therefore the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is empowered, or through social work centres, which are a single entry point for the exercise of practically all social rights of citizens and citizens in force in this country. And this debate was triggered on the basis of several questions and initiatives by Members not to react quickly enough to the realization of these rights. In fact, we must be the body that provides legal and financial opportunities for social policy, which is guaranteed in Slovenia, such as social rights in legislation, to be implemented quickly and up-to-date. And this is today's debate. I'd say Levice, but we've always been proactive, we didn't go through criticism or demolition. I would just like to remind you that three years ago, when an intervention was given against the former Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Levica proposed five proposals, or six of them, how to solve certain things. Also cut the circle of poverty in Slovenia. At that time, we also suggested how to deal with this problem with debt write-offs. A very concrete proposal, too few of us have heard, too little. And that is, it is a criticism, in the event that we are heard, there would not be a breakdown, as it did with this project, that in one local community, where it is found that the 100,000 euro circus is owed by socially vulnerable people living below the poverty threshold to help them in the form of EUR 3 000 500. That's what we're talking about. Let's listen, let's react and act proactively. Secondly, I absolutely agree with you as far as human resources problems are concerned. The work carried out by workers at the Social Work Centres is very difficult. That's why I also understand many hospital absences, it's a difficult job, but the work, as it is now conceived, I have quite a few schoolmates and friends working in this area, say, Željko, we work practically with the computer, on the basis of applications and we draw data from 42 databases for individuals we have access to. We don't even come to the person who plays the part and we don't even know what state he's in. There has been a substantial amount of administrative work here, and I do not know, I hope, the ministry once, I think at the end of last year, explained that it wants to process matters as much through the information system as possible, that as much of the role as possible would be processed through the information system on the basis of databases that are available, that there would be enough time for social workers to deal with the problems that we have practically listed in this Parliament today, and that we will take advantage of this professional knowledge of workers. At the same time, I'd like to draw attention to this. Social work is a profession that is feminized. It's mostly about women who work in these difficult jobs. During the period when children or those who fall out because of fatigue, hospitals and so on, practically every day there are a large number of workers missing among social workers for these very reasons. This mannequin must also be accounted for when it comes to replacement employment, in order to facilitate this work and in fact the social state will be disappointed here. And I'd like to point out one more point. Social policy is mainly implemented through state institutions or through social work centres. A significant part of social policy also falls away from the local community. And when these budgets are adopted every year and are now adopted – I have worked in the local community, even in the administration – I must say that it is very important for decision makers to know the social situation of citizens and citizens of individual municipalities. To know how many pensioners, how many of them are alive, for example, in my Celje, below the threshold of poverty, there are protective supplements without which they could not live at all, and these are people who have worked their whole lives. That's a bunch of cumulative data. Or do municipalities know what salaries are available to those who are employed in this municipality, who are workers, how many are working under a minimum, how many are excuses, how many are working under an average wage, that is, one gros of data, cumulative data, which does not concern personal data. If local communities had this information and were to be transmitted through social work centres, I must say that then the local communities would also look at many social problems differently and, in my opinion, they would also be more funded. And that's where it's supposed to come in. I must say that our director of the Centre for Social Work in Celje has repeatedly warned about this, but this data is unfortunately not presented. I think we need to go out with these things, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Marko Bandelli, and Mr Predrag Baković is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. A nice hello to the Minister here. Yeah, we've heard a lot of opinions, too, from different perspectives on the situation. I will personally say that I very much welcome this reorganisation of social work centres. She was needed. It has been talked about for many years, and we have finally begun to change things in this direction. Of course, things can't be changed overnight. We cannot demand that one such system, a ministry which is budgetary, if we say so, be the most expensive in our country. And budgetaryly, this sector is also the most expensive in municipal budgets. To live in a social state, we know that, we are also satisfied that we can live. That there's not enough socialism, I can't accept it, because I think these are very difficult words. I think we're on the verge of anything we can offer anyone. I don't think everything is as bad as you're showing, as it's spoken on one side and on the other. Normally, it's a political ideology that shows more and more, and we're looking for other reserves, how we're going to help more, but we have to get to a point, to a point, when we say, look, this is it. It is necessary to optimise what is existing not always to seek new and new resources and money. Optimization of systems, processes, existing issues that we have. You were talking about feeding the personnel. What does human malnutrition mean? I agree with Siter, who said he was missing in a particular sector, here is malnutrition. There is a lack of control in a particular sector, mainly in control. Finally, I will say about social assistance and these things, because I have always been very critical of this, but nothing changes in this area. Municipalities, you need to know that there are a lot of social funding if we are looking at social issues in general, because it's a broad concept. You know, I'm gonna give you a banal case when I was mayor, a woman called me, why the congregation doesn't pay for her father's funeral, and a woman works, has a good job and everything. After giving up her father’s care at home, the congregation had to pay for everything, and in the end, she demanded that the congregation pay for the funeral. Now I'm giving you cases like this, social – where is once the border, where do you have to stop things? I know there's also talk about other things, about tribulation, about help, about that, about that. But there are certain things that need to be checked. And here I think it's also the job of the Centre for Social Work to check things out, to control it, because otherwise we're not going anywhere. We're just waiting for the country, and sooner or later, the country will no longer have that bag that we're going to pull for everyone, forever for everyone. I believe in the Minister that she will continue this reorganisation until the final stage. Of course, this is not an easy matter, and I think it will also take our help to give her hope and trust. While criticising previous ministers to criticize previous things, this is totally meaningless. It's totally lame. However, there are also many organisations that are helping to achieve this goal, which we are talking about today, such as helping in distress. As you know, there is also a phone, Tom, there are people who help come to help in such and other cases. As long as I've been looking at that thing, I'd make this simple. Because when you look at these numbers, it's eight, nine numbers, and a man gets confused when he needs something, he gets confused. So at this stage something should probably be looked at. You have a young people's phone, a women's and children's phone, mental distress, a fourth phone, a fifth for young people, and a sixth, and then you don't know who to call when it's really necessary. Here, these are the kind of things that need to be developed, solved and helped. I've heard one word before, "we've normalised the matter." We didn't normalize anything. We must not normalise, we must always be active, control, attention, control must always be. Always. We always need to know someone's in trouble. We must always know that there is a need for this. To conclude, I will say something else about social assistance. The secretary knows that when I was there, I was the only one who highlighted this problem, even in the government. I'm not against raising social assistance. The one who has the need, I'd give 50 percent more, real, with the heart. But there's a lot of exploitation. There's a lot of exploitation. And what you've said, a colleague from the Left, before, is exactly what workers do on computers, get roles, don't control and don't know who they really need or don't know. There's no control, there's malnutrition. In my congregation, I know, personally, who receives social assistance, the congregation pays them health insurance, and I know exactly that they work abroad, in black. Do you know how many of them there are? And this is where control is lacking. And they get social assistance. You know that the social assistance benefits RTV contributions are eligible for all the benefits, such as those and others. Controls are missing here, that's all you have to do. Once again, I would give 50% more to help him, but one limit and one control must be. When, how long has this social assistance been? You know, it seems to me that in Sweden, I once read that the person receiving social assistance doesn't have a cell phone and doesn't have his own car. I'm not gonna keep talking. I'm gonna make a dot here. Pika. Just think — to where? What does social assistance mean? Why? I won't, because if I don't, I'm going over here because I have my own view of it. [[…]] I'm only suggesting this to the Minister because I know what kind of thinking she has, what kind of work she has, what our help will be, we know you're engaging, you're trying to do this. What the former Minister started is just good and keep thinking and doing the job to the end. I do not think that this debate today will lead to any concrete results, just to reopen a million problems and problems that we know are, which we know will probably help us solve. So much for me for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word to prepare Mr Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u44	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear fellows! I don't know what personal experience you have with social work centers and contact them. I have to say that I've had experience with them since 1983, all the time professional, until now. When I've been following through these contacts with a variety of news and reorganisations, I have to say that things have been getting better. This is also the case with this last reorganisation that has been done. And I must say that I do not agree with the statement made in the introduction that this is a so-called infamous reorganisation. This is not an infamous reorganisation, but reorganisation with some systemic measures that make things better. I cannot help but be reminded that today's debate by some Members would not remind me of the story of military shoes. We all know what kind of pump he picked up because of these military shoes, what was going on, which boards everyone was working on, how they were debated. Yesterday we find out that there were 18 cases and that these shoes are superstandard. Even in this case, I have the feeling that some are just taking advantage of this opportunity to throw mud at someone who has tried his activity and with the expertise and knowledge that, of course, overcomes it, put things right. The minister herself said that the work of the intervention services was running away, that things were running out, that there were actually some terrible problems. I can say for myself, as it has already been exposed, but mostly everyone said that the social work centre for people, you know, is not just a social work centre for people to deal with, but it is also a purely normal service for working with people and it also works. As far as the intervention service is concerned, I can say from my own experience that it worked before and that it also works today. The difference between before and after the reorganisation is that the response time is faster, that sometimes we had to wait for the worker or the worker from the social work centre a little longer and, of course, there were some problems. However, I must say and be honest that the Centre for Social Work has always cooperated with all the other services that we have worked with them correctly and has shown a high level of expertise as well as today. And if we've cut back on the response time, it's extremely important. I also consider this to be a good thing, as far as reorganization is concerned. But the reorganisation is a set of three processes. It is a programme of social activation, informational calculations that have taken place, and a new organisational structure of social work centres, which has led to certain changes which I consider to be better, of course, benefits the users themselves. As far as the backlog is concerned, we cannot say that this is a systemic problem and that this is a problem that has led to reorganisation. If I put it quite practically, look, you have a tank where you have 10,000 liters of water or a thousand cubicles, as far as you can, and you have one pipe taken out, diameters one colo. You can't get any more water through this pipe than this tube allows, or there'll be a million cubics in the tank or ten. What am I trying to say? When these decisions are being prepared, data are being drawn from many databases, said 42, 36, 39, I don't know exactly how much. And if only one system or FURS does not work on internal matters or on the resident registry, the decision cannot be completed and the procedure cannot be withdrawn. And here's the main problem. But we all know that we have problems with the various ministries and departments with the servers, that this is being renewed, that it is not working today, that there is no other tomorrow, and that is why this is happening. What's important is that last pipe that leaves as much water as it leaves behind. The backlogs have been in Ljubljana, yes, they have indeed been, but we cannot re-assign them to the reorganisation, but we can attribute them to the internal organisation of the work and, of course, the numbers belong to the work and the number of employees who are there. As far as the Hrastnik case is concerned, I do not know him well, but given what I have heard today, I can estimate that it is not again a mistake of intervention service or profession, but a communication problem or a lack of awareness of both, i.e. a health home, a director or anyone else at the social work centre. If this communication has not been established, then some of the ways in which it works in these cases will also be really awareness-raising. But I tell you, whenever it comes to an intervention event involving either domestic violence or anything that just breathes a little after a crime or a crime, they always inform the police. And the police are the ones who know that there is an intervention service that knows how these things are served and activates them. So as far as I'm concerned, I have no fear. I believe that the intervention service and all these other things will continue to work as they should. I can't believe I really can't believe that some of you are dragging out a child-taking case again. With this you stigmatize all involved. Why are you doing this, it's clear to me, but it's not okay and it's not fair. I've been dealing with domestic violence a lot, and I've been wondering myself why, for God's sake, the social work center doesn't take the kids away, because it just seemed to me like some ignorant layman, that this was supposed to happen. Then they could explain to me why not. You know, this is an extremely difficult procedure. And I believe that the future minister will face such problems one day, or now the transfer has been made to court, but, nevertheless, if this were to remain in this area, she would face it and deal with it. And believe me, every child-absorbing measure is difficult and decided in extreme cases. And I don't want to, I don't want to believe and think about what would have happened if that action hadn't been said. And I'm not referring to an individual case, I'm referring to it at all. Let's trust the professions because they're the only ones who know how to work. We Slovenians, of course, are known for understanding music, politics and sports. We all know that, and we all know that, and we're the greatest experts. Yeah, well, we didn't. And simply, if you look at these comments about our winner on Emma, we all know everything. If we're talking about our basketball players, we all know everything. And here, when a measure happens that was, I believe necessary and necessary, we must trust the profession. As far as domestic violence is concerned, I've been through a lot. I tell you, yeah, it's true, people are hypocrites, we hear violence, we hear them fighting, we hear kids crying, we hear a lot of things, but it's none of my business, I'm not gonna expose myself, you know, it's a problem, because then I'm gonna have to go to court, and then he's gonna look at me badly. You know, in the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence there is a well-written duty to report. And it says that everyone, everyone, not just a professional service, not just doctors and anyone who already realizes that the victim is a child abuser or a person with special needs, if I can so express that he is obliged to commit a crime. However, I believe that this is not done by people, not least because there is probably no sanction, although there may be, leaving the complaint exists in the Penal Code and beyond. However, simply after things break out, they appear on Facebook first, but what the minister did, what the social worker did, and because they do nothing in there, they write some decisions without connection. And tomorrow, when one of them doesn't get a decision, he's going to have to do it because he didn't get a decision. It is right that today's debate has taken place. I hope that all those who normally follow the situation will be drawn from all of this, I would say, good and bad debates, the essence and not least try to understand for themselves what it is, and also the profession, the minister and the team themselves, to hear the reflections that we are playing here. However, I believe that everyone has taken an interest in their social work centers as to how things are going there. So did I, I'll tell you. I can tell you that there are no backlogs in our center of business. Of course, there are challenges, problems, like everything else, in every company, but things are being solved. And it requires the opposition to suspend Dr. Kopač Mrakovo's presidency, I will say, a colleague has put himself in some role as a judge and has handed down his judgment. Judgment: Anja Kopač Dark is guilty, sentence of exorcism from the government, dot. And that reminds me of not some other time that you just know a lot more about. You know, the worst injustice happens to a man when he is convicted of a man who has all his knowledge, energy, expertise, whatever he has put in to improve the system, and he is actually spittin' out just because he's not a real political option. And that bothers me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish has the next word to prepare Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The whole debate on the reorganisation and all the consequences that this reorganisation has brought with it, I think it's just a symptom. More than rooting is a symptom of the problem and the problem is said to be that social policy from some idea, let's help people than society that can't themselves, and they're in difficult situations in life, they're assuming that those who want social assistance who want some other social transfers, that they're just lazy, that these people are lazy who don't want to work. Nothing could be further from the truth. However, this has been the premise of social policies in this country for the past decade or so. We have already tried to reverse the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs course in Levica in the previous term, but we have had to literally excite these corrections. We were tough and long battles, like a free lunch for schoolchildren in poor families. It was a story that dragged on for a year and a half! For a year and a half, we fought for an advanced social measure, which, from the point of view of the budget behind us, did not even have any targeted consequences, we talked about a few million, but we had to knock first on the door of the ministries, then break through the doors of that ministry, only after the broadest civil society was actively involved, only under this pressure did we succeed with free lunches for poor schoolchildren. This is not an isolated case, nor is raising social assistance to EUR 385 – at the end of the previous term, we forced it, after 4 years of warning, exposing, interpreting, persuading. The return on social assistance was another problem that we had encountered in the previous mandate and where we tried to shift the penile nature of social policy into a solidarity nature. As the state seizes or sits down to receive social transfers, this is totally unacceptable, then there is no aid, it is just some form of credit. Although our request for a complete removal of the return on social assistance was not heard in the National Assembly, we were stubborn enough, persistent enough that, at least in some part, former Minister Anja Kopač Dark in the Government of Mir Cerar had to give in and at least partially eliminated the return on social assistance, of course it must be eliminated in full. The minimum wage, after all – we had to wait 4 or 5 years until the new government to agree on a new minimum wage law that has only seriously raised the minimum wage. Four years ago, as if we were talking in vain, but because we were talking a lot, because we were also stubborn here, the minister had to step down and she herself started proposing higher amounts of raises of minimum wages than she had previously proposed. What I want to show is how much this mentality of the penal disciplinary control approach to social assistance and the management of work and social affairs has taken root. In this mandate, we have the opportunity to finally cut through this policy. In Levica, we see as the first horizon how we can do this to debirocratise the entire system of social work centres or the whole system of social assistance. Let the social workers not be bureaucratic supervisors looking for hair in the egg, so that someone, some poor person there who is in distress, does not expose his euro to what he needs, but that he has little, as far as social transfers are concerned, for an individual to get away with it. A good step in this direction would be not only a better reorganisation of social work centres, but also a purely legislative concept. And the socialists here are here defending basic income. This is not a universal basic income that can go in the neo-liberal direction of abolishing the social state, no, we are talking about basic income as a cushion on which an individual can lean, that he does not have to accept any dishonest, exploitative, underpaid work. Yeah. Instead of looking around social work centres to find out who has some real estate or modest savings, so that they do not expose them to social assistance, and to subject an applicant to demeaning police mechanisms, we provide basic income as a right, as well as something that can be for someone who is more able to walk through a life that is older, let us say, a widow who does not have social networks, that we as a society have a mechanism that can fix it and who can help a person. You're in trouble, you get help, end of story. Not that now someone dealing with social assistance needs to review a few ten different registers, databases – 30 or how many? Some kind of bizarre number is to find me somewhere not to give some poor guy his social assistance. How is the reorganisation of social work centres incorporated in this context? This reorganisation was carried out just before the end of the last term and was carried out on the nose. This was a pear operation by Anje Kopač Dark, which overpowered the actual needs of our social system, which overthrew all the warnings of the professional public, employees at social work centres and led to the collapse of the system, he retreated. Social workers burned, exhausted at these social work centres, even to the point that some have quit. This is not a successful reorganisation. We can't call this anything other than an infamous reorganization. Go to any social worker, ask him how he feels about this reorganisation. And I don't think there's one person who would tell you that it was a good thing. And I see today's debate as an intervention on the initiative of Comrade Siter to start talking about the organisation of social work centres or, if you want, to talk again, because before this reorganisation came into life, obviously we are not. And we didn't. But the elections had to be held down, so that the flag could wave in front of the cameras, and now the whole social system is paying for these mistakes. It is also noticeable at individual level. What makes you think they missed their scholarships? Why was it late to process applications for child allowances, subsidies for kindergartens and so on? Yeah, because the system just snapped. I'm a little surprised that the current management of the Ministry of Labour has been able to do anything but do whatever it takes to flush this Auggie barn. I am just glad to find someone who is willing to do this for the needs of the whole society and for the needs of all individuals in distress. I fully support this action. From here on, I think it will be necessary to capture even more ambitiously, with amendments to the legislation and with changes to the basic concepts on which the social security system is operating in this country, without persecuting the alleged fraud and causing the loss of a whole range of innocent people. Let us ask ourselves how to help people, not how to deny them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Knezak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you. I won't be very substantive, because I fully agree with him, but I think it's right that we rightly state. I would just like to respond to the fact that the reorganisation of social work centres was not a pear action by Dr. Anya Kopač Dark before the elections. This did not start in March last year, the project was being prepared for two years, including all stakeholders from labour unions, professional workers, so I think it is also right to complement this fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish has the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you for your procedural, Madam President. You can intervene by incorporating some actual items. Let's say that the Ministry of Labour has paid AT Kearney 340 000 euros for this reorganisation and management of this organisation, because I believe that even in response to my parliamentary question raised by Anja Kopa Dark, they are unable or unable to carry out these reorganisations themselves. How this 340,000-euro advisory company has brought this reorganisation down, we see. Obviously, all of these finances went solely and simply because the slogans revolved around the phenomenon. And I'm sorry, but I can't buy your thesis. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u51	Mr. Kordish, what's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u52	My procedural proposal is that, at such times, the President, you can jump in, even on my behalf, and actually correct the previous debater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u53	Well, thank you for your procedural proposal, but as you know, I am holding a meeting and must not interfere either with the debate or in the replicas of individual Members and Members. I remind you, however, that in the future of the procedural proposal, you should focus more procedurally on the level, rather than exploiting this institution for discussion. We continue the debate. Mr. Joseph Lenar has the floor. But get ready to be a magician. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Madam Secretary! We already know that today we are talking about violence within or outside the family, and this usually happens against women and children, which is of course regrettable, as well as punishments. Unless it is identified and resolved in a timely manner, it may also be the basis for tragedy in various forms, including in the form of deaths. So after this salary we can see how important a job or mission has a social work centre and employees there. It is the place where children, mothers, underage girls, as well as the basic means of survival and survival, are most often decided on. That is why this subject and debate are, of course, welcome here today. But the area is as sensitive as possible. Unfortunately, it is also true that in recent times the social work centre, as well as the ministry, especially the previous one, has been in a bad voice. People have lost confidence in his righteousness, which is not right before, is sad. Above all, it is sad for those employees who really do this with their heart, who are working hard, who are in need of a social sense, and who are emotionally intelligent enough to do this difficult work. In fact, not everyone is suitable to work with vulnerable groups and has all the time to identify the truth and the right for these people, so that they want to help the needy and that they can separate weeds from grain in case someone tries to abuse the system. I really appreciate those good employees. Because I'm not sure how they can even stand and endure long years at work like this, because it's actually a matter of when you can burn as a person, and it's actually very tiring if you have too much work to do, it says, with a lot of quality falling down, which is perfectly logical. At the same time, the centre itself and the system of the centre for social work in recent years have very low levels and even after the organizational salary has been very limping, there are no dilemmas here. There seems to have been too many mistakes in the recent past, and there has also been a lot of recovery, instead of better ones, i.e. backlogs, mistakes, unresolved decisions, if I say sometimes some roles and dead letters on paper, and then waiting and waiting. The causes are at least partially known today, and if they are, this is a reaction now. So now it is time to move something forward for the better, I see that the Ministry is moving to work, and I am interested in the results, namely the results of these improvements, these inputs, these improvements of the system, both through information and technology and the reorganisation of the social work centres. But for the evaluation and effect of this new information system, or whatever you call it, it's still too soon, as has been said. From reorganisation and further employment, the first effects should now somehow be seen, it is said, there is still talk of certain backlogs. At this point, I believe the password that the Ministry of the Territory has placed on the ground is closer to the people. We cannot see the real picture from afar, so I welcome it to be our experts, but indeed experts, more among the people. However, opinions are often different. If someone's just taking it as a criticism now, like, I don't know, chimping all the work up until now, it's not okay, but constructive criticism can be good sometimes. User opinions are shared today, some say that things are dragging, some point to the degrading attitudes of employees, to the arrogant attitude, to the attitude of some higher powers towards these users. And of course it shouldn't be. Even if everything is not wrong, it is only right that those who do not have a sense of working with customers be expelled from professional teams. It should also be ensured that those who know and try to do so have respect for their working relationships and normal working conditions, in the form of adequate amounts of work and, of course, the complexity of work, appropriate to their education and expertise. On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, which I am also a member of, we closely monitor and expect all the expertise and up-to-date resolution in the event of violence; data shows that it is still too much. The additional causes are certainly also that many people are still living below the poverty line, and some of their problems are trying to drown, alleviate in various ways, perhaps alcohol. And then there's a lot of trouble in families, a fight. Good prevention for much of the problem, respected and respected, can also be found in this hall. We can help save by providing the Slovenians with a decent life. Indeed, given how this country has been run in recent years, one thing is certain: the pressure of citizens, among whom women and children are most vulnerable, will not be less soon. Of course, the reflection of our society is also a reflection of every parliamentary call, because it is extremely important what laws we vote here and whether we are concerned enough in this work, whether our decisions, new laws and regulations really bring better results, better lives to people. Either because of these people, they live better, or our people’s decisions go into even greater financial, physical, and mental distress. Therefore, dear colleagues and fellow Members, especially from the coalition, do not ever fear to support the good proposals of the opposition, perhaps one of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because this may also make you more sleepy. One and one, conscience can also be a nightmare. In the course of the debate, I recalled the recent sad case in our environment in Ptuj, which was that for five years the prison sentenced a man who raped a teenage girl and then wanted to sell her services to others by blackmailing them with threats and fraud. What can I say? It's the law, and this is where he was admitted in one of the previous phone calls. The penalties for this and similar crimes against women are undoubtedly too much. Let me touch on the proposaler's opinion that everything hasn't been all right yet. I have to agree with that, because if something like this were to happen in the economy, someone would have already left. If someone was behind in the factory for seven days, the owners would be looking for responsibility, first the director, then they'd be looking for owners. And if I hadn't arranged it, the director would have been looking for a job elsewhere. Therefore, it is our responsibility, we also expect it from the ministries, secretaries and, of course, from all the employees of the Social Work Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Meira Hot, get Eva Irgle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that the work of social work centres has been criticized by the public for many years, especially in terms of response in cases where timely and rapid action was urgently needed and in terms of their bureaucracy. It seems that every change in legislation in the area in question has brought a number of additional, if I say, paper tasks, which has led to the increasing number of professionals and workers spending more and more time on the inventory of various documents and the fulfilment of the forms, leaving less and less time for the basic mission to be carried out by the social work centres concerned, namely, the professional and qualitative implementation of the care for the individual and for the family in social distress, thus providing assistance to the individual facing the insurmountable problems and providing support and finding solutions to the problems in question. In this context, timely action and preventive action are therefore of paramount importance, and this cannot possibly be achieved through normal office work. We need to go to the field, and interviews need to be conducted, especially in cases of widespread domestic violence, which are unfortunately very common. By the way, with regard to family violence, we may also need to assume a slightly greater responsibility as a society and acknowledge that it is not an individual problem of individual families but a social problem and that it is the responsibility of all of us to warn about domestic violence, to be vulnerable to child abuse, to be sensitive to individual abuses and then to immediately warn and act. It does not claim that the reorganisation of social work centres has brought additional bureaucratic tasks. The fundamental objective of the reorganisation was to allow and encourage more space and more time to carry out professional tasks, to make services more accessible and to unify different practices of different centres for social work. The reorganisation project, which was, at least as far as the work of social work centres is concerned, was the first in 25 years and was more than necessary. As has been pointed out several times today, the information equipment of social work centres has been extremely poor in the past. Work in the field, too. The implementation of the basic mission of social work centres, as I have already said, has been disabled precisely because of excessive red tape. While attempts to change the work of the cents were introduced in 2000, no one, unlike the minister of the previous government, had the courage to undertake such a demanding project in an integrated manner. Unfortunately, problems also arise in this type of reorganisation, which, of course, need to be addressed immediately and addressed without delay. In this context, there has been and is still an exceptional problem of human resources malnutrition in social work centres. But although it has already been highlighted several times, I would like to reiterate that in 2017 and 2018, in the mandate of former Minister Anja Kopač, the number of jobs in social centres increased by 11%, that is 140 new jobs. The previous Minister also signed a medium-term employment plan to employ 235 new people over the next five years. We are pleased that current Minister Ksenija Klampfer has a hearing and vision to continue his work and to address the challenges that have emerged in practice and, above all, to promise to continue and solve the human resources malnutrition that is now truly the greatest challenge. It should be noted, however, that human resources malnutrition cannot be resolved in a short period of time. Let me add that the actual additional burden for workers will be the implementation of the new Family Code, which has transferred certain powers from social work centres to the courts and also some of the powers of moving the probation service to the Ministry of Justice. I therefore agree with today's debates that it is necessary to relieve professional colleagues and colleagues of social work centres. Let me stress that this has been done to a certain extent with certain measures taken under the reorganisation. Thus, decision-making on annual rights from local centres has been transferred to special units for decision-making on public funds currently organised at 16 regional centres. Meanwhile, local centres are now deciding on a protective allowance, cash social assistance and, above all, providing assistance to individuals and families and responding to specific problems, so they are dealing with substantive issues. Finally, let me say that I welcome today's debate, which took place at the initiative of my colleague Siter. And I think it is right that certain doubts about the work and intervention of the field services are indeed resolved here today. I hope, however, that today's debate on the criticism of the work of the former Minister, as has been seen in the specific positions of today's parliamentary groups, as well as in certain debates, because this is not really appropriate, is not justified, and even less, I believe that there are reasonable indications of certain exploitative purposes of our party. Because our goal was the opposite. The aim was to relieve workers of unnecessary red tape, to enable and perform basic social protection tasks. In short, I hope that the aim of today's debate is to draw attention to certain shortcomings, to come to solutions, and above all to show real concern for the fellow human being and for the social workers and workers, but not to pursue certain policies and populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word, the proposaler only has a notification that Mrs Eva Irgle has resigned from the debate, so that she has the next word then Boštjan Koražija. Here you go, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Several responses or responses to several points that have so far taken place in the debate. I am very pleased that we all agree on the main dimensions of this debate. So we know what the problem is, we know what the main challenges are, we know that malnutrition is a pressing problem and that it needs to be addressed. In the course of my discussion, I would reply to my colleague Bandellia, who is wondering exactly what malnutrition means. I will make it very clear, or I will use the words of the profession that actively engaged in solving this problem, the professions that work and live at social work centres. Now one step back, this year's rebalancing predicted that the centres would receive additional resources in terms of the budget adopted and that this number includes 73 new jobs. That's the thing that I think we're all consonantly greeting. Today, there are thus thousands of 306 people at the centres of employment, the new 73 will be welcome, it is a nice number, a nice percentage, but still there comes a new set of responsibilities with the Family Code or with a bunch of other things coming. In the multitude of all that I have previously pointed out that we have social workers, the professional staff who wants to work in their field will remain in this existing human resources pool in their administrative field, new ones will take on new responsibilities, this manna in the social work we are talking about today will remain uncontested and we will not solve this problem. To create a statistical picture, Slovenia is deeply below the average of the European Union according to the proportion of social workers. A total of 100,000 employees reach 42% of the European average. In European countries, an average of 100,000 people employed 851 professional social workers are employed; in Slovenia this number is 770. Plus, as we heard earlier in the debates, these people work between weekends, work afternoons and evenings in cheers, are exhausted and burned, and would like to contribute to the development of social work, to the development of the social work centre institution. This problem is not only in the profession, but also in an interesting geographical distribution where some centres are complaining that 73 new jobs have not been sufficiently addressed. And if I go back to my native Trbovlje, there I was reported that for one of those green branches, that urgent, healthy operation of their work needed six new jobs, they got one. I understand that 73 figures that need to be creative and distributed across Slovenia, but nevertheless, the unfair geographical distribution is even deeper, further deepening the already-different distribution among those most in need. Since at one end it is then possible to deal with their problem more effectively, on the other, and again to divide citizens and citizens into two classes. I have a few questions for the Minister below. According to my information, at the beginning of last year, the CSD called on the Ministry to strengthen this human resources pool and that it is a necessary number for social work centres not to breathe into gills but to breathe in their power and, as is the case, the number 450 of new jobs. Then, in dialogue with the Ministry, they reached some compromise 200. And it's supposed to be consistent with some document, some memo that Anja Kopač Dark signed the day before she left the Ministry. I wonder if this is serious information about what this document is, and then if we go back to 73 jobs, what key did you get to number 73, which centers are the most burdened or which ones will you be, and how will you relieve them with these 73 most? And then one very, very big question: What is the problem? If the profession or the terrain says we need 450 people, why can't we hire 450 people? Why are we looking for compromises in 200 or worse, in 73? What are the actual obstacles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms Minister applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u60	Mr Siter, regarding your statements about CSD Zasavje, where Trbovlje belongs – your statements do not apply. CSD Zasavje is one of the most human resources-enhancing centres for social work, so they also received only one additional job. It is one of the rare CSDs, which has so far been 90 per cent staff-reinforced and will be strengthened by new employment of 92.41 per cent, currently one of the most human resources-enhancing centres for social work. Regarding the extra number, 450, this one is unknown to me, the number I have is half lower. However, in addition, as I have said before, we have been watching closely the recruitment of social work centres, and we have come from the current situation in particular. We have carried out detailed analyses according to uniform criteria and have found that I keep repeating that the centres have been strengthened differently, and on this basis we have also distributed these 73 new jobs. So in all suspicion, the social work centres are now 87% staff-reinforced. What I would like to point out is that she was, as you know, with 1. 10. reorganisation of social work centres to simultaneously automate procedures, mass IT calculation 1. 12. As you know, because of the risk, the possibility of collapse of the system had to be removed from the legislation and I prepared it immediately in October following an urgent procedure to amend and supplement the Law on the regulation of rights from public funds. However, despite the risks, we have maintained an informational calculation, which started on 1 March, which means that for all these annual benefits, customers will not have to re-invest in the application, i.e. for scholarships, kindergartens, subsidies, lunches and lunches. Once this right has expired, the system will automatically generate, which means less administrative work in practice. As you know, with March 1st we started the launch of the Krapan system. Krapan will also allow less administrative work. Initially, it was the decision of the previous management to move forward with the introduction of the Krapan on January 1st, we postponed the matter for two months and did a little differently. In this way, we started a pilot project in Zasavje first on 1 February which showed positive results, so we decided to start with the introduction of Krpan after other centres for social work, but gradually. What does that mean? Every week we will connect one social work centre, which means that all social work centres will have the same support from all informatics and both ministries, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Public Administration. So every week, one CSD. We closely monitor the responses in the field and respond appropriately to both ministries. We expect that at the end of June, this system will also be introduced at all social work centres. Why am I telling you all this? It is precisely because these are the things by which we automate procedures and which will also bring an end to certain administrative tasks. On this basis, we will then draw up one such document at the end of June and also re-evaluate the further human resources need for social work centres. We will monitor this without delay, and where the need for additional personnel is demonstrated, we will also provide them there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. He now has the floor, Mr Koražija, to prepare Mrs Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u62	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I would just like to say that after all these discussions at meetings, extraordinary, regular, urgent, and committees, I think we have a serious problem, Members, policy. I think it will be necessary to go back to the foundations and to the roots, and this is the fact that Slovenia is a social state. Given that we have only 42% coverage of employees at social work centres against the European criterion and that we are missing inspectors at the Labour Inspectorate - and I think that more than 42% - will have to go back to the fundamental roots and take care of it. Because we are not Members here to deal with the past, but we are here to ensure a better and better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Natasa Sukić, to prepare Mr Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I am trying to follow closely this debate in which there have been no unusual claims, from not being a historical circle to giving, because it is not so bad and so on. In short, this debate is necessary. And not just today, it will take so long for certain anomalies in the system to really disappear. That there are no such anomalies and that the very famous word reorganization means that now these anomalies have miraculously disappeared, will not hold, or have not yet been confirmed, or will hold. As this famous reorganisation was carried out before the end of the mandate, it was stuck on the start, even for some objective reasons, I am not saying that no, the information systems have not yet been adapted and so on. But I will still try today to touch on what the new Minister has actually stumbled upon, and she has not stumbled upon an easy matter. I'm going to touch on the problem of logistics for social work centres, maybe their still poor uniformity, not really connectivity, and I'm going to prove it on the case. I will touch on the fact that the social work centres are still human resources. The challenges for this time government and for all other governments are and will be to complete these centres to the point that they will not be stuck and that people will not be exhausted, the professional workers will be exhausted in the administration instead of working with people, in the field to really know cases and problems and will really devote themselves to them. I'm not saying, this reorganization has great goals on paper itself, the model on paper stands on me. It is up to me if you say that you will organize a common service, that you will organize a service to enforce rights from public funds and so on, and that you will also organize a common professional service and that this will all be united, connected and so on. Great! I hope it's true. But look, we're not a historical circle, but things have gotten worse from the government to the government. This is also part of the decommissioning of the social state. Who was the one who was very bureaucratic about these procedures at the social work center? Pahor's government, then Minister Svetlik, was unfortunately involved by his secretary, Anja Kopač Dark. I am sorry to mention this name, but it is not my intention to specifically attack former ministers or then secretaries. However, I must say that this person has been involved in the creation of these policies all the time, and, as Minister, has proposed a reorganisation towards the end of her previous mandate, which I hope will work otherwise. However, I must say that the Minister is not only the one who proposes reorganisation, he has to react in a timely, up-to-date manner, the new Minister knows very well what a difficult case we have recently faced before the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, with the case of desperate parents of blind and visually impaired children who have sought their right from 2003 onwards. Since 2003 onwards. What's this all about? It is about the fact that social work centres have misread or interpreted legislation, that there was no real connection with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities in the past, which would really explain that one social work centre paid both the allowances they had to receive and only one, and they also damaged them for 30,000 euros. And when the parents decided to finally sue the country, one succeeded and the other thirty failed. What's the situation now with the other 30? Such ones were faced with executions because people in social distress did not have enough money for legal aid. And who's suing them? Yeah, social work centers! And the Ministry. But I hope that this will be resolved now, and I think the new minister is very involved and should be commended. You're not on strike, so much so we can understand each other. What he's trying to say is that the system didn't work. Even so, it did not work so that all social work centres would act unitedly. Why didn't it work? Because the Pahor’s government has made sure that people had to deal with reviewing not only how many registers, 30 or more, that they were looking for where they would find someone, that they wouldn’t give them social assistance, but when their error occurred, look what happened. Even today, the Minister is working very hard to solve these problems of desperate parents, who have even been threatened with executions, that is, before total social collapse. That is why I say, the Faculty of Social Work trains social workers well, their primary task is to work on the ground, to work with people, not to lose so much in the Kafkayan halls of bureaucracy. Then, of course, the system will finally work. That's what we're warning you about. 73 new co-workers have been confirmed, but not enough, since these 73 have also received some additional amount of work, a new commitment, and this does not solve that deficit from before. It is said that the new government and the subsequent governments are waiting for hard work to be completed, in particular by staff, in an appropriate manner, but I believe that the current minister will see for herself whether the proposed reorganisation is truly optimal or will itself upgrade it in the face of situations, depending on the needs. This is not an attack on Anjo Kopač Dark on nothing, nor is it a historical circle. It is necessary to know why we are here where we are, to know that things are serious, and to be aware that these debates are necessary. And not just today, they'll be needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik has the following word and, as the last debater, Mr Marijan Pojbič should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u66	Vice President, thank you very much. I agree with the predecessor that there is always a need for debate on this, but whenever we talk about an area that you, Madam Minister, cover, we can come to a very slippery ground. Here in the position Mrs Iva Dimic has already put forward one such topic, namely, the Koroan boys – let's stop it! In the previous term, the Korean boys were used for political accounting, and here I say, as mentioned earlier, that the court gave the right, it gave the Ministry the right. And now, a few years later, the ministry and all the jobs were right. Let's stop counting on the kids, stop counting here in the National Assembly. Earlier it was said that the reorganization was necessary, that is what Mr Pojbič said in his position, or that we all knew that the reorganization was necessary, but no one did. You led two governments, and no one dared to go because we all knew what a difficult area that was. Anya the Digger of the Dark has gone on to do so. It was also said that it was a pear action. This was no pear action, the project lasted two years. The project lasted for two years and, in fact, coordinated with a number of stakeholders at all levels, from politics, professions, governments, ministries, the National Assembly, held weekly meetings on this topic, established an expert consultation group, participated with the Social Chamber of Slovenia, the Faculty of Social Work, with the Society of Social Workers and Workers, were organized throughout Slovenia. So it wasn't any pear action, but it was an action that was necessary. We all know the reorganization was and is necessary. There was also evidence of a non-functional information system in the first week of reorganisation, which was essentially true, but it must also be realized that this system includes 36 bases. And if only one base, if I understand correctly, doesn't work, then the decision can't be printed. I understand that. Whenever this date was chosen, we'd run into these problems. Why did they miss their scholarships? The presence of deposits at CSDs is always present during this period, all the years, which is likely to be confirmed by the Minister. This has been the case in recent years, and it was the same last year. Why? Because of the removal of austerity measures in relation to family benefits and applications had to be granted to those who had been denied a scholarship in the past for reasons of overcensity, and also to all those who had retired from the grant. That's why they were behind. I will now quote the president of the Social Work Centre Union on 20. 12. 2018 for the U.S.A. said: »In the union we do not agree with the Ministry of Labour that the real reorganisation would be the main reason for delays in the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Delays have been ongoing since 2012, and the main reason for them is human undernutrition.” And since we are all aware, the Minister has also been aware of this and increased her employment by 140 in 2017/2018, and the Minister has also signed a medium-term employment plan for the next five years. You all have comments on the work of former ministers, current ministers, but when it comes to the situation that either the Moon or Kordish can take over the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Families, you say no. I hope you will take courage in the future, and this ministry will take over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the last word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! I must say that I have listened very carefully to this debate, and I think it is welcome to the meeting of the National Assembly, despite the fact that some debaters have tried to protect the one who is responsible for the situation and situation when we are talking about the reorganisation of social work centres. I think that it is not a matter of individual political parties here, but it is a question of the people who have been in these positions and who have been responsible for running this project. According to my assessment, this project was conducted improperly, very poorly by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, and not all the details that should have been prevented before they decided to let this system go to life were known. This has not happened and then we have come to terms with the consequences that we are now facing, which have been faced by those who needed decisions for the children's allowance, and so on and so forth, I will not explain again in particular. This did not go on in itself, it took more than six months. This is extremely unacceptable and unacceptable. And this was due to the reorganisation of social work centres. Today, a lot of words have been said that there is a front with someone. I think this is an extremely unfair and extremely unfair and incorrect claim. The fact is that it is here today that we have the consequences of a poorly managed decision, i.e. a reorganisation, and it is clear that once in this country it is necessary to establish a way that if someone has done something wrong, someone has been well paid for it, you cannot reward him, but must be responsible for it. It must answer politically and must also respond materially. Because if we do not do so, then in this society we will continue to see what is happening now in many cases — that no one is responsible for anything. And then it's logical that no one's worried about anything either, because they run state money. If it were from my own wallet, and if I were to use my own wallet to do a project like the one that the secretary here did this project, believe me, I wouldn't do that in my life. Because that's when you should pay out of your pocket. It's easy to do this with social, state money. This is what seems important to me, and this is what needs to be pointed out. I am also convinced that all those who know at least one point about the functioning of social work centres know – because I have spoken to many directors all over Slovenia – that when this reorganisation was being prepared, the directors were not heard, they were not heard by social professionals. And it has not yet been heard by many of those who have warned the Minister, please do not go so fast with this project, because we simply do not have the basic basis, the ones needed to make this project come to life. And it turned out that they were right. Today, I hear that someone with such manipulations, with various word cartridges, is trying to evaluate this, but it's not true! Then he lies to himself, lies to those people who are watching this national assembly today. Believe me, most of those who work at social work centres see this debate today, and I am sure that many — if they can’t watch — are listening to the director of social work centres. I must say that one bright point in this story is the current minister. I, too, must personally commend her for making quite a few significant moves in the direction that this system could begin to function normally. He is not a member of the SDS party, but he is a person who, in his work, proves that he is doing good, fair and responsible, and I very much appreciate that. What I've said so far, I think it's clear. After all that we've been listening to, after all that we've tried to objectively point out honestly the mistakes that have been made up to this point, I think it's sufficiently said that we know that this system has been poorly prepared and that it doesn't work as it should. However, I will try some more numbers and also contracts that have been concluded for the participation of some agencies in achieving this objective, which we are talking about today. I will also mention some of them with numbers, and perhaps someone sitting here today in this Chamber will be a little clearer what we are pointing out in the Slovenian Democratic Party. If this is the way to spend taxpayers’ money, it is clear that this system has never been able to come to life. I'll give you a few things and some evidence. Here I have a document, a proposal for a contract with the contractor A.T. Kearney. On the 19th. Ten. 2016 was the implementation of project management services for the restructuring of the social work centres of the Republic of Slovenia, hereinafter referred to as CSD, and the preparation and implementation of the communication strategy in support of the organisation of social work centres for internal and external stakeholders, in accordance with the tender documentation. With the support of project management, A.T. Kearney was in charge of leading and directing the project group and drawing attention from its experience to critical performance factors, possible departures from the restructuring plan and the necessary adjustments. Accession also provided support in one part for project management, and also ensured that the project group addressed all relevant stakeholders in employment and the professional public to decision makers of NGOs and the media in a timely and correct manner. The Ministry was also reminded of how to actively involve individual stakeholders in different phases of the project in order to achieve the objectives set. Now I'm gonna get to the figures. Look, we have a team of people at the Ministry who should run this reorganisation! That's my grade. I'm sure there's enough of them. It says here that this company is bound by this contract to lead and direct the project group. So this company was the one that led and guided the project group set up by the Ministry. I don't know why we need the Ministry of Social Work, the people who work there and are super paid! Why, then, do we need people if we need those outside associates who are practically holding everything in our hands and doing what they think is right? Why am I saying this? Of course, this agency received – just a little – 340 thousand 034.35 euros for this work. And now we are saying that this whole organization and everything that has been done has been very badly carried out and so on. What is unacceptable here is that in 2017 this agency received 181 thousand 299,65 euros and in 2018 158 thousand 723,70 euros on its own account. Thus, the Agency, which has not done its work, has paid this amount in full. And now look at what is absolutely unacceptable to me – I think that a number of Members here will have to turn their ears when they also hear this information – a thousand 683 hours have been charged for guidance and a thousand 304.75 hours for communication. The watch, when you add these two digits up, you divide by 2 thousand 987,75 hours, you get that one hour was valued at 113 euros. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if Mr President of the Government takes this document into his own hands and reads it, not only must he get confused, but he must immediately suspend it. Because this matter really doesn't hold any real judgment. That you could imagine that, let's just say 210 days after 8 hours were spent running. 210 days full 210 days for 8 hours. For communication, 163 days paid after 8 hours for 113 euros per hour. I think it's really out of line. Here the National Assembly and Members and Members of Parliament really can no longer look at this matter from the side and defend Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, who was the one who ran the Ministry at that time! Dear colleagues and colleagues on SD, did you look at that? Do you have this contract? Have you read it?Oh, my God! Have you ever wondered? For one such project a thousand 683 hours for guidance and a thousand 304 hours for communication! Do you even know what that means? It's a direct joke from us! Direct jesting from taxpayers' resources, from that poor nation that has to pay for it! And dear colleagues, I'll show you something else. When she joined the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Anja Kopač Dark, 420 thousand 341 Euros were used only for accession. See, here I'm showing a document, look, until that moment, it's 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, no cooperation with Accession, but when she took this story into the hands of Mrs Anja Copač, you have 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 half million euros for the Accession agency! Now you tell me if this is normal! Does that seem normal to you? Take this together, and I came up with one calculation – for 2016, 2017 and 2018 it was common for such and different cooperation with these agencies spent 726 thousand 590.71 euros. And if that's normal, for God's sake, then I don't know what's going on in this world. And that means a thousand 210 minimum wages or a thousand 453 500 euro pensions! Someone used it just to make some stories in the background and to mix, I'm sure of that. I don't think this is a joke anymore. Here everyone who looks at this data, thinks about it, realizes that something must be going on in the background! How could one access agency get that kind of money and the other I was talking about, and I'm not going to repeat it again, that's A.T. Kearney, 340 thousand euros for one such project?Oh, my God! So, there's something in the background that stinks. And let someone say what they want, it's probably not in this House that I'm hoping to say is not true right now. Therefore, Madam Minister, I will ask you some questions that you may not be able to answer today, but I expect within a month, as is the time limit for answering written questions. I'll ask you questions and I want an answer to them. First, what was specifically done for this money? In particular, what was done for this money. Secondly: Was the Minister satisfied with the direction and management of this project by A. T. Kearney, despite the disaster? Thirdly, with what reference has A. T. Kearney been selected, was there an invitation to tender and several tenderers applied and can you ensure that the tender was not tailored to a specific tenderer? And the fourth time: what is the cost of the entire project to this point? We're talking about reorganising social work centres. Dear colleagues and colleagues, why did I say in the position of the Group that Mrs Anja Kopač Dark must take responsibility for this not only politically but also materially? And I am sure that Mr Sarec, when he composed this government, was familiar with a wide range of stories about this, especially about the functioning of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. He was well aware, and I just can't understand that he put such a man in his office. Then the question is clearly raised here whether it is only that this coalition retains the government at all costs, regardless of what people have to pay for it. And if nothing happens, it is said that if Anje Kopač Dark does not resolve, then we all understand what the objectives of this coalition and this government are. This is what I think we should be worried about together, and the super-coalic Levican and all the others who are in the coalition. I think there are enough documents and arguments to finally find that action is needed. And, of course, Madam Minister, I also expect a revision of this procedure. A revision of this procedure, really all the way to those peaks and so on, because, if not otherwise – if those authorities that should have responded to these things have not been informed by now, I think they have heard this debate in the National Assembly today, or else I will act on that path as I think it is possible. This case has to get an epilogue because there are so many in our society. We've already discovered some of them, but I think this is the same one that points to corruption. To corruption in the background of friendships, and so on, because otherwise, you couldn't have imagined it. Not particularly when I showed you this table to see that by 2015 zeros are always, no cooperation, but suddenly such high columns and spending half a million euros for – what? We don't know the effects and we don't see them, at least I don't know them and I don't see them. This is especially because when I talk to directors, professional workers from social work centres, I am reminded that things are still very tense, that it is still extremely difficult to work, that they still have much too much administrative work, even though Mrs Minister said today that some things are going in the right direction, thank God, and that they do not have time to deal with people. That's what shouldn't have happened. This system, this story was made just to get these professionals to focus on people. This must be their primary task, all the time. I don't think he's here in Parliament that wouldn't defend it. They can't become brass workers, they can't become people who are burdened, they can't look at the computer from morning to evening, and they don't know if they put real paper on this pile and so on. That is exactly what was happening in the previous term! New and new bureaucratic burdens on employees of professional workers at the Centre for Social Work. And today someone in SD is telling me how well they did, what they did. Let them go and see if they can go to God alone, and let them hear what people are talking about, what these workers are talking about, what these directors are saying! They're asking us, please, help us because we can't stop. Because with Anja Digač Dark simply couldn't talk! If you said one word that she didn't like, it was immediately counter-reaction, whether you were suspended or put in any other place, and so on, I won't speak at all. This is about some human rights and beyond, and it was the biggest mobile phone, I think, right at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Please, we can defend this today — which one of us can defend it?Oh, my God! What do you say?Oh, my It doesn't matter whose policy the client belongs to. No one in this society should afford it regardless of political affiliation! I don't care if this lady is in any party right now, I'd say the same thing five times now! Because I can't agree with that, because what I showed you today and the numbers I was talking about indicate that something is wrong here. Our money can't be spent like that! You can't spend one agency on a project that doesn't work then, say, 340,000 euros. And you're paying for it in full, and the project doesn't really work! I think I don't understand those logics! [[…]] That doesn't make any sense! If I order someone to put me – I will banalize the matter – the front door into the house, I will first see if this door is beautiful, they are locked, they can be locked, they can be done, and then I will pay him the end, it is one part in advance, and the other part I will pay him after the end. And that would be normal in these matters! Look, money needs to be treated rationally, because we don't have it on cubicles. Of course we have it, so some, those who empty our state treasury, they have it, yes, and it has to be stopped. There are also, of course, these connections in here. These links which are extremely harmful to this country. But it's all at the expense of a poor nation. I said before, with this money, only these 340 thousand, if we had them in the budget, we could split them up, that would be a thousand 210 minimum wages or a thousand 453 pensions per 500 euros. Imagine how much it would be if we subsidized food in childhood or primary school. What could we do with it, and we waste it and throw it out the windows! I now publicly announce today that I will demand from all ministries, for the duration of the last government, all the same information that I have here today for this ministry. Let's see where the money went and how much money was spent on that, I'll say, unproductive things and some connections. I'm sure there's money in this money, somewhere hidden for the election campaign, my personal assessment, including SD and a lot more. Maybe some sort of thing will come out in public because now slowly you see, we hear about Fatur, we hear about not knowing everything and all those who hide say how honest they are, how absolutely oh and all. I think one day the truth will come. Even this coalition, I don't mind if you've decided to lead this country, I just want you to lead it in line with what you said here, when you stepped into the National Assembly, and we Members and ministers and all those who had to sign certain things, and to work for the nation, for the people. That's what they were here for. That's what they were chosen for. This responsibility is the responsibility of all of us sitting here, regardless of who is in the opposition or coalition. But you know who's responsible. However, the person must be responsible for his actions, and that is why Anja Kopač Dark is today the one who will have to take responsibility for what has happened, for the fact that six months people have not been given decisions and so on and so on, that I will not speak. The rag, I heard today that it was supposed to work, although according to my information, it's not exactly true because it's not compatible with the CSD program. People, if you ask the director and so on, they will tell you that they have outdated computers, that technology, and other techniques are obsolete and so on, that it's extremely difficult to do this now because they don't have enough quality, it's called the basis. The Minister knows that very well. I know he knows. But it is true that he saves what can be done under certain circumstances. But this should be all pre-arranged before this track comes into that stage when we can tell him to get into life. All of this should be done. Then they'd say the work was done as it should have been, legally. And the day after that, you could say, yes, Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, congratulations, you have carried out your case with excellence, but not only in pianism, so that you can win a number of votes in the elections. What the gentleman is doing back there -- because right now I think he's sick -- said it's not like that. [[…]] I think he's too young, and he's going to have to sit in the National Assembly for a few more mandates to know what politics is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Reploko was reported by Mr. Prednik. I warn you, you have extremely little time available. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u70	Dear colleague! All funds have been legitimately and legally used and are also publicly available and the project has been implemented and is operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and the proposer will be given the floor. Only the applicant entered the floor. Here you go, Mr. Siter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. In conclusion, thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, for this creative contribution to the debate. There was some fire, but it's not necessarily a bad thing. As far as reorganisation is concerned, I will agree with the Minister when he says that we will see its actual impact over time, assess when it will take some time, especially – and here I will also sign – with information from the field in the field of IT or the system of Krpan, about which they also say at social work centres, let's give him time to see how he gets in. Nevertheless, I remain critical, because if according to your data the most human resources-enhanced centre in the Rippers, which you said is 92% human resources completed, yet on the ground reports, poorer assessment of the reorganisation, I will remain skeptical and critical to some visible results within the time frame you have proposed. My message from the proponent or initiator of this debate – I congratulate the ministers in the main on their courage, not on the pink side, or on those sides of the meadow, on the bed from the roses, but on one big chaos, as has been evident from today's debate, so I hope that we will only be Members and Members, especially those on the committee of work, if not otherwise, try to participate in the future creatively in solving the challenges you will face. Our goal or the goal of the whole country is to give social workers and workers the opportunity to be what they are, to develop their expertise and to develop the institution in which they operate, that is, the centre for social work. Only if we participate in this creative process will we strive to create a social state, or as Comrade Koražija mentioned in his intervention, in a system that divides wealth fairly among all who contribute to its creation, including those who are unable or unable to do so, including those who are socially weak. Thank you once again very much to all colleagues and colleagues for the debate and to the Minister for a happy path in solving this chaos.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Siter. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask you whether you wish to discuss it further under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because, yes, I should just read the warning that if you would like to discuss the proposaler and the Minister, Mrs Mag. Ksenia Klampfer, please also log in by pressing the microphone key. In this case, they will get the word as the last, first the Minister and then the proposer. Now we're opening applications. One panellist has been notified, Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u74	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and also her coworkers, you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I would not have applied for the word because I had been declared, but simply because of some other obligations I could not have come to the debate when I was on my turn. But I will start by saying that we Slovenians are somehow in this matter to the refugees – or not. We mostly like to criticize our predecessors when our craftsmen come, and they criticize us, and this chain drags from one generation to another. At the outset, I must say that I have had quite a few direct meetings with Minister Kopačeva, including with regard to interpolation, around the centres for social work, and we have had quite a bit of a heated debate and inter-coasial coordination. I did not agree with this reorganisation of social work centres, but in the end, as a member of the coalition, I pressed the key for. I'll tell you later, which is why I just didn't support it. You know, I'm not just in the world for two decades or three, but something more, and I got some more information at the time. The legal definition of the report of the centres says – here I am referring to regional centres and also units in administrative units – that every three years we should get a report from them, and I expect that we will get one. It has been 50 years since the first centres in Slovenia were established. I must say that this area has been staffed and there is a talk that in this area we need more people to compare with the countries of the European Union, much less to say that there are 100,000 workers per 100,000 people, as someone has said before, a thousand 851 on average in this area, and in Slovenia there are a total of 2 million 900 workers in this area. You know, social work centers have been operating significantly differently. Today people are dealing with bureaucracy, this problem, instead of actually doing what they're set up to do. Why didn't I support such a reorganisation? You know, now we have 15, 16 or how many of these landscape, regional, or whatever we call them, social work centers, maybe in the future someone will invent, literally, we'll have just one center for the whole of Slovenia. I think that people who work at social work centres, experts in this field, should be as close as possible to the people on the ground as possible. Since they have so much bureaucratic work, they simply deal with bureaucracy. And what else is the key? We have now in a way allowed these centres to reorganize themselves as they did. This is not the only thing in Slovenia, which has moved from local communities to some regional centres and is then possible to move to the state level. No centralization is good. Look, this has happened to us with the taxation, it's kind of happening to administrative units, and it's kind of happening to us with the courts. After all, in local environments we will have simple and simple only those people who are locally bound and of course do not operate within national authorities or public administrations. The public administration will be more or less in Ljubljana and in these regional centres. As a result, I had the biggest problem supporting the reorganisation of social work centres in Slovenia in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Yours was the last one. This concludes the debate. I also conclude this item on the agenda. Dear Members, we are moving on to 6. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Branet Golubovic. The bill is at the fifth session of the 13th session. 2. 2019 treated the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have the floor, Mr Zvonko Černač, Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! Five members of the Sharčé Coalition have tabled an amendment to the Government Act in order to expand the political bureaucrat government apparatus. On behalf of the motioners, Member Robert Pavšič presented to the Home Committee the reasons why the Government's service for Slovenians should be extended in place and around the world, as well as the development and cohesion service, with two new State Secretarys or Deputy Ministers. In the first case, it was said that the reason for the new Deputy Ministers was to strengthen the return of citizens who had left Slovenia. However, in the case of the Development and Cohesion Service, a poor use of European funds was highlighted as the main reason for the new political bureaucrat power to compensate or accelerate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we rejected this amendment's proposals because, apart from the increase in the political bureaucrat part of the state apparatus and the increase in the costs for taxpayers that would have been incurred, this novelty would not have meant any added, new value. With regard to the first case, Slovenians in place and around the world, our citizens who have gone to the world, because they have no longer seen their perspective in Slovenia, cannot regain any additional political bureaucratic power. People would gladly stay in our country and create or return here if they had normal conditions for education, work and life if they had adequate employment, if they had a normal salary, if they had a favourable tax environment, normal access to health services, adequate housing, and so on. In the second case, when it comes to the development and cohesion service, the new political bureaucrat accommodation should accelerate the absorption of European funds. If European funds have not been used successfully, this requires the exercise of responsibility, not the award with the additional Secretary of State. So, someone else would be rewarded by increasing the machine to do what should already be done. The wrong approach, the wrong policy, which we do not support in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is why it is right that this amendment of the law has already received a red light on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Blaž Pavlin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u78	Dear President, honourable fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia, it has become a constant practice to propose a new organisational structure for the government, each time a new government or its president. This is understandable to some extent because each government organizes its own work. Today's situation is a little different. The increase in the number of State secretaries was not proposed by the government itself, but by a group of members of the ruling coalition, members of the LMŠ or, in other words, a party of the Prime Minister of the Government. In fact, it doesn't matter who the formal proponent is, because it's the same interests. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that there is no valid reason for today's amendment of both laws, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on State Administration. All the ministries that are expected to receive additional secretaries of state, some of them two, already have secretaries of state. Let's see. In addition to the two State secretaries, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology would have two more. Let me remind you that the Ministry of Economy already has two State secretaries, one of whom could care for a small economy. We Christian Democrats are advocates of a small economy and craftsmen, and we are still aware that the country must provide them with a good business environment. If we want to remove all bureaucratic obstacles and introduce measures to relieve small economies and craftsmen, we should address their demands as a whole. If only the Secretary of State for the Small Economy were to be decided, Members of New Slovenia would certainly support such a proposal. Nor do the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians, in place and worldwide, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Development and European Cohesion Policy need new State secretaries, since they already have one each. It is true that, in general, in the area of European funding drawback, we cannot commend ourselves for our success, but an additional official will not solve this problem, he would be saved by the continued continuity of his work and by the good staffing of European cohesion policy across different ministries, and by better and regular coordination of their work. Let us point out that such changes in laws bring no added value and do not solve the accumulated problems in government services. Hypothetically, all ministries could have five or more secretaries of state, and these problems could not have been solved without additional substantive and internal organisational measures. The fact is that all State secretaries are political officials, who are not necessarily experts in certain areas, such as directors of Directorates. In 2002, the Law on State Administration established such a distinction. The same law had already brought a significant shift from the system regulation of the number of State secretaries in 2014, when it stipulated that the Ministry of Finance could have four of them instead of the two then state secretaries. Today we really don't need new exceptions to system regulation. In our view, the problems of the functioning of the state administration are being addressed at the wrong end. Fortunately, this has also been recognised by some Members who have not supported the proposal to amend both laws on the labour market. In New Slovenia, too, we were both legally opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Administration in the context of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Branet Golubovic. The bill is at the fifth session of the 13th session. 2. 2019 treated the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the floor, Mrs Nataša Sukič, Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In Levica, we are opposed to the two proposed laws, the main purpose of which is to increase the number of State secretaries in certain ministries. Why? Because they're simply absurd. Firstly, it is absurd that an increase in the number of State secretaries in ministries is proposed by Members and not by the Government. The government usually expresses this need when it has this need. Secondly, it is absurd that the increase is justified by the need for additional professional staff, but several State secretaries are proposed, and more political personnel are said. If there is indeed a lack of professional staff, I believe that we would propose an increase in the number of officials, perhaps a new Directorate, a new job, and certainly not an additional political staff. Thirdly, it is absurd to propose two new State Secretarys at the Ministry of Health, where one secretarial post has been vacant since the beginning of the mandate. Should we conclude, then, that these cities will be unoccupied after all? This is indeed an intermediate issue in this case. Comments that these two additional secretaries of state will help reduce waiting lines and are, to put it mildly, truly bizarre, attracted to hair. As are the bizarre indications, of course, that the six new State secretaries for the budget do not have any concrete financial implications. Of course, six new secretaries of state have very specific financial implications. The salary of the Secretary of State without all the allowances, transportation and lunches is EUR 4 000 283 gross, it is said that six state secretaries are worth about a million and a half euros per mandate. Only a little bit of what was said in the proposals and what was heard on the committee made any sense, but even less said was really convincing. In our view, the proposal is neither appropriate nor justified. In fact, it is not so much a desire to carry out tasks more professionally and efficiently, but, in the first place, it is obvious to solve coalition human resources problems. It is nothing more than comforting rewards for those who have lost a parliamentary or ministerial chair or for some of the old political debts. Of course, because of all the above, we have strongly and firmly opposed the proposals of the laws, and we are also pleased that some other parliamentary groups or their Members have joined our criticisms and our views and that the proposed proposals for laws have not been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Ambassador, the counter is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u82	President, thank you for your word. According to the assessment of the situation, the current Law on State Administration provides for a number of State secretaries to be allowed at individual ministries. This allows for the appointment of a maximum of two State Secretaries in ministries and four State Secretaries in the Ministry responsible for Finance to be appointed because of the scale and complexity of the work area. In the Republic of Slovenia, as we know, we currently have 14 ministers. The proposer or coalition assesses that the current composition of the government is appropriate, but because of the scale and complexity of the work areas of some departments and in order to establish smooth operation and perform their tasks, it makes sense to increase the number of State secretaries in three departments. They therefore propose that two additional State secretaries be given to the Ministry of Health in order to establish a more effective functioning. As we know, there is only one job already in place and now we would like two more. That's really funny. One State Secretary is expected to receive an additional Ministry responsible for education, science and sport and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. I don't know why the Secretary-General is not being proposed just for a small economy, what we need right now. But it is not only the employment of three state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues, that at least three more people will have to be employed by each State Secretary. The draft law has indirect financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. The fact is that financial resources are needed for the operational implementation of the personal reorganisation at the above ministries. With the proposed first paragraph of Article 17, where the number of State secretaries is changing, the latter is based on ministries responsible for health, education and sport, economic development. As we know, the Law on State Administration of 2002 provided for the appointment of a maximum of one State Secretary, even no one, to the Ministry. With the introduction of the 2012 amendment, the number of State secretaries increased to two and the number of ministerial areas decreased. The Ministry of Health raises the issue of an additional number of professional staff due to the scale and complexity of the tasks. I would really like to know whether this is an inadequate explanation or whether the proposal for a law means a further departure from the concept of the Basic Law on State Administration, where the Secretary of State performs a political function, while the professional work of the ministries is carried out by the Directors-General. I also believe that if the concept of the Law on State Administration is inadequate or exceeded, it can be changed. We agree, however, that the second and third sentences of the amended first paragraph of Article 17 of the Law should be improved verbally. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we will not support this law on State administration, because we believe that it needs to be completely changed, but not with novels, when some government ever answers something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Zvonko Černač on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u84	Once again a nice greeting to all present! This novel, a novel of the Law on State Administration, has also been tabled by the Sharčé Coalition's parliamentary groups. This novel, as has been said, is intended to extend the political bureaucrat apparatus to individual ministries, where instead of having three or even four state secretaries or deputy ministers. In this case, too, the applicants failed to present any argument for this political bureaucratic enlargement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always been against unnecessary bureaucracy, against unnecessary enlargement of the administrative apparatus. The country must be in the service of the people, and the government must ensure that the government is thin and efficient. In 2012, Janša's second government began the process of debirokratisation and increasing the efficiency of the state administration. The number of ministries has been reduced by a third, from 18 to 12, the process of reducing parastatal institutions, funds, agencies has begun. Unfortunately, the policies of the following governments have changed, and today, unfortunately, there is nothing different. Since this is a wrong approach and a wrong policy that does not lead to better efficiency of the public administration and the public sector as a whole, it is also right that this novel has received a red light on the home committee. In the debate on the parental committee, however, Mr Branko Meh, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, highlighted the expectations of the small economy that he would obtain, as he said, the Secretary of State, who would be responsible for the small economy. Although the new law did not talk about this, it does not provide for areas of work of State secretaries. They are appointed by the Minister or Government. Mr Meh also highlighted in the debate the pre-election promises in which we assured all political parties, with the exception of the Left, that we would give special attention to the small economy by also appointing the Secretary of State or even the Minister for this area. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the expectations of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry are well founded and supported, and there is no need to amend the law to implement them. For this reason, I addressed today to Minister Restovalska a written initiative in which I reminded him of the pre-election promises made by his party before the elections and invited him to appoint the Secretary of State for the Small Economy, which there is no obstacle and there is no need to amend the law. I expect that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. With this, honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups and, in accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure in the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a decision to establish a world for electronic communications. The draft decree was tabled by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to further explain the motion for a decision. Mr. Belly Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u86	Given that this is a formal matter, allow me just a few words. The Law on Electronic Communications in Article 229 defines the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia as the body for advice in the direction of the development of electronic communications and in the protection of consumer interests in the field of electronic communications established by the National Assembly. The Council for Electronic Communications was established under the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications, adopted by the National Assembly in 2010. The most recent amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications in Article 34, paragraph 256, provides that, as from the date of the entry into force of the law, this decree shall cease to apply and shall apply until a new decree is issued. The decree follows the provisions of the previous decree by supplementing that the current members of the Electronic Communications Council continue to work until their term of office, as provided for in Article 253 of the Law on Electronic Communications. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered and adopted a proposal for a decree and forwarded it to the National Assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. The application was submitted by the Slovenian National Party on behalf of which Mr Dušan Šiško will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u88	President, thank you. Dear colleagues, my friend! As much time as we have left before the end of today Under Article 229 of the Law on Electronic Communications, which is quite extensive, and Article 108(3) and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly adopted this Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] The Council is defined as a body for advice in the direction of the development of electronic communications and in the protection of consumer interests in the field of communication in the Republic of Slovenia. The Council's tasks are to provide opinions, recommendations and proposals on matters relating to electronic communications, including consumer protection, disabled persons and users with specific social needs in this area. The Council shall consist of 11 members and 4 members shall be appointed from representatives of consumer organisations, representative disabled organisations and 7 from different experts in electronic communications. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 112 also provide that the National Assembly shall decide on elections, appointments and discharges by decision. Members of the Council shall also have the right to reimbursement of the costs and monthly prizes to members of the Council and to its President and to the Vice-President, who shall be set at the same level as before. Such a monthly award, proportionate to the amount of work done, shall be for members of a maximum of 235 and shall be aligned with the annual rate of inflation. The President's monthly prize shall be no more than three times and for the Vice-President up to a maximum of two times that amount. But here I find it a bit controversial, because if we decide about someone, then we should agree once and for all and simplify the prices of the institute's councils and their presidents. Let me give you an example of someone who has also been confirmed by the National Assembly receiving €35 per sitting, but here they have 230 plus, Vice-President times 2 and President times 3, so we'll have to talk about it. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia shall provide the means, conditions for the work and information of the Council. Supervision of the legality, purpose, efficient and efficient use of the Agency’s resources shall be carried out by the Court of Auditors. The end of the term of office of the current members of the Council is also determined, i.e. by the end of the period for which they have been appointed for a term of office of 5 years. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Proposal for a Decision establishing an Electronic Communications Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-07-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have also concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate, where we both have our cancellations. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate and I am interested, Mr. Zvonko Černač, if you would like to speak? Thank you. I take it you've all been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to. Since the time set has not yet expired, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss it further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no, and thus conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decree. I take it that the amendments to the proposal are not tabled. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made tomorrow, 8 March 2019, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the fifth session of the National Assembly, which we continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Goodbye!
