ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, nice greeting! I'm about to proceed with the fifth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Jožef Horvat, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Janja Servant from 2.30 p.m., Ferenc Horváth, mag. Andrej Reich from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m., Matjaž Germany until 1 p.m., Jelka Godec, Nada Brinovšek and Anja Bah Žibert. We're moving to 14. Agenda item — Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2019-June 2020 The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc, for an additional explanation. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u2	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Allow me first of all to congratulate all Members, all professional colleagues, all employees of the National Assembly and all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia on their or your holiday. Sometimes we don't know how much we appreciate you, but at least today. Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! In the year when we mark 15 years of Slovenia's membership in the European Union, the Government has prepared for the 12th time a proposal for a declaration on Slovenia's guidelines for operating within the institutions of the European Union. This declaration also arises at a time when Europe is facing major challenges, to appear less tangible than it was years ago during the economic and later migration crisis, but no less important, perhaps even more. Today's challenges in Europe are significantly more defining major changes in the world than changing the geopolitical balance of forces and related security issues, undermining multilateralism, mass migration to the increasingly visible consequences of climate change and technological penetration of new global actors. These external phenomena, which we are not well aware of, require a quick and unified response from the European Union, because even so large Member States are not partial to them. But there is often no such response. Let us be clear, the Union lacks determination, mutual trust and respect for the agreed will for compromise decisions for the common good. Above all, there is a lack of awareness that we are living in one of the most peaceful, developed and human-friendly parts of this planet, where values, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and solidarity are recognised, although these are unfortunately increasingly subject to different interpretations, leading to a fragmentation of the European space on the wings of populism and nationalism. I want to believe that we have learned something from past crises. Indeed, the lesson of brexit, the painful and many senseless withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union has strengthened the unity of the seven-and-twenty countries, who are once again more aware of the importance and future of the European Union. However, before this year's European elections, we cannot get rid of the feeling that those who want less Europe can gain more power. False prophets who do not seek a better and safer Europe, who do not want progress, closer cooperation and mobility of young people across Europe, but want us to return from their short-sighted interests to the turbulent times of the previous century. Brexit is one of those things. Your Honor! In the course of a few years of ongoing debate on the future of the European Union, a number of consultations with citizens were organised with us last year. The consultations, which we will continue with this year, have shown that support for the European project, regardless of all crises and shortcomings, is solid. This encourages us, and as leaders, it commits us to looking for common European solutions to future challenges. Therefore, the declaration before you does not arise as an isolated document. It also refers to the strategic documents and orientations of our country. It highlights four fundamental objectives for Slovenia's operation in the European Union in the period until mid-2020. First, safer Europe and Slovenia. Secondly, a successful economy and sustainable environmental care. Thirdly, the enhanced social dimension of the future European Union. Fourth time, a stronger European Union at the world stage. The security dimension concerns many areas of life. Many security challenges have been facing us for a long time, and cyber attacks and information attacks and false news that have an impact on critical infrastructure, on the views of society and on our thinking can affect the deterioration of national security. Therefore, Slovenia will continue its efforts to strengthen all forms and types of national and European capacities in providing heterogeneous security threats and risks, with particular emphasis on ensuring cyber or information security. The key objective of maintaining the mobility union as citizens wish is also to return to the full functioning of the Schengen area without internal border controls. It is necessary to strengthen the protection of the EU's external borders, the fight against traffickers and traffickers and to establish an effective return system and an asylum system that will also work in times of crisis. We will continue to work towards a common response and Union policies for the effective and humane management of migration, with an essential integration of migration into other Union policies such as development and humanitarian assistance. A fundamental guide to our conduct will be to strike a balance between the principles of security and solidarity. Another strategic objective, a successful economy and sustainable growth for the environment requires balanced economic, social and environmental development, which takes into account today's climate challenges. Slovenia remains committed to sustainable growth, developing the European Union's single market, caring for small and medium-sized enterprises and a well-functioning economic and monetary union. It also supports the creation of a stronger and better functioning digital single market, including the implementation of the Digital Common Market Strategy. Our aim is to make Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, an important player in the global economy and to further strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and the country as a whole in the ongoing digital transformation process or so-called fourth industrial revolution, thereby providing our citizens with jobs, economic growth and prosperity. The aim of strengthening the social dimension at European Union level is a newer date, as social policy is traditionally within the competence of the Member States. The social model adopted at the end of 2017 is certainly also a response to the expectations of citizens of the European Union who want more unification in this area. The future Union, however, should strengthen the role of social partners, promote equality between women and men, and rights and equal opportunities for all, regardless of the diversity of national systems through joint action. It is also intended to find answers to how to fight unemployment, discrimination, social exclusion and poverty more effectively. In this context, special concern should be given to young people in the field of education and training and integration into the labour market. In dynamic and often unpredictable world conditions, it is becoming increasingly clear how important it is to strengthen the role of the European Union at the world stage. The leadership of the European Union's common external action remains a global strategy for the European Union's external and security policy. Slovenia will pay particular attention to defending the preservation and strengthening of multilateral cooperation and the importance of respecting an international regime based on international law and in which the Organization of the United Nations must have a central place. Also within the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, we will pay particular attention to the Western Balkans region, support the reform progress of the countries of the region in bringing the European Union closer together and underline the importance of a credible European Union response with the criteria of progress being met. In the wider neighbourhood and the world, Slovenia will focus on preventive action, the search for peaceful solutions, respect for international humanitarian law and international human rights law, and will focus on a more active European Union approach to resolving long-term crises and conflicts. The fact is that the paradigm of cooperation with third countries from which migration originates needs to be changed. It is not only development aid, but cooperation must become more strategic and equal. We will also actively participate in the process of further strengthening the European Union's common security and defence policy. With regard to the common trade policy, we support open and fair international trade based on the rules and standards of the European Union, while continuing to commit ourselves to the multilateral trading system with the central role of the World Trade Organisation. In the months ahead, we look forward to intensifying negotiations on the future multiannual financial framework of the European Union. With this important dossier drawing up the policies of the European Union over the next seven years, we want a rapid and ambitious agreement that would send a strong message that the Union is very serious about its plans for the future. In doing so, we must be so wise as to provide, on the one hand, resources for the new challenges we are facing, while maintaining a reasonable level of resources for both cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. It is known that our insistence that the sudden drastic fall in resources allocated to countries and regions is economically unsustainable and therefore unacceptable. Your Honor! There has also been a lot of talk in the last period about Slovenia's role in the European Union. I think we need to be realistic about this. Slovenia, with two million people, is not one of the great members of the European Union, but we, however, as a full-fledged member of the European Union, have a voice to be considered with. Clear guidance, principled action and a high level of professionalism are key. We must act in a coherent and consistent manner towards a stronger and more effective European Union that appreciates its achievements and respects the values and principles on which it was based. A recognised European economist said in an interview last December for a famous Slovenian newspaper: "I have no Slovenia for a peripheral country. For me, it's pretty solid in the core of the euro. Otherwise only Slovenians think you are a peripheral country, which is quite amazing.” End of story. I mention the latter because we Slovenians are often too self-critical about our situation in Europe. We lack objectivity and confidence that, despite some shortcomings, we are a developed and regulated country to which we can be proud, and that small countries can also leave an important mark if they are aware of their values and potential. The latter was also allowed to lead us in the light of preparations for the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021. Experience shows that this is a challenging and responsible task that we have undertaken with all seriousness. Preparations at different levels are already in progress. Here is also the role of the National Assembly, which will also be regularly reported to by the Government. On this basis, I am confident that the second Slovenian Presidency will be prepared in such a way that it will not only be considered successful, but will actually contribute to the greater visibility and aspirations of Slovenia in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy shall be responsible. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy has identified a further report to the amendment tabled by the Group of Ambassadors to the supplementary proposal for a declaration and, in addition to the report with the supplementary proposal for a declaration. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Milan Brglez, Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr President, President of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The European Union Affairs Committee considered the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2019-June 2020 at its 30th meeting on 15 February 2019 as a competent committee. Within a set time limit, amendments to the proposal for a declaration were tabled by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space – two amendments, and by Mr Matej Tašner Vatovec – 11 amendments. Five proposals were tabled at the meeting of the Committee for amendments tabled jointly by the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB. As the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said at the meeting, the Government has taken into account the work programme of the European Commission for 2019, the 18-month programme of the trio of the Presidency and the Rome statement of the Heads of State or Institution of the EU. The proposal for a declaration as a priority highlights the European elections 2019 and institutional changes, the debate on the future of the EU and consultation with citizens, the negotiations on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the EU, the preparation of the multi-annual financial framework after 2020, preparations for the presidency of Slovenia by the Council of the EU in the second half of 2021, the security of Europe and Slovenia, the successful economy and sustainable environmental care, the social dimension of the future EU and the strengthening of the role of the EU at the global stage. Before the discussion, the rapporteurs presented their views to the four of the seven working groups put forward for consideration by the proposal and to the President of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs of the Council. Both the native working bodies of the National Assembly and the Commission of the Council of State support the proposal for a declaration. In the debate on the proposal for a declaration, the members of the Committee highlighted the fact that the next declaration would include the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the EU, so that if the original positions of the Republic of Slovenia were changed during the negotiations and the relevant information on the legislative procedure in the EU institutions, the proposal for the implementation of the subsidiarity and proportionality tests prior to the adoption of the official government proposals for views on legislative acts, the need to present measures to raise electoral participation in the European elections and the issue of positions on the reduction of resources for the common agricultural policy, the eurovignette system and the inclusion of views on the re-use of purified waters. The meeting was followed by a debate and a vote on the amendments tabled. The EU Affairs Committee has not adopted nine amendments to the Committee's amendment by Mr Mate Tashner Vatovec and one amendment from the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB. The EU Affairs Committee, however, adopted both amendments to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, two amendments by Ambassador Mate Tashner Vatovec and four amendments to the Committee. The amendments adopted are included in the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Following the debate and the vote on the amendments, the EU Affairs Committee voted on all parts of the proposal for a declaration from the point of view of the Committee's competence and confirmed it by 13 votes to none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Committee on Foreign Policy informed the assembly in writing. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word mag. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u6	Your Honor! I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! The European Union has not been a European Union since yesterday. The European Union's project is a magnificent project that has been under way for decades. It began essentially in 1951 with the signing of a charter establishing the European Coal and Steel Community. Modern, united Europe is the product of the whole generation of cooperation. The European Union and everything that we normally understand is called free movement of people, capital, is certainly in Slovenian interest. Slovenia is an exporter, 70% of trade or even more within the European Union. All of this needs to be taken into account when we decide on matters related to the European Union. And remember that we have joined the European Union on the basis of a plebiscite decision, a referendum decision, and this with a very high level of consensus expressed by the people at this referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe as we have included it is disappearing before our eyes. Today, Europe is ahead of the challenges that modern united Europe's fathers, based on values, probably could not have imagined decades ago even in the most moral dream. Today, Europe falls on three key points. The first is that Europe does not defend its external borders or defend the safety of its citizens and citizens as you deserve. There is an old saying that there is only that international community and that country that defends its external borders and defends them consistently. Europe does not do that. The reasons for this are mainly of a political nature. Europe has the means to do so all the time, but it is not political will. Does this fundamental challenge, which has already led to changes in Europe, to changes in European policy, to such major shifts as have not occurred in all decades, respond to the appropriate act before you? I'm sure you don't. Europe's problem is also that some fundamental rights are under threat. I put first and foremost the threat to the right to freedom of speech, to freedom of expression. This is a problem that will certainly be, even if you have accompanied the next speech of the proposal for a minister, which we are likely to decide on today, this is certainly a problem that is increasingly being raised in Slovenia. Where are those words of my father's modern united Europe that they said: "I may not agree with you, I may think your words are too big, too heavy, but I will do everything to give you the right to say it." Today in Europe, unfortunately, the left-wing syntagma prevails, "we will do everything, only that you will not have a chance to say your word anywhere else; but if you do, you will be punished for it." Everyone's talking about hate speech. How many words have you heard about this? Even from the Prime Minister and Europe. But, ladies and gentlemen, hate speech is not even uniformly defined in modern law. Do you know that? Under that, everyone imagines something different. And it's hugely free of judgment and fields, which then constitutes a grave violation of human rights. Anything that could be done in this area would only be allowed to be done on the basis of a legally binding, legally binding decision for that competent court. Not to resort to administrative measures. The temptation that the current government, or Slovenia, will experience in a short time seems to have slipped with it. This is something all the most respected constitutional lawyers warn about. Freedom of speech is a good that is extremely sensitive. Of all the definitions of hate speech is essentially the only one on which there is a relatively high degree of consensus, and it is not yet uniformly defined in legal acts, the fact that it is the speech that promotes hatred, intolerance and then has concrete negative consequences. Watch the "in" is in! Today, in Europe, people in some countries are being tried or given draconian administrative penalties just because they have been spreading documentary footage of Islamic crimes and wrote: this is ISIS, this is Daish. Is the act before you responding to this extremely important challenge? If there is no freedom of speech, democracy is only a farce. I'm afraid I don't answer that. The third problem is the issue of values. Today, the values on which modern united Europe has been founded are no longer respected or are turned to the point that in the end you no longer know what to think. I'm personally joining all the congrats on March 8th, International Women's Day. I'd be more than happy to congratulate a thousand times on my mother's day in a few days. But look, in the light of the madness that controls Europe right now — the madness of false values. It's very easy for me to say congratulations to all women because I know that biologically they are men, women and the end. Now the left has 69 sexes. And how we now have the best of women, happy Queer Day, happy Transgender Day, happy don't know what, happy fourth sex. Then how can you congratulate anyone else if you don't understand? But if not, it's dishonest. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter of fundamental values, because every policy must be based on values. If politics is not based on values, history teaches, then it is fascism, and it is based on false values. For example, in Europe, there is a huge problem — that there are not the same criteria. Crime, ladies and gentlemen, is a crime, and whoever did it is a crime. If someone killed a child, it doesn't matter what ideology he was made of, whether he was in the name of fascism, communism, Nazism, socialism or anything. Crime is a crime. These values, too, are becoming increasingly poor in a modern, united Europe. Even so, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution before you does not answer the question of fundamental values. Surely we are all to respect the rights of minorities, to respect tolerance, but when it comes to the fact that a minority imposes on you their behavior and their mental patterns as the only permissive, it has nothing to do with tolerance, but it is its complete contradiction, and it is intolerance. If this is yet to be sanctioned, then this is a huge problem. Today, children are already subjected to LBTQP ideology in primary schools as something completely natural. This is not natural, ladies and gentlemen. And that's the problem. The problem is that modern Europe does not build on fundamental values, on those values as it once was established. Today, Europe does not need to import millions of illegal migrants or legal migrants, because now the Marrakesh Treaty is trying to legalise all of this, it needs more births, it needs more joy to live, it needs politics as presented by Mr Orban in Hungary and it has already been successfully implemented. That every child born in Europe is also taken as the future of Europe. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the only real future for Europe. A Europe in which every individual who respects all fundamental values will be respected, in which there will be no false values in which every country, every nation, will be respected and there will be no first and second order. Such a Europe has a future. Otherwise, brexit will not only happen once, but it will be repeated in the coming years. And then Europe, as we knew it, will be gone. This resolution does not respond to all of this or even responds in some cases in the wrong way, and we therefore oppose it in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Igor Peček on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In the Marjana Sharca Party, the adoption of a declaration, which includes the guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia, is assessed as an important document, not only for the reason that we have elections to the European Parliament. Even in this light, we feel that we must rid ourselves of the feeling of our littleness, which we sometimes use as a shield or cover against the events that are taking place around us. Of course, everything is not ideal, we are aware of this, but it does not affect our confidence and objectivity in exposing our values. A new composition of the European Commission will be formed. Guidelines for action at European Union level will be all the more crucial due to the growing intolerance and division caused by nationalist and populist movements in recent years. Here I would like to highlight some areas that we think are important and for which we support the efforts of the Republic of Slovenia to find common solutions. We must strive for sustainable development, a development that will contribute to the development of the whole economy, taking into account two key policies: social and environmental. The European Union has already proven to be strong and united in trade policy. We must strive for a unified and common solution to all global issues. Here we focus on migration, tax evasion, cyber attacks and terrorism. The budget for the period 2021-2027 will also be important for the European Union, which will be based on rapid response and effective policy implementation. We support the European Commission's efforts to reach agreement as soon as possible, as well as the efforts of the Republic of Slovenia to maintain the highest possible level of funding for cohesion and common agricultural policy. In cohesion policy, we especially point out that rural development funds are too low. Increasing uncertainty continues to bring the United Kingdom out of the European Union. The consequences of this act await us. In this part, we think of the Slovenians who live in the UK as well as the future position of Slovenian companies. It will therefore be essential for the future relationship with the United Kingdom to be governed by citizens' rights and cooperation in the field of the economy. The European Union has already demonstrated in the past that it is capable of working together and in the interests of citizens. Many legislative proposals have already been adopted in the field of the environment, which seek to implement the commitments of the Paris Agreement. This work in the field of the environment just proves that Member States can solve the current problems together. Member States will have the opportunity to cooperate in the fields of education, youth, culture and sport. And it is this cooperation that can help to share positive experiences between the countries themselves as well as between citizens. In recent elections to the European Parliament, we have witnessed the low participation of citizens. For this reason, it seems important that we continue to advocate greater involvement of citizens in policy-making at European Union level, in particular of young people. We live in an orderly and secure community, which we sometimes fail to realize. From the point of view of the common foreign and security policy, respect for human rights will be important in all areas. We also advocate the cooperation of the European Union with other international and regional organisations; we must insist on maintaining dialogue with the United States and Russia and working with the countries and regions of Africa, Asia and Latin America. To create stability, peace and security in the Western Balkans region, we will continue to support the country's efforts towards European integration. We must also be aware of the importance of helping this region to face migration pressures. These are one of the problems currently facing the European Union. In the past, it has also faced and survived the economic crisis. From the community established to preserve peace, we have moved on to an economic and further political community where we have the opportunity to resolve the current themes together. Regardless of the different interests of the Member States, we are convinced that we are able to find solutions that will contribute to a single and strong European Union. During the period in which we are and in which we will be in the future, the greatest challenge for the Member States will be efficiency and tolerance. We believe that this declaration represents the guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia, which also includes its values and interests, and therefore we support its adoption in the Party of the List of Marjan Šarc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Milan Brglez, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respected and respected! The proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of our country in the institutions of the European Union for the next 18-month period shall be adopted by the National Assembly following the procedure already established in accordance with the Cooperation Act between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. It is a practice for the basic text to be prepared by the Government in inter-resortmental coordination, and then a complex procedure for dealing with individual parts of the text in the working bodies which discuss it from the point of view of their competences. Finally, the discussion and adoption of the text of the declaration at the plenary session of the National Assembly, which is one of the rare occasions when the attention of all Members and Members is focused on the content of the European Union's activities. We remind the Social Democrats that the proposal for a declaration for the period January 2019-June 2020 does not, however, exist and must not be a routine item of the agenda. We accept it at a time when 15 years have passed since Slovenia's accession to the European Union, and at the same time during a period of major challenges for the future of the Union. In the coming period, the basis for action in the European institutions will also be the European Commission's work programme, which has a decisive impact on the agenda with its legislative proposals, and thus on the lives of people and the direction of further development of the community. The current situation in the European Union and the major common challenges on which we are unable to find an effective common and European values for a coherent response show that the fates of the European Union as a fundamental civilizational achievement cannot be left to European bureaucracy. It is also unacceptable that the biggest and most powerful members of the European Union would have a decisive impact or that the European Union should develop towards creating conditions and rules that benefit the market and capital interests instead of people. The Republic of Slovenia will chair the Council of the European Union for the second time in the second half of 2021, which means that it will take over the special right and responsibility to co-create the agenda and current political priorities of the Union. It is therefore crucial for the Social Democrats that the Republic of Slovenia, in the institutions of the European Union in particular in the coming period, operates in accordance with national priorities for the development of the European Union and Slovenia within it. For this reason, we welcome the full debate on the Committee on European Union Affairs and the compromise proposals of the amendments to the individual chapters of the declaration that complemented the text of the government proposal. The declaration we accept today is not the last act of the National Assembly. The National Assembly must bear its share of responsibility for its content and its implementation. Criticism, or self - criticism, is essential here. In the Group of Social Democrats, even when a declaration is adopted, we cannot get rid of the feeling that there is often a lack of interest in the European Union's affairs at the stage of their adoption. The negative consequences of this kind of passiveity are, if not previously, typically reflected in the phase of the transposition of European legislation into our legal order. We will complement the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union and at the same time encourage the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to include the National Assembly as soon as possible and to the maximum extent possible in the process of developing the substantive priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The actual equality of all, genders, peoples and countries in the European Union, should not only be our common goal and commitment today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Gregor Perič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! The proposal for a declaration, already in line with the 12th row, outlines the fundamental views of the Republic of Slovenia during a period of important decisions that will in many ways define the future of the European Union. There are many changes at EU level that will have a strong impact on the development of Slovenia and the Union as a whole, so this moment is suitable for looking back and assessing the impact of previous declarations and achievements of Slovenia. At the same time, it is a good opportunity to look at the common European future and the situation of Slovenia in the European Union. The proposal for declarations, as it has always been, has highlighted the priorities and key political orientations. These guidelines will be followed by Slovenia in its operation in the EU institutions for the next 18 months. We are pleased to note that the recent involvement of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions and working bodies of the European Union has been much more active and successful in representing Slovenia and its interests than in the past. The proposal for a declaration, according to our assessment, provides a good basis for the continued functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the Union and a solid framework for adopting positions on the topics addressed in the European Union, while at the same time identifying current challenges and including the guidance of the Republic of Slovenia in the search for solutions. We note that some of the tasks set out in the previous July 2017–December 2018 declaration remain unfinished and will need to be addressed in the new declaration. At the level of the European Union, there are currently some old trials, but also a number of new challenges, including migration and economic problems, the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, the growing threats to peace and order within Europe and the growing instability in the European neighbourhood. These challenges represent one of the most difficult tests for the development and strength of the Union and its future existence. But let us not forget that the greatest problems and challenges, as has been shown several times in the history of the Union, can also be an excellent opportunity for the necessary movements and a new impetus. In this context, Slovenia is also directly and indirectly under trial as one of its core Member States. We must be aware that these challenges cannot be successfully addressed by any Member State alone, but only in close cooperation with all EU members in the search for common European solutions. In doing so, the SMC Group notes that the new proposal for a declaration responds to these challenges and to the changed circumstances that require priority treatment and an appropriate and timely response. Among other things, in addition to a successful, sustainable and social Europe and Slovenia and a stronger Europe at the world stage, as the first objective to which Slovenia will give priority to working within the European Union is a secure Europe and a secure Slovenia, within which the Republic of Slovenia will strive to strengthen its capacity for such a Union in which citizens and citizens will feel safe. We also support further strengthening the European Union's cooperation in the field of security and defence within the SMC Group, which will enable us to respond more effectively to security challenges and modern threats. We are particularly committed to taking effective measures to combat terrorism, radicalism and extremism in the spirit of solidarity and common European values. However, we must not allow such events to endanger our security and the enjoyment of the fundamental freedoms that bring membership in the European Union. Slovenia has also become very active in the field of migration policy because it is directly facing and successfully facing migration flows. Otherwise, Slovenia, as the smallest country on the external Schengen border, is very exposed, so within the EU we are committed to a common approach that must be solidarity and responsibility. We are working to prevent illegal migration, which requires effective control of the EU's external borders, the implementation of compensatory internal measures and the full operational capacity of the European Border and Coast Guard. At the same time, in the SMC as a socialliberal party, we would like to point out that Slovenia will pay particular attention to social Slovenia and social Europe during its political orientations. In doing so, we will focus on such a union that will promote equality between women and men and rights and equal opportunities for all, for a Union that will fight unemployment, discrimination, social exclusion and poverty. It is a union where young people will receive the best education and training and will be able to study and find employment throughout the Union. We believe that it is crucial that we put the individual's systemic efforts at the forefront, with all his needs in the field of education, work, health and social security. In doing so, we must also pay particular attention to the fight against intolerance, racism and all forms of hate speech. Therefore, freedom of speech must not be an excuse for the freedom of hatred and the freedom to lie. In addition to the policy orientations mentioned in the proposal for a declaration, Slovenia also highlights the following priorities: strengthening the economic and monetary union, the development-oriented EU budget and the start-up of investments, strengthening the Single Internal Market and completing the Digital Single Market, building a solid energy union, an effective transport policy, maintaining a strong common agricultural policy and a strong common trade policy, the successful use of resources within cohesion policy, supporting the EU's common response and policy on migration issues, actively developing a strong common foreign and security policy and strengthening the role of the EU as a credible global actor. We also strongly support these priorities of Slovenia in the SMC Group. At the same time, we stress the need to move from a number of debates on these topics to decisions on how to proceed and focus on concrete solutions for the benefit of citizens. As can be seen from the content of the declaration, Slovenia is very committed to developing and strengthening common European policies and increasing European integration, especially in areas where only a strong and strongly integrated Europe can be effective. For we need to know that in a globalised international community we will be stronger only when we work together, responsible and solidarity. We therefore insist that Slovenia will continue to contribute constructively to the EU's rule of law, to the strengthening of common European values and to the stability of EU security and economic and social power. Such a stable, safe and united and economically successful and people-friendly Union is the fundamental framework for the development of our country, so we want Slovenia to remain a strong and very committed member of the Union and at the heart of its integration. With a view to achieving the objectives and priorities of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions, we are committed to reaching a broad political consensus at today's meeting of the proposal for a declaration, and the SMC Group will also contribute to its votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Violeta Tomić, left-wing group. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. I welcome all the guests, as well as those who accompany us on television. And I want a nice holiday for all my wives! We must be aware that Europe needs to be made according to the measure of human beings and also with the help of people. The Left advocates a sovereign and active role in decision-making processes in the institutions of the European Union, as we note that the policy of sneezing with monopolies and rulers only deepens the imbalance between the power relations in the European Union and the wider one. The center is getting richer at the expense of an uprooted periphery. Labour rights, a healthy environment, gender equality, solidarity, accessible and quality public health and education, sustainable mobility models and quality nutrition, rather than capital interests, must take priority. The present declaration represents a policy plan to be advocated and implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. This proposal for the period from January 2019 to June 2020 also reflects the vision of Europe, as pictured by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or better by Germany and the United States of America. Thus, the reduction of public services, labour rights and in-depth arms and the spread of only and only freedoms for capital. In Levi, we believe that Europe should be the space of all people. This means that Slovenia should also be aware of its role in co-forming European guidelines. We will not simply agree to the German vision, even if it is more in line with the values that the European Union is supposed to defend. These are solidarity, freedom and democracy. The European Union is one of the world's forces and, as such, could and should also afford very high standards in the field of social, labour, education, health and the environment and the prevention of further climate change. For example, it could also dictate standards in trade policy and the international economy and take a firm position on preventing the avoidance of taxes from international corporations. In the current version, the proposal for a declaration does not do so. Moreover, it welcomes the new free trade agreements, which also contain such and different versions of the ex-court dispute resolution mechanism, which, as we know, sets corporations over national legislation. This could not be supported by the Left, which is why it has already tabled an amendment at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, which is unfortunately not adopted. This means that you have not supported the maintenance of labour rights and transparency standards, the creation of new jobs, the reduction of penal conditions, the improvement of the quality of stay and the increased accessibility of services for all EU citizens. So this is not a priority direction for this time's declaration. The left can't agree to this, so we're offering you a chance to change your mind. We have re- tabled an amendment to this chapter for the upcoming meeting of the National Assembly, which takes a firm position against lowering standards in favour of multi-corporations and their untaxed profits. This time we expect and hope for support. The declaration is traditionally rhetorical and its narrative is only symbolic and does not offer real solutions to actual problems, but only to contain the quality of a long-range view. What is missing is more eloquent than the declaration itself. There is a lack of measures to restore power and power to the people and to the workers in their own environment. The tightening of the belt cannot be the main and only development strategy. Levica will continue to advocate key strategic changes: to raise the minimum wage, social rights and to abolish the fine. In addition, we will fight for the preservation of a clean and healthy environment, safe and quality food and sustainable agricultural policy. Trade policy must therefore follow these values rather than eat them up. Instead, it should be tailored to standards of democracy, transparency and justice. We also advocate a fair tax policy where corporations pay their share of taxes. Minimum common tax standards are inevitable in preventing a fatal race to the bottom. At the same time, we support the limitation of trade agreements, which are in diametric contravention of the fundamental principles of the European Union to oppose secret agreements and those containing the ICS mechanism, which puts corporations above the laws. Finally, we support the inclusion of civil society organisations and trade movements in the democratic decision-making process on trade policy. The eradication of poverty must remain one of the main objectives for the welfare of all Europeans. No one who works should be poor. Unstable working relationships and disproportionate burdens on workers' shoulders are unacceptable in a successful economy such as the European market. Unemployment, poverty, and human unethical living standards are part of the formula of chastity. And that is one of the main reasons for the rise in Euroscepticism, for the rise of the extreme right hand, which can channel people's discontent, which is a very tangible consequence of brexit. Workers are in a peri-work relationship, they are robbed of basic rights, such as the right to hospital leave, an eight-hour worker, pension security and leisure. The number of working conditions per year increases exponentially. In particular, this trend is seen in the peripheral countries of the European Union. At European level, the Left will also advocate the removal of hidden labour relations and the promotion of more stable forms of employment. The Left therefore supports the Europe of solidarity, inclusion and cooperation and Slovenia's upright and self-confident states. No more kneeling and nodding. We continue to fight for a Europe of people, not capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u16	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Membership in the European Union for Slovenia is a fundamental value and political framework for ensuring prosperity and fundamental human rights. We have also written this in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. It binds us to respect the values of the European Union, for the values set by the fathers of Europe, mostly Christian Democrats. And we need to protect these values. New Slovenia is an extremely pro-European party. We have repeatedly stressed that there is no alternative to Slovenia and that the only choice is the European Union, the family of countries and nations. The EU must build on three principles that guarantee common security, unity and democratic values, freedom of equal opportunity and rule of law. This also means respect for the recommendations and warnings of the European Commission. There are several: a violation of the fiscal rule when adopting this year's rebalancing, excessive public spending, overworked wages, a poor business environment that burdens the Slovenian economy. Although this is a proposal for a declaration setting out guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in the EU institutions in the following year or until June 2020, we lack more concrete answers or more precise steps to achieve all the objectives and tasks set. The proposal for a declaration recalls the draft NRPs, a general description of what we have to do within the EU or what Slovenia is supposed to contribute to the EU institutions. It does not answer one of the key questions of today's time, such as illegal migration, where Europe has not yet shown any determination. This is also the reason why Austria has renewed its control at the Schengen border, the free movement between neighbouring countries no longer exists, and Hungary and the Multi-urban countries have a strong and decisive anti-migrant policy. On this point, the question is whether Slovenia will be committed to taking concrete measures at EU level for a genuine, comprehensive and unified solution. Does Slovenia see as such an effective solution the Marrakesh declaration that our government has signed without reservation? How do we explain safe migration? Within the framework of the EU 2020 strategy and the European Semester, we lack the right to implement the Digital Agenda for Europe. Today, IT companies are the fastest growing companies in Europe and the world. We must be aware that Slovenia has enormous potential in this area. We have good engineers, but we do not provide the right business environment for the implementation of this digital agenda. As a result of the insurmountable business environment, these companies, especially medium and small, and young engineers, are moving abroad and we are losing jobs and intellectual potential. We could touch on all the areas of the proposed declaration, which are mostly only the wish of Slovenian policy. Notwithstanding the fact that we are talking about guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions, we should speak more specifically about actual procedures and procedures for their implementation. In New Slovenia, we will not oppose the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Vojko Starović, on behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. Greetings to all, especially girls and wives! After all, we have heard today that you are the same to us, but thank God, you are not the same to us. You are equal, equal, but you are much more beautiful, stable and much smarter than we are, so we must thank you. Those who don't respect women if you look around the world, you'll see that all these countries are in trouble. There is already a 12th proposal for a declaration ahead of us. This is an important point, which is the basis for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we support the EU and we believe that we must strive for a united, linked and stable Europe whose main leadership must remain and the rule of law must be strengthened. As a first strategic objective, the declaration sets out a secure European Union. In order to achieve this objective, solidarity between the Member States and the ever-increasing cooperation between the Member States is particularly important. To preserve the security of Slovenia, a key assumption is a secure Europe and a stable international environment, of which we are part. Maintaining security is also important in the light of the migration we have witnessed in recent years. The wars in Syria and Yemen have not yet received the final epilogue. In recent times, a number of speeches have been made on this subject, more specifically on legal and illegal migration. At the same time, we have heard that some build walls, other bridges, but things are never so uniform and simple. It is necessary to find effective solutions at international level, which the EU has not rightly said so far, and it is therefore right to strive for a common, coherent and coordinated approach to the problem by respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. In facing global challenges, Alenka Bratušek believes that we must always strive for a peaceful resolution of disputes, respect for international law, dialogue and active cooperation. We must strive for a united and integrated European Union, for a coherent foreign policy. Only then will the Union be able to act as a sovereign and credible actor in international relations. One key emphasis of the declaration is also development and sustainable ownership. We are witnessing faster and faster changes, which requires lifelong education for us. Technology development, digitisation, robotics reduce the need for labour, which does not mean that we can be less active as a society. New aspects, opportunities and needs are always emerging, including further sustainable development towards energy efficiency and security. Energy security is inseparably linked to the production of renewable energy sources by which we raise self-sustainment. As an example from abroad, domestic funds and individuals could also invest in projects as well as civilian and military projects and thus become self-sustaining with energy. The new challenges are also posed by artificial intelligence, the main theme in the world of technology. The artificial intelligence is here, interfering with our daily lives in recent years. But in all this, we must not forget for a moment the strengthening of the social field and the coordination of social security systems. There is no Europe without satisfied and socially secure people. In this regard, in the Alenka Bratusek Party, we pay particular attention to the need for a system of long-term care arrangements that includes a number of groups of people in all lifetimes. We want a decent life for all citizens, especially for the elderly. As a country and as a member of the European Union, we must strive to reduce youth unemployment, take measures to alleviate poverty and social exclusion. We are in the Alenka Bratušek Group for an open, social, connected, legal and democratic country with a view to the future, and we will therefore support the declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Mr Ivan Hršak, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions in the period January 2019-June 2020, which serves as a framework for the functioning of Slovenian representatives in the EU institutions. We are witnessing major changes in the European space that have a significant impact on the everyday lives of Europeans and even more stress the need for mutual cooperation in finding solutions to existing and emerging challenges. Migration, employment, security, youth and the elderly will need to be addressed. The issue of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the Union remains open, which is an additional part of the issues that both sides will have to deal with. Unfortunately, the population in Europe is getting older faster than the number of births is increasing, so there will also be a need to think about the development of common policies in this area in the European area. In the Desus Group, we are in favour of the debates and activities taking place in Brussels, but we want Slovenia to become more actively involved in this process. On the other hand, we must not forget the young people we want to give them the authority to, especially those with fewer opportunities. At the same time, we welcome Slovenia's efforts within the new EU Youth Strategy 2019-2027 to focus on strengthening the role of young people in EU policy-making. In doing so, we must not forget the development of youth work and youth policy in Slovenia, and we therefore support the increase in resources in the sectoral programmes. In the spirit of active citizenship of all generations and by creating opportunities for a decent life for all, we must continue to seek to link the economy to the labour market and to reduce the disparities between them. By ensuring sustainable growth and achieving the progress of the Single Market, we are increasing productivity, improving the business environment and allowing jobs to develop, all of which brings important revenues to health and pension bills. We believe that in Slovenia, together with the Union and the social partners, we will continue to fight any discrimination, social exclusion, unemployment and poverty. The role of Slovenia must continue to be constructive and active in this process. For Slovenia, in addition to the above areas, cohesion policy and rural development policy are among the priority areas. As Slovenia does not belong among the territorially large Member States, it is crucial for us to maintain the high volume of the national cohesion envelope and to maintain the volume of funds for the Western cohesion region. Nor should we forget the importance of simplifying the implementation of cohesion policy. With the absence of security risks and threats, it is possible to create prosperity and ensure peace throughout Europe. In the parliamentary group, we agree that common and most effective solutions must be found to prevent the risks posed by migration and, more recently, by technological security threats such as cyber attacks, information attacks or other activities that do not necessarily have a military character. We also support the preservation of Slovenia's leading role in maintaining peace in the Western Balkans region, which is also strategically important for the security of Slovenia. Common solutions and orientations ensure progress for all Member States of the Union, and therefore it is important that we act in a constructive and targeted manner, in particular to take account of national importance priorities. Not words, but acts that count. The prepared proposal for a declaration is a good basis for the continuation of Slovenia's activities in the European Union institutions and, of course, we will support it in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Victory Jelinčič noble, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u22	Hello! The proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions is, in fact, one act that says nothing about what Slovenia will have from this declaration and what the European Union will give Slovenia. She won't give anything. They're gonna fuck us all the time. Of course, the Slovenian government and Slovenian political parties will applaud most of them and will be happy to have them on their shoulders or in some part a little lower. It has been said that we will be stronger in the European Union when we work together. That's bullshit. The Community will be strong and functioning only when its nucleus, the smallest, is called a single piece strong and functional. Until that's done, there'll be nothing. Slovenia, until it is functional, will not in itself mean anything. We are already a gray fox somewhere in Europe, where the interests of Germany, France, England no longer cross, because she was smart, but she got out of this mess, and there were other countries. We have no independence and do not show it because we are simply afraid. We don't know what to do with it. There is talk of measures that will restore power and power to the working class. This reminds me of Rainer Mario Rilke, who wrote about those Ruhr miners. And when do we live? But we're in one period that we've been through. It is said that it is now in 2019. Is it 1919? Some pathological stories about some work, and I don't know what they're taking us nowhere. It is necessary to take the position of the Republic of Slovenia, what we will do, not how we will take into account everything the European Union has said, and then on such a thick head of a declaration, where three quarters of the matter is just an indication of what Europe has done and what it requires, and of course we agree with it. One thing needs to be realized is that there is no honesty at the state level. At national level, there's only legality and there's nothing else. The essence of this legality is based on the economy. If the economy is strong, we will be strong. Slovenia is not small, as some say, but it is true that there is little in the minds of most rulings. In their heads because they don't understand anything and because they're already indisposed as some servants who can't lift their heads and think for themselves. That's wrong. The current government should do something essential else. This declaration is too extensive, too fat, but it does not have those basic issues to say what will save Slovenia. Why could Slovenia not be a tax oasis? You could have been if you hadn't been lying in Brussels' ass. If we don't worship every one of their demands that we have to do this the third time. Why is the Slovenian identity disappearing? Because our rulings think that the statistical offices can't ask anything other than a name and a last name. That's bullshit! First-class bullshit! And that's the shame of the ruling structure. This ruling structure works directly against the interests of the state of Slovenia and against the interests of our citizens. I don't know what they're gonna do or what they're gonna get for it, but it sounds like a lot of things. A lot of people out there, foreign diplomats, say, "at least certain Slovenian diplomats are cheap." They're cheap because they're stupid and they can't even charge their services. We've come so far. We've come so far! And then it's no wonder what price we have in the world. We don't have a price. They're turning us around and putting us in the hands of boots to clean them up for someone who has sciatica in Brussels. And then they send us back to the corner. This is happening to us, to our country. Unfortunately with the country. If this only happens to certain political representatives, I don't care about anything, because if someone's a fool, he's a fool, if he's a jerk, he's a moron, if he's a moron, he's a moron, he's a moron. I'm not talking about them. It's bad enough that our country is suffering from this. To suffer those who will remain behind us. For we do not do anything for those who follow us. Let's go one day, what I know is what, insomnia, promiscuity, subsexuality, I don't know what. Here I congratulate all citizens for the day of the wife, but also those who do not know which sex they are; but let them decide whether they will buy a flower or someone else will buy them a flower, and let them push it anywhere. The country's going to hell. We have done nothing good for the country, nothing good for the citizens. We are talking about something that the European Union is putting inside of some unnatural solution, unnatural solutions that will collapse themselves. It's gonna happen just like the Roman Empire that fell apart. It fell to the western part, which the decadent had devoured and destroyed in a few decades, and to the eastern part, where the natural power of nations and nations and peoples continued to endure, and it existed for a thousand years. Someone would say today, thank God we have Russia. Thank God we have Russia, that we have the Visegraj Group, that we have a smart Hungarian, that the Italians are slowly coming to their senses, and so are the Austrians. We should look at them and think about working for our country. Not for Europe. Europe is nothing, Europe is going to fall apart, Europe is already rotting in the living body. They hold only large amounts of alcohol, usually cognac, each day one bottle in the morning, and in the afternoon it is no longer known what was promised in the morning. Europe can indeed be a Europe of nations. And the nations are the basic nucleus on which to grow good. And when something good grows up, we can work together. But not to our detriment, so that we may be even greater servants than we already are, but by being equal and equal. However, by sneezing the European Union and leaning towards it, we will never achieve this. For us in the Slovenian National Party, this declaration is actually one fling, one bow to the European Union and it has nothing and nothing good for its own country and for its own citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Dear Members and honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to a debate on the complementary decoration proposal. Mrs Ludmila Novak will speak first. Get Mr. Gregor Perič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We have also found in New Slovenia that the declaration does not have some concrete solutions, although it largely refers to the real themes. In New Slovenia, we strongly support Slovenia's membership in the European Union, because we believe that the European Union has also ensured peace among nations and also provides a framework for economic cooperation, progress and, of course, we must do our homework. It is not appropriate to blame Europe for things that we do not do properly or effectively enough, but to do little to resolve our domestic problems ourselves. It is true, however, that Europe, as such, must redefine its values, as some members of the Eastern European countries point out. We agree with this on what are the fundamental values which, and on the basis of which, Europe has been created, make Europe successful and which are also the foundation of democracy in Europe. In doing so, I do not agree with the reference to Christianity and Christian values, but in its operation it does not work democratically, because democracy can be created and developed on the basis of these Christian values. Therefore, Christianity must not be an excuse for selfishness and perhaps for undemocratic moves. Of course, we also need solidarity, because many migrations that want to come to Europe are not the solution to our problems, and Europe must remain solidarity in this way, as it has done so far, of course, it can also be better, more effective. Europe is, not least, the biggest donor with the Member States, I think in 2017 over 80 billion. The question is whether this aid is really effective enough, right and right, to create jobs in these countries, where many people come from, so that people can stay in their area, so that there is no need for them to escape mass from their countries and seek better bread in Europe. Of course, I do not mean to say that migration is not part of everyday life or of life over the years, centuries and millenniums, but on some normal scale. When these migrations occur and are excessive, as in 2015, then they have negative consequences for countries, target countries and also for the countries from which these migrations originate. The European Union is a solidarity, and it is right that Slovenia, too, must be solidarity, because people in third countries, in some countries of the world, cannot help themselves if there is no outside aid. Of course, Europe must not be easy-thinking, it must protect its borders so that such irregular migrations do not occur again, but to some controlled ones or that each country decides for itself how many migrants it wants and needs them. Unfortunately, Europe also acts selfishly, and so do we, when our brains, our educated people leave, not only for a while after experience, but many also remain where they are better paid. But here is the task of our country, whether we will develop instruments, tools, such a tax policy that will motivate these people to stay at home and help boost economic growth in Slovenia, better jobs and so on. Here, however, Slovenia does not have the right strategy for once, although some tax reforms are constantly forecasting. But if we are only going to do tax reforms to tax those who are already doing and doing well and need them, then this is not a successful tax policy for the development of the country or for the survival of the brain that we need in Slovenia. But I also remember several times the debates of representatives from these third countries when they had the same problems when they complained about Europe, and of course also about America and other countries, because their brains are also leaving their countries, so they cannot develop in this way because the labour force, the educated people, is a prerequisite for making a country more successful. In protecting Europe, however, the European Union must show more determination, more cooperation, more integration and also more resistance to its own forces, because one third does not have the same goals as we do, that is, protecting our borders, our communities. We know that countries are often selfish in this regard, I am talking about other major countries, which are taking care of themselves first. The negotiations on the future European perspective were also mentioned. Look, it's a shame we're so inefficient in drawing on European funds. We always do this with delays, we get angry at an ugly Europe. I heard yesterday, Europe gives us nothing. Europe offers us, gives us, and we can't take it. Here we know that we are not effective enough to self-birocraticize additional things, even though there is too much red tape. We need to be more effective on our own if we are to make the use of funds more efficient. The second time we negotiate, we negotiate for the things we need. With what we now have at our disposal, not everyone is satisfied, but at least the municipalities, and they say, we still have no basic infrastructure, but now we have more money for soft projects, not for what we need. Again, Europe is guilty, ugly, because it does not give us. Yes, but when we also talk to other countries, we find that some countries have done so, and they are still investing in infrastructure. So we had a bad negotiation. And when we say we are servants of Europe, we are only slaves as much as we do ourselves for the servants. And I, as a woman, thank you so much for all the congratulations of my male colleagues, have never felt less valuable because I'm a woman, but if that's how you feel about yourself, then others take advantage of it. Here too, if we are self-conscious and know what we want, what goals we have to take, what measures we need to take to do so, Europe will also be able to take this into account and respect. As I was also a European Member during the first Slovenian Presidency, I had the opportunity to see in more detail what this means when a country is chairing the European Union. At that time, we were all proud; we were the first new member of the 10 adopted in 2004, which we chaired to the European Union. I must say that the Slovenian Members were very proud because they all praised us because we had stable economic growth, good finances, and we also adopted the euro a year earlier. That was a very nice, very good feeling. I know that Slovenia was also a great president at the time, and also Slovenian Members we had a Slovenian government and representatives of the Slovenian Government of good relations, they could rely on us. We have tried to find out, help and cooperate well with the Members. However, such cooperation with the end of the presidency must not cease, but must continue. If the Slovenian state, the government, the ministries are well enough to support the Slovenian Members in the European Parliament, which I have seen working in other countries very effectively and successfully, then the Slovenian Members will also know what the interest of the State is, and will also be easier to represent, regardless of which political group they are active or members of, because they will first think about Slovenia's interest. But this depends largely on the Slovenian government, how much it uses its Members in the European Parliament and how fast, efficient and successful it is in doing so. At times, however, we have received messages, recommendations and requests when all trains have been delayed, because procedures are long in the European Parliament too, and we know that deadlines are as they are in Slovenia, if we miss the time to submit amendments, no one can help us. When a point goes by, it goes by, and that is why in the future I would recommend or wish Slovenia to know what its priorities are, it would negotiate effectively not to kneel in front of Europe, as previously said. That we can also hear what Europe is telling us; not because of ourselves, but because there is a more neutral area. They want to tell us why it's good for us to sell state banks – because we've had to rehabilitate them so many times and they're state finances so bad; why we need a different budget – because in the end it's going to hurt us if we don't do something; why we need reforms – we ourselves know that we need them, and the government has either failed to prepare these reforms, whether the parties are afraid or not, and so on. That is why it is not justified for us to be smooching and maiming in Europe, but to listen to our policies, we are also trying to include it because it is good for us. For us! I believe that Europe, the European Union has ensured peace, cooperation, progress, of course, must also redefine its values, must look at where the obstacles are, at too much red tape, as we all know, and must phase it out. However, Slovenia must be a full, equal, confident member, but it must know for itself what its objectives are, what it wants to achieve and in time to compete for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Gregor Perič. Get ready, Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone again! What I will now discuss is that, at the outset, it is not an apology of the European Union, but it is my view of how things stand or sometimes tend a little. Today we are discussing a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the 18-month period. This declaration isn't the first, it was, I think, 12. Even in today's debate, we have heard a lot of things, and many have also pointed a very sharp finger, an ostrich or some other aid against the European Union. Whether this is justified or not, I think this is crucial today, as has been the case with this debate. First of all, we are aware that in the previous 20th century, the first half of the 20th century was marked mainly by major crises and even greater wars. In short, none of this is good and none of this is ever something we want to do in Europe and not elsewhere. In Europe, we have been fortunate enough to have some smart heads sit together and decided on a project we call the European Union today, and most importantly, it has been providing peace within Europe for several decades. Peace is a fundamental starting point for us to talk about anything else — economic progress, social rights, and perhaps some more time. It is easy to say that the European Union contributes to nothing and that it is something completely meaningless and irrelevant and that we can achieve much more on our own, that is, I hope to say, a lie that has proved to be true in the past, who knows history many times. This may certainly be slightly better in a narrow historical framework for countries that are large, which have great powers, but it certainly is not a solution, and this is not an option for countries that are territorial, population, capital and otherwise modest or, if we want, small. I see Slovenia as a small country, but it has very much to offer and show, it has in the past, and I am sure it will be so in the future. When we are dissatisfying and dissatisfied with the way the European Union operates, we need to essentially set up a mirror and not direct this discontent to Brussels, as we have in the past directed to Belgrade, or to Vienna, or elsewhere, but we need to ask ourselves what we can do better in this regard. My assessment is that we do not understand here exactly how processes, decision-making processes within the European Union work. It often happens that we have already received an act from the European Union, whether it will be a directive, a regulation or a third, which has already been finalised, more or less completed, there to 98-99% and then normally we cannot contribute enough to its content at this final stage. It is crucial if we want to be successful and if we want to create more actively and also influence the legal framework or legislative framework of the European Union, that we do it in time, not at the end of the decision-making phase or legislative phase, but at its beginning. Here I think that what is essential is what some countries are doing very skillfully, and Slovenia has a challenge here that can be used even better in the future. In this way, I think that we will all be much more pleased with what we are getting together, because we will be more actively and involved in the decision-making process itself. It seems important to me to point out another matter, where Slovenia belongs or where it is located within the European Union. If we listen carefully to public debates, we have somehow two options available. One option is to put ourselves in this more fundamental part of the European Union, and the other option is the so-called Multi-Citizen Group. It is legitimate to discuss what the advantages of one or the other are, but my personal preference and I think that the preference of a number of others is, at the end of this stage, also of the previous governments, the previous SMC government has made it very clear that it wants to belong to some of the core parts of the European Union, not to its borders. As it is said, everyone is found somewhere, either on the edge or in its core. Let me remember, a good year ago, in February, the summit of prime ministers took place in Ljubljana, namely Slovenia with the countries of Benelux, which is the most central, central point of the European Union, where the European Union was actually created. In fact, the Presidents of the governments have identified and reiterated that Slovenia, although geographically far from Benelux, has a very large share with these three countries – politically and otherwise – in terms of views on European content, on the functioning of the single market, on the issue of migration, on the issue of solidarity between the Member States of the European Union. On this basis, there was also a common position or declaration that summarized all of these directions. I believe that, on the basis of the spirit of this declaration and those political messages that were then articulated a good year ago, the current government can also find a great deal of inspiration and guidance. In the final phase, we have very much in common with these three countries both in the framework of the design of the multiannual financial framework and if we support each other, Slovenia is not one, but has three strong allies. In the final stage, this has also proved to be true in the case of arbitration where these countries – for example, for Belgium, I can say directly that it has strongly supported us in solving this international problem, because they are aware that this problem is also very instructive in addressing border issues in the Western Balkans when the European Union is expanding there. This is one of the key strategic starting points of Slovenia for its long-term development in this area, this region. As it is said, the issue of security is also very important and exposed in the declaration we have today, and I am pleased that policy within the European Union has been unified in that the issue of security has also come to the top of the priority and solutions are being sought here. Of course, there are many that, for the sake of some of their narrow interests, even narrowly concentrated ones and then break down a common single solution, and then we find ourselves in trouble especially those who also have an external border – if we are talking about migration. If I also conclude with the famous and many-time Marrakesh declaration, I cannot help but say that Mr Manfred Weber, the European People's Party-led gentleman, is a proponent of this declaration because he is aware of its positive effects. Then what we hear within our political space, how these things are then being torn apart and how they are being reinterpreted, especially in the more right political field, is also a question in the final stage for our voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Dr. Milan Brglez, and prepare for Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, I'd like to re-emphasize a few things. I have already begun to believe that this attitude of the institution of the Republic of Slovenia towards the European Union will need to be improved even more in many ways. I have also begun in the position of the Group of Members with a need for a little self-criticism; from the fact that individual labour bodies do not take enough serious action at European level and allow the Government's position, without supplementing it, to consider at least politically, if not otherwise, and then wonder when the same thing has to be adopted in our legal order in the end. This is not just a matter of concern at this level. It is also problematic because the whole monitoring process needed at the point of subsidiarity and proportionality, which is necessary from the point of view of individual countries, is not fully carried out. To put it another way: Parliament is relatively small, parliamentary groups are small and in fact so much of its own expertise cannot be overcome that without the help of all countries, it can develop a position that has at least two branches of government some legitimacy; in the executive, which is just responsible, and on the other hand also legislative. That's one thing I'd really like to point out. There's an extra thing going on. The processes within the European Union lead to the fact that more and more delegated acts and delegated acts are in fact under control, whatever the case, of the National Assembly completely disappearing. On the other hand, it is happening to us more and more times in the trilateral process, because countries cannot agree, the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council agree. This can also be reversed by 180 degrees in a directive that we will have to implement in the National Assembly or to join our legal system. While I am interested in how this will look, it will be clear that the position is one and that the matter is 180 degrees different, because, after our constitution, the Member's will is not given in advance, so that we will most likely all have certain problems together, or the compression of teeth, again, even on such fundamental issues. In order for this to be rectified, it is likely that this law, which regulates the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government, will have to be reopened so that information can flow more normally. Since this process is so long that it takes at least two months for a modified position to come to the National Assembly, and this is due to the dynamics of work in the European Union sometimes too slowly or often too slow, especially when the Commission is in a hurry to clean things up from the tables, as it is now. These are some of the most unpleasant things. Then they won't work for six months, but now they're in a hurry. The first thing I wanted to mention. Second thing. We must be aware that the presidency we have before us will be different from the one before us. The role of the President of the Government, the role of the Foreign Minister is completely different or they are performed entirely by others. In fact, they are irrelevant if they do not find at least a protocol and symbolically appropriate place within this Presidency. All the other ministries are the ones that are the key. That is why we need a system, because the previous Presidency alone is not enough to ensure that the next one is well carried out. As a result, we need substantive guidance so that we know what we are doing and that the National Assembly will also know what to do to contribute to this. Not that he'll know what he has to do, but that he'll make a contribution and that he'll be interested in doing it. The third thing I would like to say is: yes, one part of the criticism is true, the double criteria actually exist in the European Union. Double criteria that usually go between large or small, or they can go between large capital and small capital, or whatever you want to do. It does not apply to all the same rules, nor is it therefore different from that of absolutely everywhere and always insisting on triple connectivity; not now one thing out there: the rule of law, democracy and human rights. The moment you remove one of these, you get a dysar. Only with democracy — we know where we can get history. And I would not want to open it again – discussions here. Human rights are a limit that conflicts with normal democracy, and the rule of law is also because at least a branch of power has to be separated, if not another one, which is often forgotten by us. Two more things that matter. At least for me, the question of sovereignty is the knowledge we have. There's more of that knowledge, it's easier for us, and we can defend our sovereignty with knowledge, with creativity. Of course, we must be timely, and we must hope to do something, but without knowledge there is no spine. And two more things. There's often talk of allies saving us. No, legal remedies! All the allies who are are bigger than us and want something from us. And finally, remember, sail is not enough. The Constitution binds everything. Principles emanate from the Constitution [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare to be Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today, when we discuss the orientations of the functioning of Slovenia in the European Union, let me first say that I am happy that Slovenia is and that I live in Slovenia, which is part of the European people, which is part of the European Union. And I feel safe. I want peace to continue, I want cooperation and, of course, progress. All of this makes it possible for Europe, sometimes possible, even in this House, to speak too negatively. Europe gives us some guidance that the national Parliament adopts and then implements. But of course it's on our government. And it's up to our government how the laws are going to be regulated, how powerful they're going to reach into a particular segment, into an individual's life. One case was when we identified or adopted a law on the limitation of money due to abuse. The European Union has said that cash operations in Europe are possible at EUR 15 000. When we accepted this declaration here and implemented it, of course, the then government limited it to 5,000. Then who is making us life, and what freedom do we have in Slovenia? And everyone says, "Ugly Europe." No, it is not an ugly Europe, we, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decided to limit this to 5,000 cash transactions – anti-corruption and money laundering was the law. It is said that Europe sets some milestones, and within this we can all limit ourselves; and so, too, in the field of agriculture. Europe does not prescribe what and how we need to pursue what objectives, but how we implement legislation in Slovenia does not. Because the Austrians have different legislation, more open than the Slovenians have. Moreover, Europe does not dictate what and how, what investigations and what we need to have. Unfortunately today, the news is that Mr Fakin, Minister of Health, has resigned. I have asked myself many times, and I wish to have the same comparative potential in the area of cancer as the European Union as Germany has. [[…]] Why is the Dora prevention programme in Slovenia carried out between 50 and 70 years old, and Germany is already implementing it at the age of 40? Why is that? I wish, and my efforts will be in the future, to have the same opportunities in the area of cancer in Slovenia as other European nations. Another thing is that no one's conditioning it either, and it's our decision. How will family and professional life be coordinated? How will family policy and social policy work? Europe has this very well solved. Why not follow suit in the coming mandate after major trials and allow such families, children's scholarships, children's allowances and, of course, those who have social needs, social allowances. It was said that the same rules did not apply in Europe; the colleague just said so. That's right. They don't apply the same rules. But why aren't they valid? Because from every nation, it is important from each individual how much he is willing to activate, if he has the right arguments and, of course, if he is active, if he is successful, if he is working, if he is looking for a way to help [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next one on the list of applicants just stepped down. There's no Masha Kociper either. But I see Mrs. Violeto Tomić here. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u32	I just got here, and I left lunch on the table, and I'm not gonna have any scandals like a sandwich talking about autobiographical data. Unfortunately, I didn't think so many people would check out, because the European Union's theme is extremely important and unfortunately it should be important for our Members as well as for voters who sometimes feel that what happens there is not our problem. The fact is that the European Union needs to become more democratic and more social if it is to be preserved and, above all, we have heard a great deal about security. Let me tell you about safety. Not once have I heard of the causes and consequences, especially from the right hand, which has a full mouth of security. You know, if you go to a doctor with a very bad disease – and this safety and migration problem is the disease of the European Union as we have here and as you have seen – a good doctor will look for reasons, a bad doctor will fill you with pills, corporations will live very well, pharmaceuticals, you will experience the disease again, in fact you will die from the consequences of the treatment and overload of the body with these medicines. A good doctor will see what the cause is and when he finds the cause, you will be healthy. This is the only way to survive the organism, and thus the only way to survive the body of the European Union is to be aware of the causes. What am I talking about? We have never spoken – I am talking about security and peaceful rescue, and also Prime Minister Sarec has said a lot of good things – but we have never discussed that we did not oppose the wars that destroyed Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Libya. Then we wonder if we have any fugitives. From my own experience, I was at the border with Morocco a week ago, where the people of Polisaria have been waiting for justice for 34 years. In 1992 they were promised a referendum and are still waiting. They did not flood Europe, they have their own country, presidents, ministers, and they do not need our charity, they need recognition. What the European Union does – it signs a trade agreement with Morocco, which sells indeed goods from their occupied territories! And Morocco, when it took possession of their territories, made a wall 2,000 thousand miles long and laid a million mines on which children, women, the inhabitants set foot. And yet they insist. We are talking about the annexation of Crimea, how we will condemn Russia for this annexation; here, and in front of our eyes, we tolerate occupation because of our financial interests. Such things are unacceptable! You know, they're holding our safety. If they had their own country, they would have had the effect of a sponge, they would have built it, they would have hired people, and Europe would not have faced the migration problem. Do you think it's cool for people to run away from their homelands, their homes? Do you think they're cool with being taken by no one on boats and drowning in the Mediterranean Sea or in the Kolpa River? They're not cool! Believe me, everyone would rather live at home — if we let them and help them stay at home. Thus, in the security issue, respected and respected, Europe does not make the right moves. We always say that problems must be solved at their source. What I've told you is to solve problems of origin and not set up even higher fences. Trump's pattern sets up a big fence against Mexico. Yeah, but what did he accomplish? That his public sector didn't get paid. People working in the public sector didn't even have the money to get jobs. And he is not in violation of human rights, but is in violation of Venezuela! Sort of. These are the double standards of the European Union that must be stopped. Of course, false prophets advocate less Europe. Just because the extreme right had risen, Levica proposed amendments that would eliminate the chastity that would raise wages. You know, the European Union is the only thing it can do – let's tighten the belts! During the crisis, what happened? The periphery fed the center, the poor fed the rich. And while we – and also, I believe, all the countries of the so-called marginal – have tightened their belts and squandered their pensions Now they like to talk, look, our man who worked for 40 years gets 400 euros, uh, one migrant just three grand – which of course he doesn't. [[…]] But because of this global economic crisis and because of the wrong policies of the European Union, we have come to the conclusion that our pensioners are fighting, that we have belt tightening in the fields of education, health, development. We only finance a balloon, but in the end, you know, these rich people got double rich. During the worst crisis, the number of multibillionaires doubled in Europe as well as in the world. To preserve Europe, as we know it today, this trend must be reversed. Thus, Europe must become a country of all its citizens and citizens and redirect money from where it is too much to where it is lacking. It also needs to become environmentally friendly. Glyphosate should have been banned long ago, research said 30 years ago and proved that the links between cancer and glyphosate were linked. It also causes increased resistance to various starches. But with us we even produce it – again the interests of corporations before the interests of people! When Europe becomes accountable to all citizens and citizens, and when it thinks first of all about their welfare, it will be able to maintain what it is. Otherwise, as some Members have already spoken before me, it will only be the first step and there will be more of these -exites. The far right is getting stronger. Brexit is the result of precisely this, the discontent of people because they feel cheated, abandoned, alone, because the European Union is not a kind mother to them, who would take care of everything the same, but a stepmother who cares only for those at the top. And here people are robbed of dignity, robbed of their rights to a decent life, and right-wing populism use it. A lot of goodies, and that's why you're strengthening them. [[...]] Now we have heard a lot of optimistic claims, mainly from the government, but I am sure that we must demand change and not be satisfied with what it is. We need to make a strong demand because Slovenia is an equal Member State, but we are constantly denying the interests of the strongest – Germany, the United States and so on. If I also touch on the European Union's trade policy. You know, the European Union is one of the world's biggest economic partners. The European Union is the one who should set standards for everyone. You're supposed to be a role model. On the shelves of European trade, we should never encounter products made with child labour, slave labor, the exploitation of the jungles, the oceans. Never! If we set this standard, the whole world would quickly change globally. Slovenian agriculture and the economy are already affected by climate change. We have them, although some deny them: The earth is flat, the planet doesn't warm up, it cools down, the cats are dying out. You know, climate change is a constant, and the desertion of the planet is terrible. The movement, the desert, it's like a desert, it's moving up. The issue of water will be the most important issue in the future. And the question of self-sustainment. Of course, in the previous mandate, on the initiative of the Left, we have entered the right to healthy drinking water into the Constitution, but we are still witnessing the severe pressures of corporations on this right. But as we have enshrined in our Constitution, we should actively promote at European Union level that the whole of Europe should also write down the right to drinking water in its acts, for this is one of the fundamental rights. It is also necessary to actively promote more stable forms of employment, the fight against leniency and the raising of minimum wages. No one who is employed must live below the threshold of poverty. I think it's an imperative that we should all agree with. You can't work every day, work 8 hours a day, and not have enough for the basic necessities of life. Here, you know, man then radicalizes; he becomes very angry and then we know that he is the quick target of some populists who think they will fight to solve their problems. We witnessed a similar situation before World War II. Look, she's identical, just a diction that referred to Jews who were guilty of working-class poverty, now used migrants, refugees, whatever you call them. The diction is the same, the climate is the same, the spirit of the hour is the same. Let us do our utmost not to be the same, for mankind will not survive the next world war. Today there are so many weapons in the world that we are able to destroy our planet Earth five times not once! And yet the military industry is one of the strongest. Nevertheless, in all the budgets of the countries, we are first thinking about how much we will give for weapons. Wrong, completely wrong! It is not true that what is happening in the Middle East and in third countries is not our problem. It's always our problem. Whatever happens anywhere in the world claps into us. I agree with Prime Minister Sharc that Slovenia is small, but that does not mean that it should not be proud. We've always been part of a major wave of change. When the Berlin Wall fell, when Yugoslavia fell apart, we always responded and responded in the best possible way that moment. But within the European Union we must take an active position and actively co-create policies. Let me just go back to our amendment. With the amendment, we have proposed that international trade should not endanger or reduce environmental, social, health, infrastructure, cultural and labour standards. Large corporations are putting pressure on all countries of the European Union, especially those peripheral, small ones. Work, people aren't important at all. Profits are important, and that's the wrong thing. Not the environment, not environmental standards, nor labour standards are as important as the right of capital to invest. But you know, in the end, and at the end of time, we don't eat paper and money! And this money doesn't even have a cover, and this paper doesn't have that much paper, that's zero, that's one computer formation that doesn't mean anything. And the richest have so much money that in 10 lives they won't waste that money. Why don't we tax them? They will not know each other, but the world will know each other very well and the European Union. Instead of some common European armies, we build joint railways. Why does the TGV in France go by putting you on a seat and being on a plane, you get to the border with Slovenia, and it takes you three hours to get from Ljubljana to Metlika or anywhere. This would be the European Union's development policy and we will fight for it in Levica! In shaping the European Union's common policy, we must, by example and inflexible to our own fundamental democratic principles, impose rules of transparency, inclusion, solidarity and justice in the adoption of important guidelines and strategies for international trade; civil society organisations, trade unions and so on must also be included. We are witnessing a democratic deficit in the European Union. We are now approaching the European parliamentary elections. What is the decision of the European Parliament? Very few things. The European Commission has taken the right to decide on the lives of citizens where an unelected official is elected. No wonder citizens are completely disappointed, and no wonder election participation is so low! That needs to be changed. More power must be given to the people and their directly elected representatives. Not to mention the many lobbyists that are around 300,000, these too would be very wise to describe, to record, to know who is really taking the lead. The objective is not only to grow and develop the countries of the centre, but to develop cohesion in all countries equally and equally, otherwise we will have increasing differences within the European Union, increasing differences between the rich and the poor within each country and increasing differences within the world, between third countries and the European Union. You know, this imbalance never leads to anything good. When the world is overloaded on one side, it becomes overturned. We must therefore take care of balance, justice, fairness and democracy. Europe was established on these foundations; and something else, it was established on the basis of anti-fascism. We must never forget this and never allow right populism or, as Prime Minister Sarec said, what expression did you use? – “The false prophets of less Europe want.” We cannot afford less Europe at this moment. Slovenia is small and we sold everything because the mantra of the European Union was only: privatisation, privatisation. So we stayed; the Hungarians picked up quite a bit of Prekmurje, Austria came down pretty deep and bought agricultural land that did not pay us, the Croats picked up hotels in Istria, the Italians speak Vivela Italian Istria. We can afford that, too, without consequences. Catastrophe, respected and respected! If the European Union falls apart, Slovenia will remain confined to Ljubljana with a narrower environment. Then we will be able to talk about state-of-the-art, wasted opportunities and whether or not we are or what we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thanks again for saying that. Certainly, those who have said from the coalition that the Slovenian government is successfully dealing with illegal migration deserve a statement today. By the way, what are the actual numbers? From last year to last year, the number of illegal migrants caught in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia after an illegal incursion increased by 5 times, not by 5 times! In the first month, for example, only after the new year this year has this five-fold increase increased by a third. So much for this successful confrontation. In addition, I add a number from the official Italian police from their unions to assess that the daily additional income of migrants through Slovenia is on their southern route, as they say on the Balkan route, somewhere between 60 and 300 every day. So much for controlling the illegal migrant flow. To whom this seems to be the control of illegal migration, it may also seem to him that there are some pink elephants dancing the Montenegrin wheel, but this is the second time. Who, in fact, is this today's act of declaration of orientation directed to? Yes, to all those who are either acting as officials, either as representatives or in any other role in or in contact with the institutions of the European Union. Now I ask you what the point of taking such acts is if we know what the effect is. We have, for example, a member of the European Commission in charge of transport, all the major transport projects that were launched at that time are going far past Slovenia. That's the effect. For example, one of the biggest projects planned during this period, an additional fast north-south railway, should even have a 62km tunnel to avoid the country of Slovenia, which means that Slovenia is excluded from all these flows. We can say that our representatives in the institutions of the European Union are simply incompetent and that would be a very correct expression, but this is something else. In general, we meet with that footnote when you work in the institutions of the European Union, but you are responsible for all of Europe or all European citizens and citizens, which is true in theory, but ladies and gentlemen, all the representatives of Germany working in the institutions of the European Union have put German interest in the first place. I don't know why they forget Slovenia's interest when they get there. The other is that, in addition to having obvious problems with their spine, perhaps someone with an ishias, is the problem of ignorance. But this is not a problem for the European Union, because it is now blaming the European Union for everything, that is the problem here and now. It was wonderful the last time we presented the budget, when it was so vehemently said that we are now forecasting tax reform, so that it will relax a little with the income – which is nice, this is good, this is positive – but we will do a good job with capital, but we will raise extra taxes twice, because then cumulatively this sums up, and we will stop those practical reliefs for long-term investments. It is only necessary to have a little knowledge and that little knowledge says the following that on a small market such as Slovenia, there is a manoeuvre in raising demand – this side is said to be because, for example, you also regulate income by tax in this sense – this room of manoeuvre is extremely small because the market is very small. There is a great advantage for a large country, which has 10 million or even 100 million markets. But you have a huge chance of making the country more promising by making it easier on the capital side. To attract foreign investors to promote good jobs, to promote high productive investment, which then opens up high productive jobs and so on, high technologies. I have this lady and gentlemen, if your neighbor, Croatia, now reduces the capital tax to 15%, you want to raise it to 30, of course you will not do that, you will cause a terrible flight of capital. [[…]] Because capital — what do they call it? – is a shy bird. And that's what every manual says, because you don't have to have some strong knowledge, but you have to understand what you're really doing with something. And don't go bragging about such nonsense. It's just proof of how all left-wingers are now kneeling in front of the left with a big letter at the beginning, and they're still out there somewhere, so I'd rather not comment further. Before that, the lady who introduced Levica said so beautifully: "Let's build the European Union's common railways!" Yeah, it's going on, that's what I'm talking about. Don't you know that? Only the Commissioner who decides to do so has taken this far, far beyond the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. So much for who the declaration of guidelines for work in the European Union is intended for. And there was nothing better to understand with the previous ones. This is a real disaster, who represents us in the institutions of the European Union, and therefore, of course, there is so much more dissatisfaction with it. Here, when it comes to elections, it will be necessary not only to see which party it will be, but also to have one of the individual parties to have a spine to fight for Slovenia. We need such ones there in the European Union, not someone who advocates all other interests, but who thinks that there is a strong high policy. And finally, to get back to the beginning. Of course, such a system as it is now created, a system with a set of false values, a system where freedom is threatened, a system where no external borders are protected, but it wants to create a multiculture event that is not going together. Radical Islam is not integrated, and we could all learn that once and for all. This cannot be maintained without violence, and today on the streets of France you have a great case of what the European Union country should not look like. If the European institutions were valuable, they would also deal with this, they would very clearly condemn the excessive, unnecessary, excessive violence of the French police against the French citizens that is now taking place. But I've never heard of a European institution condemning it. This, of course, reduces confidence in Europe. I say again; Europe is in the interest of Slovenia, certainly, Slovenia is an export country, it is in a strategically very important area, it has many advantages from this point of view. But Slovenia needs people who will promote its interests and needs policies that will protect Slovenia and Slovenian interests and, of course, take things as far as possible, but not that the most negative patterns such as, say, persecution of hate speech, when you want to shut the mouth of the opposition because you know that you are not capable of doing anything smarter or driving the country completely into disaster, and the European Union into decay, then reaching for violence. As an example, once again, France under Macron is an excellent example. But don't think that there is anything different in Slovenia, for the last time, I've warned about what's going on at a lower level right now. For example, it removes and blocks someone because they publish images from the national celebration of the Republic of Poland. Wait, people of God! Poland is a member of the European Union. If there is a national celebration, where their president begins and is fully committed to patriotism, the values that everyone in Slovenia has — by the way — in the mouth, and in practice we have very little respect for it, how can this be defined as hate speech?Oh, my God! It just points to what I'm pointing out. The hate speech is therefore not a defined and totally unacceptable and direct violation of Article 39 of the Constitution, which guarantees freedom of expression, is a constitutionally protected value, is any administrative enforcement of the persecution of an enemy speech. In this context, unfortunately, there is also a statement by the President of the Government when he said that some should be careful where they advertise. In short, it is no longer about the business interests of public companies, but about politics. That, ladies and gentlemen, is obviously unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of panellists, so that we come to the conclusion of the general debate in which the President or the representative of the Government gets the floor. Nobody wants to talk anymore. This concludes the debate on the complementary proposal for a declaration. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Chapter External Affairs and Defence, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment of 7. 3. 2019. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mrs. Violeta.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u36	As we say, our amendment was rejected at a committee meeting and now we have a chance to face it again. I am somehow asking for your support, because we must put labour rights, solidarity, accessible public education and health, freedom and democracy first, if we are to restore people's dignity and strength and not to resort to such measures as are extreme, which are the source of intolerance and disaster. Thus, our amendment is moving our policies towards the European Union to actively advocate a higher standard of labour rights, to respect, to eliminate the chastity. Without this, we will not have Europe as we deserve it and as we need it, but only the erosion of rights on the one hand will cause the erosion of Europe, as we know, some people are exploiting it, so please support our amendment, which goes towards greater rights, more democracy and greater representation of the rights of all people, because, as we have said, no one who works should be poor. This is very important in the European Union to represent environmental, social and democratic standards. That's what our amendment is talking about, and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I will make a full decision on the amendment and the proposal for a declaration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 15th A-point of the agenda – to the defensive proposal of the candidate for the Ministry of Culture. On 26 February 2019, the President of the Government of Marjan Šarec proposed to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 112(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that he appoint a mag as Minister for Culture. Zoran Poznicz. I give the floor to Prime Minister Marjan Sarc to complete the explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u38	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the decision on the new Minister for Culture, the candidate for Social Democrats, the Director of the Working House Trbovlje mag. Zoran Poznań. I believe that he has also assured me that he is aware of the complexity of the challenges that lie ahead, including, in particular, the expected and expected echo speech on the eve of a cultural holiday and even after a series of already born cultural visions, which have been pushed slightly aside. They are shared by every government, and of course this time too, although it has allocated an additional EUR 30 million to the cultural budget in the balance sheet, although the cultural budget is the most financially powerful since 2012. But I understand that such a vocabulary is “mödern”, but not necessarily wise. The insufferable ease of criticism of others is that it often fogs or even completely blurs self-reflection. I'm not going to go on without my speech overshadowing the candidate, as on another occasion recently. I'm not hiding that I expect a lot from Zoran Poznič, who for more than a decade has been mutilated in leadership. For the very sphere of culture, contrary to many, I see it as equivalent, as an area which, by its ambition, should by no means be lagging behind; rather, the opposite. Well, that's not a political footnote. That's why I'm waiting for solutions, waiting for laws or, if you want, lex cultural euro, lex media, a new national programme for culture, if you want me to mention them on purpose. In short, I'm waiting for launch and suggestions on how to make an emergency breakthrough. I don't want to be nosy and explain why it's not working or not working, and I don't want that from my employees at Master 10. I'm not going to repeat what I said about the relationship at the Ministry today. I only express my expectation that these relations will be appropriate for the Ministry. At the same time, I want to believe that the employees of the past few days have at least had a little look at themselves. Look at at least so much that the advantage of complaining will have a job and that the stories of broken trust will change the effort, as you are adults, be people, and be cultural. I find it difficult to believe that the source of mistrust, discomfort or, if you wish, mutual impatience is the fault of every single minister or minister. Zoran Poznik, as he says, wants wide cooperation with actors in all areas of culture. I wish you'd give him a chance. Not because of him, but because of culture, because of everything that the government is constantly being called upon or called to order. It's about culture, so it's time for all anonymous or self-inflicted circles to be withdrawn, not to say lobbying for money and influence to go around Maistro. Not all gold and art is sacred. You, honourable Members and Members, must give the candidate the opportunity first. And with that, I open up, I believe, a full debate. To a candidate who, I believe, will be confirmed, and I also want a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u39	I thank the Prime Minister for his further explanation. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself at a meeting of the Committee on Culture on 4 March 2019 and responded to questions raised by members and members of the good. You have received the report and the opinion of the Committee. The latter shows that the presentation of the proposed candidate is appropriate. The report of the Committee on Culture will be presented by President Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr Poznic, proposed as Minister of Culture, presented and answered questions to members and members of the Committee on Culture, in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230, first and second paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In presenting the priorities to be achieved at the Ministry of Culture this year, the Minister's candidate highlighted: the adoption of a cultural euro law that will allow for some urgent investments in infrastructure and digitisation, which will at least take a closer look at what is happening in Europe. At the same time, he warned that we must not ignore problems in the area of protection of cultural heritage. Another major task is to prepare and adopt new media legislation. He pointed out that the existing media law does not touch all the new technologies and new possibilities for communication and media coverage of the content that new technologies bring. Therefore, the new media law will need to be upgraded with new content and limited to hate speech, which is currently not sanctioned either on the Internet or elsewhere. He thinks the task force could start right away. The third priority is the preparation and adoption of the National Programme for Culture. In his view, it is a very demanding project that can be solved in cooperation and through discussion, perhaps also through the principle of dialogue groups, which has been successfully used in the preparation and possible solutions to legislation on the resolution of the status of self-employed in culture and non-governmental organisations. In conclusion, the candidate stressed that in recent years he has been crystallized by a number of fundamental tasks that we must take seriously and through dialogue and an in-depth social consensus to establish a form in which we will make progress and preserve ourselves as a community in a changing Europe. These are debirocratisation, simplification of decision-making procedures and accountability. In his opinion, however, these are also the guidelines for the establishment of a ministry job in the coming months, together with a team that will be ready to work, take responsibility and praise. In his statement, which he read in the opening presentation, he stressed that if confirmed as Minister of Culture, he would immediately exclude himself from all procedures relating to the call for a network of research arts and culture, to which he would be led by the Working House of Trbovlje and carried out at the Ministry. He ensured that he would take full account of the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption and act in accordance with its guidelines. The debaters and discussers, after presenting the candidate for minister, wanted more detailed answers to some questions. The candidate answered the questions raised and took note of his views, views and opinions at the meeting of the Committee, as well as of more concrete proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to the Ministry of Culture. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee, with 11 votes and 3 votes against, adopted the opinion that the presentation of Zoran Poznič, the candidate for the Minister of Culture, was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, Ambassador Nina Maurovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Culture is the foundation and basis of the identity of a nation. That is why the area of culture needs to be dealt with with with as carefully as possible, with the domestic and national consciousness, with deep respect for the past and the present, with understanding and with a great deal of fine support for the creators, both for those of our rich cultural and artistic history and for all those who are just creating our cultural landscape and identity for the present and future generations. We Slovenians are rarely aware that as a small nation, we have remained primarily because of our rich cultural heritage, our love of language, and our insatiable spirit. The Ministry of Culture is much more than a state institution that takes care of cultural institutions. The Ministry of Culture is, in fact, one of the most state-owned ministries. It ensures that citizens of culture are insided as the basic building block of our identity and nation, as glue, which unites us all into one and makes us proud and powerful. The Ministry of Culture is also entrusted with the care of a good image of culture. In times past capitalism, it is essential that we not only view art and culture as unnecessary costs or worse, that its price and value are determined only by success in the market. At a time when culture and budget resources are finally earmarking a slightly more abundant piece of cake, it will be necessary to know in a critical and sometimes even a little prophetically the best that our culture offers, and this will also be adequately supported. That's why I'm glad that mag. Zoran Poznań himself recognizes that he has a great responsibility and can't wait to start working and show what he knows. Its advantage is the knowledge of art and cultural mileage, as he mastered at the Academy of Fine Arts, while at the same time he was very successful for 11 years in managing the Institute of Culture of the Delavski dom Trbovlje. In his previous work, he showed that an artist can be an excellent manager and leader with creative ideas and the ability to pull the cart forward with the will and determination. Expectations are high, and there'll be a lot of work. A new national programme for culture will have to be prepared, roof legislation will be revised, media legislation will have to be revised, tender problems will have to be resolved, the situation of self-employed people in culture will have to be regulated and they could be listed. The Ministry will also need to restore trust between employees and management. Or maybe it's just the fact that the mag is. Zoran Poznic comes from the Trubovlje, a city that behaves with the most artists per square meter, its greatest advantage. In the environment and circumstances that at first seem to bring no more than hard life, robustness and darkness, it is obvious that with much greater force than elsewhere, artists, art and culture are born. Taking over the post of Minister is a state-owned mission, not just a function, requiring commitment, prudence and self-sacrifice. In the Emissary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca Mag. We want Zoran Poznica, and we expect him to be successful in dealing with all of these, and we offer him our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u43	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! He's a candidate for the Minister of Culture, Mag. Zoran Poznic has mastered video and new media at the Academy of Fine Arts in Ljubljana. In 2008, he was appointed Director of the Department of Culture, Delavski dom Trbovlje. Through the syntagma of Trbovlje, the new media city has established a vision that combines the creative potentials of a larger and wider community and integrates into global trends in the field of new media. The main manifestation of this integration is the festival of the new media culture Speculum Artium. Mag. Zoran Poznits introduced the development of a new media culture into the local space and thus linked it to international trends. It is aware that in the 4th and 5th Industrial Revolution, the area of virtualisation and digitisation of culture is an important direction to take and, as it has itself stressed, to pull the train forward into the 21st century. Culture and guidelines for cultural development are well defined in the coalition contract, which is a political document to which the Ministry of Culture will also follow in its mandate. I quote, “culture is an extremely heterogeneous system that combines a variety of fields: book, cultural heritage, film, music, dance, visual and artistic art, language, intermedia field, cultural and artistic education and so on. Despite the fact that each of them needs to be approached individually, in the field of culture it is necessary to think of an integrated, interlinked system. Culture, according to numerous studies, is actually one of the key foundations for the development of an open society and economic challenges and also by ensuring the autonomy of artistic creation is one of the focuss of the society of the future." End of story. In the spirit of implementing a development-oriented cultural policy and implementing coalition commitments, the priorities are outlined. A new national programme for culture is needed for the period 2020-2027, which will set guidelines for the development of culture and art, public interest for the next 8 years, and an action plan which, through measures and objectives, will determine the development of specific cultural areas for 4 years. It will be necessary to prepare a media law, which will in the spirit of time be linked to new technologies and will not allow for the promotion of inequality and intolerance in the media and will ensure transparent production and distribution of media content in the Slovenian media landscape. The proposal of the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency cultural programmes of the Republic of Slovenia, which is one of the first measures in the Coalition Treaty, is a necessary measure to ensure long-term stable financing in culture, public institutions and NGOs and to preserve and protect cultural heritage. I am convinced that the cultural sector has also been in crisis because we no longer have a valid cultural euro law since 2014. Together, Slovenian culture has been richer for the entire period of validity of this law by €95 million. Without this law, Slovenian culture would be deprived of the same sum. The law, which is practically ready, will bring an additional 122 million and 600 000 Euros of additional funding to 7 programming sets of Slovenian culture between 2020 and 2026. The adoption of the Cultural Euro Act, as we popularly call it, is, in my firm belief, the basis for a new range of cultural activities. Among the priorities are the regulation of the situation of NGOs and self-employed in culture, the decentralisation of culture, de-de-barcation and the reform of tendering mechanisms, the preparation of a long-term plan for co-financing and new investments in cultural infrastructure, the care of Slovenian language and the regulation of the position of the book and its importance for our society. The project of international promotion of Slovenian cultural heritage will have to be continued. Here I am thinking mainly of the planned integration of heritage in Unescov by a representative list of the intangible cultural heritage of mankind, the UNESCO list of the world cultural and natural heritage and the sign of European heritage. There is great potential in inter-sectoral integration of culture with other spheres and spheres, such as the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, and so on. Mag. Zoran Poznic believes that, with the joint strengths of those working and creating in the field of culture and art, raising the resources of cultural and artistic images in his mandate will be more developmental, with more employment opportunities in this area, with a clear vision of media development, systematic regulation of the position of the overcast part of culture, both the non-governmental sector and the self-employed in culture and all other actors in culture, exploitation of the potential of cultural tourism and placement in the new financial perspectives of the European Union, and a more visible role in the start-up of individual economic sectors. By ensuring these measures and objectives, it is also counting on society not only to look at culture and art through the prism of the economy, but also to see in culture the essence of raising the quality of life that contributes to the development of our entire community. Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats fully supports the Mag. He's late. We are convinced that its guidelines for cultural development are ambitious enough to meet the needs of time. But it is up to us Members to enable Slovenian culture to better conditions and place it in the place that belongs to it. Good luck, Zoran Late!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented to us by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u46	One of the fundamental principles of our Constitution stipulates that the State is obliged to ensure the preservation of cultural heritage and to create opportunities for consistent civil and cultural development in Slovenia. Based on this assumption in the Modern Centre of Culture Party, we understand it as a basic national project and believe that it is also seen by other fellow Members and colleagues, citizens and citizens, and in particular the candidate for Minister of Culture of Mag. Zoran Poznań. His commitment to strengthening Slovenian culture and its heritage and all other parts of cultural policy is, on the basis of what has been heard so far, strong enough not to doubt that the candidate for culture would not perceive as an important driver of creativity and economic development throughout Slovenian cultural space. We wish that the results of the work of the new minister will soon show renewed, where there will be a different need, especially for the current needs of an adapted cultural policy. We urgently need a more radical overhaul of the cultural model, even though we have been able to hear from the previous minister that major shocks of the cultural model are not necessary, even though politicians and other actors in the field of cultural policy have come together a long time ago. In this important and challenging task, Mr Poznań is supported by the SMC Group and we expect that awareness of this will not dry up even after the performance of the function. At the same time, we must not miss out on the candidate's commitments in the preparation of a new national cultural programme, which has been written for too long. This year is the deadline for us to decide on this basic and strategic document in the National Assembly. Without a roof document, we are planning and taking all necessary and necessary measures in the cultural field. We must also place cultural policy more strategically in the implementation of policies at national and local level, and it is not important to conclude that the success of Slovenian culture in an international scale is already disproportionately greater than the success and visibility of our country in many other areas. The most valuable work is done by the cultural creators themselves. Of course, no one doubts their superiority, but the shortcomings of the current system are reflected in the dispersion and inadequacy of cultural promotion and the promotion of cultural tourism, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Culture. In any case, we must also stress that it has already been shown several times that successful pursuit of the objectives set cannot be achieved without the patient and close cooperation and dialogue not only between the ministries and relations between the Government and Parliament, but also with all the civil society concerned in the field of culture, which is extremely diverse and full of challenges and expectations. Of course, the basis for a successful work is first to get personal relations in your own home. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we expect the candidate to know and be able to carry out all of the above challenges and given substantive commitments in a consistent manner and to cooperate constructively with all stakeholders, in particular his colleagues and co-workers at the Ministry. We also expect the minister to be entrusted with a responsible, inclusive and excessive degree of patience. On these grounds, we are giving him support today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Zoran Poznic comes from an artistic profession. He graduated from the field of video and new media at the Academy of Fine Arts and Design in Ljubljana. At present, the Director of the Institute for Culture is Delavski dom Trbovlje, who took over in 2008. Under his leadership, Trubwell culture has entered a new era, created a new vision of the city through the Trbovlje Syntagmo New Media City, which combines the creative potentials of a larger and wider community and connects itself into global trends in the field of new media. The candidate has a lot of support for the local environment, which is very important because it comes from the region. In particular, mention shall be made of its operational capabilities and readiness for the continuous operation and upgrading of the existing one. He also has a hearing for working rights. On 4 February 2019, the candidate successfully presented himself to the Parliamentary Committee on Culture. The Committee delivered a positive opinion. Zoran Poznic as a candidate for the Minister of Culture also performed in all respects at the hearing in accordance with the basic programming guidelines of the Left, which we are working for. It also expressed its will and readiness with regard to the content of the coalition agreement in the field of cultural policy, at all its points. The main qualities of the candidate in our opinion are; for the first time that it comes from a culture, i.e. from an artistic profession; then it has long been active in the cultural sphere, it knows the situation; it comes from the region, it advocates the decentralisation of culture; it has great sensitivity for the non-governmental sector and the self-employed in culture; it is a trained organizer, an operationally capable and experienced practitioner and has a personal presence, it does not consent to elitism in culture. The candidate supports the functioning of NGOs in culture, non-institutional and independent cultural production. The tendering mechanisms for co-financing projects and programmes in culture need to be improved here. It is also necessary to reform the area of tendering mechanisms and the functioning of tendering commissions and to take into account the opinion of the National Council for Culture. The Coalition Treaty speaks of support for the development of the Slovenian language in the digital environment and here the candidate is well subdued. It also advocates measures in the field of record-keeping, documentation and preservation and digitisation of artistic heritage. The Coalition Agreement provides for the adoption of the Cultural Euro Act and it appears that the candidate clearly supports and plans to act in this area. The Coalition Treaty provides for the adoption of the MPK by 2020 and is also where the candidate has set a timetable for the adoption of the MPK by the end of 2020. A structured civil dialogue with NGOs in the field of culture is essential for the development of cultural policy and legislation. The candidate promises to establish mechanisms for civil dialogue. Finally, it is necessary to develop the definition of professional NGOs and amateur NGOs and to record the definition of professional NGOs in the umbrella legislation. Measures are needed to improve the social security of self-employed people in culture. In the 2019 balance, the Ministry of Culture did not provide for an increase in support for NGOs and civil society, although support for the development of NGOs is referred to as a priority in the coalition contract as in the NPK. Measures are needed to introduce a degree and progressive censorship for self-employed persons, regulate the area of systematisation of work injuries in the field of culture and occupational diseases, and benefit from work for artistic professions, such as playwrights and, above all, ballet players. Measures are needed to improve support measures for cultural workers, such as the conditions for the right to pay contributions to self-employed persons in culture from the budget, cultural allowance, artistic residences and so on. Measures in the field of cultural scholarship policy – i.e., scholarships should not be replaced in a generational way. The candidate advocates an increase in funding for libraries, the purchase of materials and information bases. For the purchase of library materials and the operation of libraries alone, the state is spending less and less money, which is unacceptable as this hinders development and access to knowledge. The issue of the construction of NUK 2 is extremely delicate. NUK’s shoulder building was designed for 270 thousand books, and now it holds more than 2.7 million units of various types of material. NUK 2 is planned since 1987. Additional measures are also needed to protect the Slovenian language in the wider cultural sphere in view of the invasive use of English in all aspects of life, including culture. Wealth and diversity of the Slovenian language must also be preserved. One key task that awaits the Minister of Culture is the new Media Act. This must include protection against an enemy speech that has spread to all extremes. It is the area of false news and hate speech in the media discourse and in public discourse. The problem is the poor practice of certain media and editorial policies, which violates the fundamental human right to information. Given the fabrication of content, ideology, the promotion of intolerance, false conscience, hate speech is essential to prevent the distribution of new frequencies to radio-fused media spreading hate speech and false news. Culture is not a market niche and an economic activity aimed at creating profits, so it cannot follow only economic interests. We believe that culture must be decentralised, while cultural policy must meet the needs of the entire population and must also be accessible to all social groups and all segments of the population in our society. We will not oppose the proposed candidate Zoran Poznia for Minister of Culture in the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u50	Your Honor! Slovenia is famous for its intertwining natural heritage and rich cultural heritage. Caring for culture and our cultural space is our duty and responsibility to future generations. That is why we need a sound cultural policy that will understand that the development of living cultural creativity is essential for Slovenian identity and national being. Culture also cannot be completely left to market logic, but it must be noble for our society. In this light, the Minister of Culture must also carry out his mission to realize that culture is not a cultural reserve, but a privileged area of creation, search, diversity and interplay, and to verify new ideas that are vital to society. He's a candidate for the Minister of Culture. Zoran Poznic takes over the state-owned ministry, which in this mandate appears to have already been in the past, but the public did not know about it at the outset, is already facing problems that do not confront this ministry. First of all, it is about regulating relations and creating better working conditions in this house, which is the first responsible and responsible for culture and cultural behaviour – a dialogue for responsibility, according to today's candidate, and thus we still agree in Novi Slovenija. If he can enforce this principle, then the ministry will also be able to work. We are a little afraid that only the dialogue groups he will appoint will not produce the desired result. It is awaiting the drafting of a bill on cultural euro, media law, national cultural programme for the next period and other numerous open issues. In New Slovenia, in the light of the economic use of funds, we note the urgent rewinding of the role and importance of certain cultural institutions co-financed by the State. Some cultural content has also been relatively well funded and promoted in the past period of the economic crisis, while others have been lagging behind, such as the protection of cultural heritage. The current understanding of public interest in culture is, in our view, too strongly linked to the content and institutions that are funding from the state budget and budgets of local communities. The Ministry's task is to draw up value criteria for the allocation of budgetary resources separating grains from weeds. However, the distribution of funds must be transparent, efficient, fair and I hope that we will not hear again about the various phone calls, how it is necessary to redirect funds from one place to another, which should be more important. We stress the great role of amateur cultural activities, which are increasingly dependent on sponsors and donors. We must not neglect their great role in preserving cultural heritage and laying the foundations of professional, professional culture. We also need to re-evaluate the city of the Slovenian language in public use, in the media and in the universities where the Slovenian language is being undermined by English. If we ask ourselves what is today's national culture, I fear that this answer is that we are returning our motherhood to the position of slaves and girl, but our first language, which has allowed us to become a country of our own. The language also develops constantly. It is influenced by other languages and should therefore be supported by language development tools. At his personal presentation to the Committee on Culture, Mr Poznits, a candidate for the Minister of Culture said that his primary task would be debarcation, simplification of procedures and responsible decision-making. In Novi Slovenija we hope and want to be held accountable for the conflicts of interest identified, as he was the Director of the Public Institute, who is running for budgetary resources and will be the Head of the Ministry of Culture, which will decide on their allocation. The Slovenians did not just legitimize their holiday of culture that other nations do not have. In New Slovenia, we want the ministry to continue and upgrade its work on this basis. We will not oppose the proposal of the candidate for Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u52	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished ministers, everyone's welcome! In view of the fact that my position is one of the last, given that we have heard a lot of repetition, I might miss the description and life path of the candidate, as well as some of the things that have been exposed to the Committee on Culture, and at first for a little joke, little to say for the sake of fact what was said at the last appointment of the Minister in this house, the new Minister of Cohesion, said to most of the members: “If the proposers, the party of the Social Democrats and the President of the Government, the first minister believes that the candidate is suitable, we will also give him a chance in our party, Alenka Bratušek, with the pleasure of supporting and giving him the opportunity.” This is what most of the members of the group said at the event at the time, which on the one hand little indicates evading responsibility, and on the other hand, it is true that when new candidates for ministers are appointed sometimes, what is normal, we do not know well enough about them and we find it difficult to comment on them. Otherwise, the culture of Alenka Bratusek is of exceptional importance. Culture is an extremely heterogeneous system that combines many different fields – books, cultural heritage, film, music, dance, visual and artistic art, language, intermedia fields, cultural and artistic education and so on. Despite the fact that each of them needs to be approached individually, the cultural field must be considered as a whole and an integrated system. Culture, according to numerous studies, is in fact one of the keys to the development of an open society and economic challenges, and also by ensuring the autonomy of artistic creation, it is one of the focuss of society in the future. About the Magi candidate. Zoran Poznič is important to us in particular the justification drawn up by the Cabinet of the President of the Government, the opinion of the President of the Government that this is a person whose work reflects the high managerial and professional competences demonstrated by many successful projects. His candidacy is justified by the Government's activity in identifying the ability to connect and synergize several different projects in the field of art and culture in the domestic and international environment and with long years of leadership experience, knowledge and competence. Among the exposed priorities that have been repeated many times, I would point out one that is very important to us at the Alenka Bratušek Party. In particular, we support the Minister's efforts to regulate himself properly and also to sanction hate speech within an appropriate framework. This has grown dramatically in recent years and has already had a negative impact on our society. In law, mostly in criminal law and otherwise, there is a well-known river that says that every violent act begins with a violent word. And tragic events in the middle of the last century certainly confirm this river. In the Alenka Bratušek Party, we will therefore be happy to insist on the established path set by the former Minister and to support the new Minister in the direction in this area, as well as in other areas that have been exposed. Finally, just a few words about the appointment of new ministers. A minority government or government, as usual in a proportional system, when made up by several parties, is understood in our party as a partnership; a partnership in which each of the parties assumes responsibility for an area; and this area leads to the existence of this government. In doing so, at least that is how I and our client understands this relationship, the parties decide to take over the areas in part according to the size, and in part depending on the expertise they have. The problems that all parties, younger and smaller parties and longer-term customers have are therefore understandable in the search for new ministers; they confirm my thesis, which I have repeatedly repeated here, that people, successful individuals, are increasingly difficult and difficult to decide on important state functions; and again, because of the discredits they have received before they enter public life. It seems that in this country we have decided on a culture of cleanliness where we are looking for people who, on the one hand, must have knowledge and competence, because otherwise it is difficult to propose them as ministers, but on the other hand they must be harmless. But all those who have or have already done something in their lives are certainly not blameless. That is why I want to look at it more than if someone has already made a mistake, of course I am not talking about crimes here, and so on, to look at it and to work towards the governance of the country, in the administration of the government, in the management of the most challenging social issues, to attract really high-quality, motivated individuals who could change things in a particular area for the better. I am certainly not saying that the concrete candidate is not such, but I would like to draw attention to the broader problem that we have experienced in recent years more and more when it is more important to us than competences and knowledge that a person is an unwritten letter in mature years and that he has not made any mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! On a proposal from the Social Democrats, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, proposed mag. Zoran Poznič for the new Minister of Culture. Let me begin by saying that we do not know the candidate in the Desus Group, but we trust the choice of the coalition partner of the Party of Social Democrats and the President of the Government. As we learned from the media and at the hearing on the parental committee, he's a mag. Zoran Poznic graduated from the Academy of Fine Arts and Design, the direction of sculpture; he mastered from new visual communications and media. Since 2008, he has been Director of the Public Institute for Culture of the Working House of Trbovlje, where he has reaped great success. With its help, Trbovlje is expected to become culturally recognised not only in Slovenia but also in Europe. Mag. Zoran Poznič is described as a good operative who, at the age of 60, enters politics for the first time. On Monday, the candidate for minister answered our questions at the Committee on Culture. He also presented some key priorities that he will address if his mandate is approved today. He therefore pointed out that by the end of this year, they would have adopted a new national cultural programme for the period 2020-2026, will also regulate the status of self-employed persons in culture and NGOs, and will have completed the preparation of the so-called Slovenian Cultural Euro Act. As a key point, he highlighted the drafting of media legislation and the work on limiting hate speech online. In the Desus Group, we like that you're a mag. Lately, he wants to cooperate with all stakeholders. We also support his desire to regulate relations and improve the working climate of the Ministry. It is precisely because of the ministry's relations that we are voting on a new minister today. We want the Minister to resolve conflicts with discretion and, as he points out, with dialogue, arguments and goodwill. Because he's a magician. The Ministry of Culture has designated the latter as one of the most nationalist; in the Desus Group we expect him to keep his promises and to work in the Ministry in a proactive and responsible manner. He certainly has a hard work ahead of him. In the Desus Group, we will support the candidate. Mag. Zoran Poznic, we wish you successful work and wise management of the Ministry of Culture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u56	It reminds me of a song by Joseph Haydn that says, "A autumn leaf, where are you going? They would have caught you." This is how we now choose ministers and lose them, day in and day out, and we don't know how long it's gonna take. Well, we are about to get one new Minister of Culture, which I hope will not be, as stated, his second priority is to end the hate speech, for which there is no definition of what it is. Even less, there is no chapter on hate speech in legal literature, but this is an invention that has come to us from Europe, first from America, where the end of this nonsense is still going on in Europe, and now it's growing in us. I think the Slovenian language should be taken care of. The minister said nothing about how he would take care of the Slovenian language; and after all, we hear nonsense in Parliament, as well as on official government pages when everyone speaks legislation. There's no law, it's basically a set of laws or laws, just like a bunch of bushes, but not thunder or what I know, something like that. The Slovenian language is what should be taken care of. The Lord's coming from the Rippers. For a good morning it is said – Matkurba, how are you? But now it's gonna be a hate speech, because you can't say that. Horrible. And that's going to be the most sanctioned thing and we're going to put it into law, because whoever says that, we're going to cut it off, given the customs that come from the migrant circles, first one finger, then the other finger, then the tongue. As far as it looks, one of us wants to bring it all together. Rumor has it that new media laws will have to be written. Yes, exactly, it will have to be written, but in this matter it will be necessary to examine all those stakeholders involved. For example, public institutions that work with state money, work with our money, transferred about 3 billion and a half euros abroad last year; and no one answers anything. So that we don't go too wide, let's look at some of the interesting things about how much money went out of Ljubljana's Radio Television Slovenia, the public service. Nearly EUR 600,000 went to Croatia, almost EUR 200,000 to France, but only around EUR 15 000 went to South Korea, although I don't know why the money went to South Korea, around a million were sent to Luxembourg from television, a net million euros, almost EUR 500 000 to the Netherlands, almost EUR 3 million 100,000 to Switzerland, even to Turkey over EUR 200 000, almost EUR 900,000 to the United Kingdom, and even to the United Arab Emirates you are emigrating exactly EUR 83,000 94. I want to know where these millions went and why. On the other hand, RTV Slovenia requires an increase in the subscription fee for the almost indigestible programme that we receive from them, except for a whole bunch of commercials falling in between. Sometimes RTV Slovenia had a good program. They had extremely good children's programs, documentary programs and the like. Today there is little of this devil and here should or should Mr Poznits make order. We have a whole series of non-governmental organizations that are gibberishing with some titles, what they are, including artistic, political ones, but I don't know what else they belong to under the intervention of the Ministry of Culture. Then one wonders whether we will continue to promote the breast-feeding of various animals and thus share various Prešeren prizes and other rewards; and if we give a lot of money for installations, as one artistic direction is now called. From the history of art, we know that Dadaism was found to be blind to artistic expression. We don't know Dadaism anymore, except in art history books. But we will introduce something like this into Slovenia. I miss the speech about the need to protect and buy out Slovenian cultural heritage. Nobody cares, nobody cares, let's just say there are fantastic collections in private that are purchased by foreign libraries. The American Congress Library buys out, the Germans buy out collections, Slovenian archives; we don't care, anyway, because the real thing, whether the Slovenians have what we have or the Slovenians, because we are Europeans anyway. We can only hear such nonsense in Slovenia; in France there are French first and then something else. In England, when the smarts got out of this European mess, there were English first, and then there was something else. The Germans are Germans, the Germans are directing everything together, including our government, which does not hope and can't resist that Nazi dictatorship. No, we'll move on. And what does it take to do? Freedom of speech must be prohibited. Freedom of speech is dangerous, they knew that in Yugoslavia, so that was the 133rd article on hate speech. But even in Yugoslavia, they overlooked that freedom of speech was above political pressure, and they put an end to it. We're putting this in a new way. You're not supposed to talk. And this is just the first step, the next step is that you won't have to think, because if you think wrong, the children will make you sad, because we have already put that in the legal acts of the Slovenian state. Children will be able to sting because we will have a priority in the law to introduce hate speech and we will fight against it. I would suggest that we then make another medal for the first-degree piece, a medal for the first-degree piece, with the order of the eagle's balls or something like that. Let's do this, let's go to absurdity, because maybe there's just an absurd possibility of saving this country. What we are doing is horrifying, and what we are doing in the field of culture is also terrifying. We will not oppose Mr Poznice, but we hope that some of his starting points will change without saying what he had to say, for the coalition demands that it be written about an enemy speech, even though it itself does not know what it is. I hope that there will be something good about culture, I hope that the money will go in the right direction, although I fear that, given the direction of the current coalition, it will go into private pockets more than in pockets where the emptiness and from which something good could come for the Slovenian nation and also for Europe more broadly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u58	Dear Members and Members! There's no Prime Minister. A few ministers are still here. Since the beginning of this coalition, surprises have been on the order of things. The impression we have is that the human resources pool is completely empty, because the ministerial team consists of people who have failed to work well in the past, who are practically a week away from having a new affair, or who are completely unknown people who are first in contact with politics and who have never worked in politics before. How, then, will they take the first day to work, but if they have to learn it first; and this teaching may take months, a year, or two. This situation is certainly also the result of negative selection, when capable people are removed and disabled, and forces average individuals who do not have ambitions, strategies; and do not know what needs to be done and who are smarter and more dressed than to prepare serious and necessary measures and organise work than it would be necessary. At least some do not do harm; many – for example, Minister Kolar Celarc or Anja Kopač Dark of the previous government – are recovering greatly; and the consequences of wrong decisions are being remedied today. The result of such staffing is that we are already changing the third minister of this government, and the forecasts are that there is something else on the ground that is bad for the functioning of the country and our future. One of them just stepped down, but it appears to be the cause of the disease. After the resignations of the ministers, there is a problem with the search for personnel, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec and the presidents of the coalition's parties barely find individuals to occupy ministerial posts; even more so, the candidates report themselves. You could say - it's not true, but it is. And then they actually become candidates for ministers. The only condition for this is that they are still part of the party that will propose them by the time they are appointed. A serious party with a long tradition, such as the Social Democrats, would be expected to have within its own species enough cases and capable people to propose them to such important and responsible places as the future of citizens and citizens depends on. But the feeling is that no one really believes that it will last for a very long time, that is, the current government, and probably serious and responsible people do not even decide or reject the offer. According to media information, Zoran Poznic has also self-declared and there is a whole range of self-proposed candidates on social networks who make fun of ministers' appointments. You are not doing yourself a good service with this policy, but you are even more attesting to people’s conviction that we are not taking it seriously together. Of course, a membership card is not a condition for a party to propose to a minister, but the former SD candidate for a cultural minister had to enter the SD before he was confirmed; also candidate Zoran Poznic. This seems a little frivolous for a serious client. You might say - join the SD and you will become a minister or a minister. The other problem is the co-workers, state secretaries with whom the Minister will work. He said that Secretary of State Tanja Kunaver, of whom we do not know much, said that she was a media expert, so she would most likely take over this area. There is, however, information that another State Secretary is supposed to be a journalist, Dejan Karb, who we know from some media affairs when Cardinal Rodet accused him of having a son. He was very active in the Patria affair, which turned out to be a construct, and the data on blocking the accounts of the businessman or independent journalist Dejan Karba were also rounded up. The question that is just being offered is also whether the appointment of Dejan Karba as State Secretary of the Prize for the Past has been done in a dirty press work that has defiled individuals. Dejan Karba is most likely a member of the Social Democrats, at least he has run for mayor of Ljutomer under the auspices of the SD. It's a failure. But it's nothing new. In government and government cabinets, there are a whole bunch of people who have been unsuccessful in the elections, and people have not recognized them as those who are supposed to occupy responsible positions in politics. But this is not an obstacle to the Prime Minister of the Government of Marjan Sarc. He evidently recognized them as successful despite the low support of the electorate and provided them with jobs, even though they have been doing gray hair for the past few months and the kind of hair I have been there, such as Peter Wilphan. To lead the Ministry of Culture you will appoint people who have never worked in politics, have no experience, obviously no visions, and even fewer working days, less than me, who are almost 20 years younger than the candidate for minister. And there's one more thing. Minister of Culture of your choice, Mr Zoran Poznic, with the institution led by Delavski dom Trbovlje, applied to the invitation of the Ministry of Culture. What do we want? A month ago, he didn't know he was going to be a culture minister. And since the Minister of Culture will be the Minister of Culture, I am confident that the Working House of Trbovlje will receive a 5.4 million-euro injection, especially because it is the only one reported from the Eastern region. There will be no conflict of interest, but tell me which commission will be appointed by Minister Poznic, hoping not to allocate funds to the Working House of Trbovlje. By the way, it is right to co-finance the activity of the Working House of Trbovlje, but I am concerned that in a year or two in the Tarč programme we will discuss which members of the SD were on the committee, how the selection took place, what happened with the funds. By then, Mr Poznits may no longer be Minister and will be returning to the Working House of Trbovlje. Now to the content. In his presentation, the candidate for the Minister of Culture announced, among other things, the debarcation of the entire field of culture, the regulation of the status of self-employed in culture, the adoption of the national programme for culture for the next period, the new law on cultural euro and the amendment of media law to limit hate speech. With regard to the latter, the latter acknowledged that, while it was difficult to establish criteria and to establish a clear boundary between hate speech and freedom of speech, changes to the law would not lead to a ban, but merely to regulation. He expressed his concern about the hate speech by saying that he did not want the media, especially the Internet, to cheat on us and manipulate us through so-called false news. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that every opinion is different, because every opinion is not an hate speech, but it is properly regulated by law. The criminal proceedings against the important representative of the church of Tadej Strehovac have just ended with an exoneration judgment. Instead of the courts dealing with bank robbery and economic crime, they will devote hours and hours to social media records. The wrong world, we might say; and then we are surprised that citizens and citizens do not trust the judiciary. The candidate for Minister of Culture is indeed from the quota of Social Democrats, but the Prime Minister is responsible for the successful work of the government, so that the ministers failed and flew away also the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Government. Therefore, the removal of problems in terms of — I have nothing — is not in place. In the end, it will be the result of your government and no one will be interested in where anyone came from. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the candidate for Minister Zoran Poznic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, to prepare only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nicely greeted! There's been a lot of talk about the candidate for minister, and I don't have much time, so I'm going to be very short. Things in the cultural field have gone a little wrong in recent years. Therefore, it is likely that there was also a resignation of the minister, who announced some changes. And not to repeat things, things happened that just happened. Cultural tourism is one of the sectors which are an opportunity for Slovenia; and I hope that the new minister will take this into account and start working on it. On the committee he promised the decentralisation of culture, which is necessary in Slovenia; and I very much welcome that. On my question about Maribor's cultural problems and investments in the library, the provincial museum, archives of cultural institutions, including UGM and what else, all these problems are known to him. He also showed his affection for solving matters because they are about 20 years old. And all this gives me hope that we will finally push the cultural institutions in Maribor from a dead spot, so I will also support the candidate for minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has only Bevk, to prepare Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, the candidate must be Minister of Magic. Zoran Poznic first gets the support of the National Assembly, and then he has the task of looking for two secretaries of state, or two secretaries of state, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finally confirms. As far as I am concerned, the statement in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group that he will be a candidate for State Secretary, journalist Karba, is not correct. This name appeared in the media as well as a number of others. I don't think it's right to point out a name in advance. This will be the job of the minister when he receives the support of the National Assembly and takes his place and begins his work. It's probably one of the first tasks to put together the narrowest team of coworkers to work and run the Ministry of Culture. When we discussed the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget for 2019, the culture was allocated a good EUR 30 million, but several amendments were made to the budget rebalancing to raise funds for cultural heritage, to rebuild cultural monuments. Indeed, in the 2019 cultural budget, the area of cultural heritage protection is highly undernourished and, of course, this area would need a lot more resources in terms of needs. Let me just give you one piece of information. For example, in the area of the protection of immovable cultural heritage, the Ministry is planning a selection of projects that have come to the tender for the project invitation to tender for the years 2019 to 2020 for the renewal and financing of cultural monuments of national and local importance. This call has been made for 185 applications, but only 19 % of all funding needs can be realised through the available funds available to the Ministry in the budget. This should be resolved by the Act on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture or, as it is commonly referred to as, cultural euro laws. At a presentation by the Committee on Culture, the Minister's candidate pointed out that this was his first task, that this law should first be supported by the Government and then sent by the Government to the National Assembly as soon as possible. And when this law, which is practically ready, comes to the National Assembly, I believe that we will also support Members and Members, given how this has been presented today in the positions of the parliamentary groups. Of the seven programming sets of this law, two programming sets are intended for the protection and restoration of immovable and movable cultural heritage. It is said that EUR 32 million is envisaged for the restoration of cultural and historical monuments, and EUR 5 million for the immovable heritage of this law, for the purchase of movable cultural heritage and art works of modern creators. The area of cultural heritage will be satisfactorily resolved by a new law if adopted in some way over the next period. As we say, we will be in the Group of Social Democrats for the Minister of Mags. Zorana Pozniča supports and will get all our votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to prepare Karla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u64	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! In four years I have already witnessed the fourth candidate for Minister of Culture in the Republic of Slovenia. I am also a member of the Committee on Culture. Perhaps today, when the President of the Government presented the candidate, and even when I listened attentively to the views of the parliamentary groups, we have most often heard that they do not know the current candidate, Mr Poznick. Most of the presentations said they trusted the Social Democrats to choose the best name. Of course, it did not happen many times in the Republic of Slovenia when ministers were looking for someone to answer. After a long period of time, one of the coalition parties came forward, and I also asked the candidate's hearing whether he was going to the Social Democrats to be a minister; whether he would be a minister in order to be a member of the Social Democrats. So I can be more understanding. In the previous term, this department was headed by the Minister from the Desus quota, and I must admit that she invested a great deal of effort in this area, which she was in charge of, but she did not have a hearing in the coalition. The chairman of the committee, the former Member of the Minister, has always teased the Minister. For so long, he guessed that she had come into the situation, that she could say that even the President of the Government was no longer trusted and was leaving. The next minister comes, I think, at the time, he must have joined or been a member before, of course he led a more peaceful culture policy, but somehow he held back until the end of his term of office. I must admit that when I listened to the new candidate for Minister at the hearing, he had some very determined tasks that convinced me that it was a positive culture; however, we always hear that there is a lot of mobile phones in this ministry. Because I come from an environment where there are many private businesses, where private owners employ about 30, 50, 100 or 200 people, of course I never hear about these employees, that someone in these companies is mobile. I also insist all the time that I am a member of the National Assembly, that there are many people in public administrations, at the Ministry who are doing good, who are doing more than they need to, and who, in my opinion, should also be paid more. We have a part of people who work moderately, the pile that is needed; however, a third party of people who have probably already studied this coming minister, according to their own words. And once he resists some kind of circle of people for the first time, we'll hear about the mobile again in the workplace. When I listened to the minister, there's one theory, and the other is practice. But today we are talking about a very important segment, this is culture in the Republic of Slovenia. We know that we are living in a time when our Slovenian language is being undermined. When we look at this from a distance, it does not seem to us, but Slovenian culture is slowly undermining and certainly no longer on solid foundations. We are all responsible for the future of our culture in the Republic of Slovenia, so I want to say that in the four years that we speak today or we will vote on the fourth Minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's a matter of concern. When the Social Democrats represented the minister, they also made it clear that there was more money for culture. I don't think it's always the most important thing. In a situation where we sometimes do not know; when the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing; and I am afraid, but I am not by nature blacksighted, given that I have listened to the candidate for a minister, I must admit that he was theoretically ready that soon, of course, to the detriment of Slovenian culture, we will speak or the President of the Government will soon be looking for a new cultural minister. I'm even afraid that's gonna happen this year. When one party seeks the cadre that it is then necessary for someone to report that it may be possible to help a segment, it seems very responsible that when a coalition is formed, at least 3 or 4 candidates are for each ministerial post and that the party or the President of the Government chooses the best in the first stage. If anything happens that someone resigns or has to leave, I do not think that in some serious party or in a serious coalition there should be a problem for the new candidate, for the one who runs this resort, in this case a culture. Culture, as I said before, loses every day. I think it is bad that it is bad for many who work for the good of Slovenian culture, that it is bad for all those who are very good experts in this ministry and do not have a clear leader. I think they're afraid in this case, too. First, it takes some time for this minister to get to know his closest associates. I think that we also need to be honest with each other about what will happen, so that politics will set up the narrowest co-workers that it will have to – whether it wants to or not – accept, work with them; but the question is, what is the outcome? When the minister gives up in a few months, he'll write two sentences to the Prime Minister that he can't do it anymore and that he's leaving. And who's losing? Lost Slovenian culture in this case. I think in several segments here the government is acting irresponsibly and working from day to day, from week to week, from month to month. This is not responsible for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I repeat that I will be more easily understood; in four years we have replaced, today we will vote for the fourth minister. If I divide by years, at least every year the Minister of Culture in the Republic of Slovenia is replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much. And last to the debate is Mrs Karla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u66	All present, welcome! My position is not so pessimistic. I'm more optimistic by nature, and I always say there's not such a high barrier that we couldn't get past it if we somehow set a positive. Mr. Magg's candidate. Zoran Poznič has spent his whole life working on culture and it is clear to him that culture is always in a subservient position, nourished, you always have to work in a way that is half-free, so expected. That's why filmmakers have problems, so different theatre institutions have problems, but one way to survive is to survive. And it's probably very difficult to approach and help. I have assessed the candidate's ability to have good operational capacity, because it is modern-day-oriented, has the capabilities of today's technology, as we say, the 21st century, and is equipped with digitisation, and all these apparatus and resources that we are operating with today are very well-known to him. I have seen from his presentation of his programme that he has drawn a great deal of funds for the societies with which he has worked; and I am represented by this candidate for a good candidate for the Minister of Culture. From all the proposals or programmes listed today, which he has drawn up and already made public, I have also asked him questions, namely, the preservation of cultural heritage. I have specifically identified myself in the Kropa area, where the Kropa Museum, which is falling apart, preserves cultural heritage and also the heritage of handicrafts, heritage of crafts, short operation of Slovenians in the area they worked. And it's also right that today's explorers know what they were doing there. Then I asked him how to approach the problem before the death of the Brežica Festival, which represents the top of Slovenian music culture; not only Slovenian, the exchange of Slovenian and all foreign cultures. I am also a musician myself after a basic study and I think it is good to devote a little more resources to this and that this will be preserved because this represents the peak of Slovenian culture. Besides, I was very sad when I got the news last year that Carmina Sloveniana died. We do have a lot of Slovenian recognized, good choirs, but Carmine Slovenica's operation does not represent just one assembly; and Karmina Šilec, who left because she simply did not see the solution to how to dig out of the financial situation. But if an extremely good artist has to work on how he'll get the money to work, then all his artistic content dies. If you don't, you can't live. And so unfortunately this issue is now in status quo. The Minister's candidate replied to me that he would make an effort to restore this, because this pyramid, the scheme of action of this High Council, was very well-directed. I would just say so; let the candidate be successful in obtaining funds for a better culture, in connecting with all ministries, and in addition to somehow raising the level, a higher level of cooperation with his employees at the Ministry of Culture, who certainly need some encouragement and more talking and perhaps more compromises to make them work easier. I guess we need to talk and talk more. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. No one, so I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a candidate for a minister in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby adjourn this agenda item and the 5th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.25 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 13.52 p.m. and resumed at 14.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u68	Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 14, 13, 16 and 15A items on the agenda. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposed decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with item 14, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2019-June 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, so we are deciding on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left in the section External Affairs and Defence. The Committee on Foreign Policy of the Amendment does not support the competent working body. On behalf of the parliamentary group or personal name? On behalf of the Left Group, Mrs Violeta Tomić applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Once again, I will try to convince you to support our amendment, because it is of utmost importance to ensure some common standards, because we are introducing certain provisions based on all our past commitments adopted by this national assembly and also on the principles of sustainable and responsible trade policy. We have a general view that Slovenia will strive to maintain the labour, agricultural and social standards of trade agreements and to protect the environment and respect the law of Slovenia and the European Union. I think there is no doubt that this must be accepted here, because if we remember how the CETA agreement was adopted, then we know that it is necessary to write these things down in a declaration. We know there was a temporary use after that. This temporary use can become permanent. In short, our amendment speaks of the fact that international trade should not in any way endanger, reduce or restrict environmental, social, health, infrastructure, cultural and labour standards. It speaks of the objective not only of the development of the countries of the centre but also of the cohesion development of all parts of the European Union and of the world with a view to creating new jobs, reducing the conditions of use, improving the quality of living and also improving the accessibility of all services to all European Union citizens. I think it is in the interest of Slovenia and the European Union to oppose all imposed mechanisms limiting the sovereignty of countries, because the ISDS or ICS mechanism sets up corporations and their legislation over the law of European countries. We must not allow corporations to do this to us and to enforce environmental, labour and other standards. I ask you to support this because this is legally unsustainable and politically unacceptable to allow corporations to rule our citizens and citizens of Europe. I think that here Slovenia must take a very active position in the fight for our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 66. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendment. We are now moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a declaration. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted on the competent working bodies, the proposal for a declaration would not be harmonised. We're moving to the vote. You want to explain your voice? On behalf of the Left Group, Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. In this case, when we offered several amendments to improve Slovenia's position with regard to the European Union and to represent our rights, you refused. I do not know how you could have rejected these things which are of such importance to the citizens of Slovenia. And we are fully committed to some corporations and the European Commission to decide about us. In this case, the Left simply cannot support this proposal for a declaration, because we are talking here all day about Europe having to go in a different direction. Europe will either be more democratic; or it will not. Either she'll be more social; or she won't. Or it'll be more environmental; or it won't. And in this direction, all of our amendments, which we have proposed here, have gone. The Prime Minister himself has pointed out that we also have false prophets who want less Europe; and less Europe, of course, is not good. It happened to us brexit, and we can have another exit if we do not finally reverse the trend and work for the citizens of Europe; not for the power center, for the corporations. During the economic crisis, money flow went from the periphery to the centres and from the poor to the rich. While we were tightening our belts, while we were pruning our pensions, wages, health care, education, when we cut down all public services, the number of multibillionaires doubled. And this is why the extreme right is being strengthened, because people in the European Union are dissatisfied. They feel cheated and they feel unheard of. With our amendment, we have tried at least a little to ensure Slovenia's more upright and more decisive position in the negotiations within the European Union. Unfortunately, we have failed; we cannot support such a declaration and guidance in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you for your position. Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I will vote in favour of the declaration. However, I remained in debt for an explanation, which I somehow failed to complete or merely defiled during the debate. The political orientation of the nuclear states is an important issue, but even more important is respect for our Constitution. And respect for our Constitution is also important within the European Union. And if we do that, then every declaration we accept is such that it corresponds to the Republic of Slovenia. And it will actually lead us to a greater principle in foreign policy and in the functioning of the European Union or through its foreign policy, rather than humility. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a decree establishing the Electronic Communications Council. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a decree. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is with the Mandate- voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of two candidates for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. On 22 February 2019, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that, for two seats, Mr Mir Prek and Dr Mark Pavli be elected to the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. I give the floor to Mrs Natashi Kovac, Secretary-General, Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a supplementary explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u75	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Republic of Slovenia, following the receipt of ten nominations for two Judges or a Judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg, forwarded the Government and the Council of Justice to the opinion in accordance with the law. The opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Council of Justice show that all candidates and candidates meet formal conditions and are also eligible candidates for a judge or a judge in the General Court. In doing so, the Council of Justice gave an opinion to which candidates, according to their professional references and interviews, give priority. After examining the nominations and opinions and following consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic forwarded two candidates to the National Assembly: Prof. Mark Pavlih and Mr Mir Prek. Both Mr Prek and Dr Pauli were judged by the Council of Justice as the most suitable and expert candidate for this function. Following consultations with the parliamentary groups, it was possible to assess that the candidates proposed enjoyed sufficient support for the election. Prof. Dr. Marko Pavliha, Doctor of Legal Sciences, is a long-standing professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Head of the Legal Department and a member of the Senate of the Faculty of Maritime and Transport. He was a Ph.D. at McGill Law School in Montreal, Law of the Sea. At the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport of the University of Ljubljana, he was Chairman of the Department of Maritime and Transport Law for many years. Since 2004, he has been a regular professor of economic, transport and insurance law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. He served as Minister of Transport in the 7th Slovenian Government. During the 2004-2008 term, he was also a member of the National Assembly and then returned to academic waters. Lecture at the Faculty of Maritime and Transport, Faculty of Law and Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana and at the Institute for International Maritime Law in Malta, and he also hosted prestigious universities, including Belgium and Australia. He is the author and co-author of 37 books and hundreds of scientific, professional and personal contributions in domestic and foreign publications. He was appointed an interpreter for French and English and worked regularly until 2003. Prof. Dr. Marko Pavliha has an extremely broad expertise, a number of diverse and long-standing professional and managerial experience, and it is therefore possible to assume that he will perform the entrusted task with the highest degree of expertise, care and knowledge in the event of an election. Mr. Miro Prek, a university-graduate lawyer with the name mag. European law and other legal sciences in the Faculty of Law, Economy and Finance of the University of Luxembourg is currently serving as a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg and seeking a new term of office. After nine years of work in the Government Law Service, he worked at the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg in 2004 as Head of the Section of Slovenian Linguistic Lawyers. Since 2006, he has served as Judge in the General Court of the European Union. At that time, he had the opportunity to judge in all types of cases before the court. He was a rapporteur in some of the most difficult cases of this court. On the basis of his great expertise and reputation, he was elected twice as Senate President by his fellow judges. First for the President of the Chamber of Three and then for the President of the Chamber of Five Judges. He actively uses English, French and German. He has extensive bibliography. He is the author or co-author of several books and manuals in the field of economic companies and economic law and many works in the European Union. Since 2013, in the framework of his Master's degree in Law, Economics and Finance, he has been presenting the subject of the European Union's Public Procurement Law. In the process of proposing candidates, the President of the Republic introduced public presentations in order to enable the public and decision makers to become directly aware of the achievements, qualifications and work of the candidates, as well as of the explanations given by candidates when concerns and reservations arise in their public nominations. Both candidates, Dr Pavliha and Mr Prek, presented themselves at a public presentation after their candidacy had already been submitted to the National Assembly and answered all the questions raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam Secretary-General, for your explanation. The proposal addressed the working body of the mother, a mandate-holder commission that informed us in writing. I also note that there are no applicants for discussion. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the vote on the proposal to elect two candidates for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Andreja Zabret, Mrs Monica Gregorčič and Mr Blaž Pavlin. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for such a commission? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, none against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Members and Members of the Parliament shall be given two votes by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state their name and surname. A vote shall be taken separately for each candidate by surrounding the word “for” or “against” on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the individual candidate proposed will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we come to a secret ballot, I draw attention to the decision of the second paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that, during a secret vote in the Chamber, persons who do not participate in the vote shall not have access. I therefore call on all representatives of the Government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2.55 p.m. and will continue until 15.10. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 3:30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.44 p.m. and resumed at 3:30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we continue our meeting. We continue with the suspension of the 16th paragraph, this is the proposal for the election of two candidates for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. I am now reading the minutes on the outcome of the vote on Mr Mir Prek's election as a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 8 March 2019. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered, 14 ballots were invalid, 64 were valid. 39 members voted against by 25 Members. Mr Miro Prek has not received a majority of the votes of all Members, so he is not elected as a candidate for judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. I am reading the following minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote on the election of Dr Mark Pavliha as a candidate for judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 8 March 2019. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered, 9 ballots were invalid, 69 were valid. There were 55 votes in favour, with 14 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Marko Pavliha, by a majority of the votes of all Members, is elected a candidate for Judgeship at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. Congratulations to Dr. Mark Pavlich on his election. And since the other candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts, new elections shall be held on the basis of new nominations. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mrs Klavdija Bercieri and Mrs Katarina Gabriel Muhič as a judge at the District Court in Ljubljana. I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Klemenčič, representative of the Council of Justice, to further explain the proposals. Here you go, Mrs. Alenka Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u78	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The District Court in Ljubljana is one of the most burdened courts in the country. In 2017, it was not controlled by criminal cases, the average duration of proceedings increased, and the number of pending cases increased. The already existing number of criminal judges in this court was not sufficient to resolve cases within a reasonable period of time, and in 2018 two additional seats were reduced, making the call for two new criminal judges necessary. In Ljubljana, of these two for the criminal area, 30 candidates applied for the seat of four district judges, of which six for the criminal area. Four candidates withdrew during the application procedure, one for the criminal area. The selection procedure covered the verification of compliance with the tendering conditions met by all candidates. He then carried out an assessment of the suitability of the candidates, taking into account the average of the assessments achieved at the pre-graduate study and the legal examination, the working experience and final opinion of the President of the Court; and, following interviews with all six candidates for the criminal field, he chose Katarina Gabriel Muhič and Klavdija Bercieri. Both selected candidates completed their studies at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, where they achieved a high average of ratings, they also achieved very good results at the legal examination. Both candidates also have long experience in criminal matters. Katarina Gabriel Muhič has completed 14 years of work experience, of which more than 11 years as an expert member of the Criminal Division of the District Court in Ljubljana. Since 2010, he has been assigned to a position of higher professional co-workers and works in the most difficult criminal cases. In addition, it has been involved in the work of the Office of the President of the Court since September 2017. Claudia Bercieri is also a candidate with more than ten years of work experience. After a legal examination in 2009, she has been employed since September of the same year as an expert at the Criminal Division of the District Court in Ljubljana. The position of the District Attorney at the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana took place in 2015, where she solves matters of economic crime and represents the Prosecutor's Office at the District Court of Ljubljana. It follows from the opinions of the President of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Head of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana and all the judges with whom the candidates cooperated, that they both demonstrate in their work a very high level of knowledge in the field of criminal law, that they carry out their work independently and responsibly and that they demonstrate the high capacity of written and oral expression, analytical thinking and structured work. In their interview with the members of the Council of Justice, the candidates showed great breadth and depth of expertise in the criminal field, rich work experience and communication skills, which convinced the Council of Justice that Katarina Gabriel Muhič and Klaudi Bertieri are the most suitable candidates for the polled judicial posts and therefore invited them to the State Assembly to elect them to serve as district judges in the District Court of Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u79	Your Honor, thank you for your further explanation. The proposal also addressed the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. First of all, we move to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Mrs Klaudia Bercieri to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are also moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Mrs Katarina Gabriel Muhač is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. With this we are moving to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Koper District Court. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mrs Iva Ferjančič Štekar as a judge at the district court in the District Court in Koper. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Klemenčič, representative of the Council of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u80	Mr President, once again, thank you for your word. The reasons for the invitation to tender for one district judge at the Koper District Court are also, in this case, the staff shortages in the section in 2018 due to the departure of two judges. The President of the Court, in order to ensure that matters are handled and cases resolved within a reasonable period of time by means of an annual working schedule, redeployed one district judge to the Economic Department in January 2018, which was then appointed as a district judge in that court. The resolution of cases under time standards can only be ensured by five judges, as worked in the department before the departure of two judges, and therefore human resources support is necessary for one more court seat. Six candidates applied for the invitation, with one district judge, as it was said, already appointed to the seat of the district court in the District Court in Cyprus on the basis of a second invitation to tender. Also in this invitation to tender, all the candidates met the formal tendering conditions. In the assessment of the eligibility of candidates, the Court of Justice also took into account the average of evaluations achieved at the pre-graduate study and at the legal examination, the working experience and the final opinion of the President of the Court. He invited all five candidates to the oral interview. After the selection procedure, he chose Ivo Ferjančič Štekar. Ms Iva Ferjančič Štekar graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in October 2006 and passed her legal exam in June 2009. During her studies at the Faculty of Law and at the law exam, she achieved a very high average of evaluations. Following her legal examination, she worked at the District Court in Postojna in September 2009, where she works as an expert in the executive, unfair and criminal field. He has 11 years of work completed in various legal areas, of which more than 8 years after his legal examination. She's been working as an expert in court all the time, so she knows the court's work very well. She has shown high skills and expertise in her work so far, as she has had excellent reviews of her work since 2011. The President's opinion specifically points out that the candidate meets the conditions for a district judge's seat due to high professional knowledge, rich work experience, average work performance and a positive attitude towards work. She has also done very well in an oral interview with the President of the Court and members of the Council of Justice, who have been persuaded by her sovereign performance and high level of expertise; therefore, the Council of Candidates Ivo Ferjančič Štekar proposes to the State Assembly to elect the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you for your complementary explanation. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Mrs Iva Ferjančič Štekar as a judge of the District Court in the Koper District Court. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing two members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. The referral of the decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which, pending the expiry of the term of office of the members appointed in the decision appointing the five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia of 14. 12. 2017, RTV Slovenia is appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the RTV Slovenia. Danilo Tomšič and Mr Borut Žagar. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 20. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Investigation Commission on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination of alleged money laundering in NKBM, d.d., the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for early election of Members to the 2018 National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission and the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of a proposal by the Party's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, for the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture of 25 February 2019; the proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for the appointment of the President of the Constitutional Commission of 26 February 2019; and the proposal by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre for the appointment of the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission of 27 February 2019. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the President of the Constitutional Commission mag. Branko Grims, Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Gregor Židan, is hereby appointed Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Mr Marko Bandelli. We're voting. Breakup. Mr. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President. I can't help it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u83	On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u84	On behalf of the Group of Members, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u85	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u86	I cannot help but overturn my proposal to appoint the President of the Constitutional Commission in particular. In the past or in parliamentary practice, the Constitutional Commission was chaired by the President of the National Assembly. It is probably one of the most important working bodies that deals with constitutional content or changes in one way or another. The fact that this seat belonged to the Slovenian Democratic Party is something that is an electoral combinatoric and a cut of seats in the National Assembly, which we have no influence on. The fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to Mr Branko Grimes is certainly a provocation. A person who does not lose a moment or an opportunity to undermine, in one way or another, the many rights enshrined in this constitution when he clearly and very directly criticises or despises the very vulnerable groups that the Constitution protects, but simply cannot be president or lead such committees. We have experienced something like this already today, probably when a number of women were destroyed on March 8th by their intervention in their position to deal with the declaration. Of course, we will not support this proposal in Levika. We regret the others in this package, but this conclusion is, once again, very likely provocation. If he's not a provocation, but at least he's very inappropriate, so we can't support him in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you for your position. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 11. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of a proposal from the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca of 6 March 2019. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mr Igor Peček as President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 15th A item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a candidate for a Minister of Culture. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Mag. Zoran Poznań. We vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 19. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm guessing he's a mag. Zoran Poznice is appointed Minister of Culture. May I have the newly appointed Minister of Mags, please? Zoran Poznič to join us and in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia swears before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u88	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-08-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u89	I congratulate the Prime Minister on his appointment and wish him success in his duties! Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 5th meeting of the National Assembly.
