ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Jani Prednik, Violeta Tomić, Luka Mesec, Franc Jurša, Maša Kociper until 13.30, Iva Dimic, Jožef Horvat, Jan Mahnic, Nada Brinovšek, Lidija Divac Mirnik from 16.30 p.m. and Aljaž Kovacič from 16.30 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council to the 8th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Once again a nice greeting to all present! By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to the agenda of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 8 April 2019, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the voting devices. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 7th meeting of the National Assembly is set. So we're going to move on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 42 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition, the questions raised by the Levica Group and the question raised by members of the ruling coalition will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, apologised for today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to parliamentary questions. The first five questions will be answered by Prime Minister Marjan Sarec. The question of the mission will be asked first by Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister, I think you're a smart man, so I don't understand how you might have possessed certain coalition members who are demanding a change in the international treaty. I also do not understand how your government and your so-called legal experts, especially those who once recruited in Šentjur in 1994-1996 for a network that is a classic pyramid system, today talking about cleanliness and cleanliness, how these people did not tell you that changing the term from the word “return” to “joining” of the Primorska homeland is actually a violation of an international treaty. The International Treaty, which provides for this – the return, was signed in Paris on 10 February 1947. The first part of the territorial regulations, Section 1, and then Section 4, in Article 11, accurately states that Primorska was returned to Yugoslavia. These are documents on SFRJ's foreign policy, 1947, first book. I don't know, maybe our famous lawyers who used to do network don't know this book. It would make sense for us to read it. If they are talking about the term or the Pacta sunt servand, they should take this into account. Why do they not take this into account when it comes to the interests of Slovenia? But when something else is bad for Slovenia, they refer to these things. I must say that what the coalition Members want to do now, and worse still, the government supports this criminal act, reminds us of Anschluss, which Hitler did in 1938 when he joined Austria. And when the war was over, Austria could have gone back to its territorial unit. I do not understand how our lawyers, i.e. lawyers, do not understand that the Italians are doing very well and that in this case the Italians will be able to demand over time what was connected to Yugoslavia back. That's why I'm asking you: Will you? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u3	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Messengers and Members! Thank you, Mr. Jelinčič, for this question. First of all, the fact is that this is a bill of sale. This law was not proposed by the Government. The Member States proposed the law, as it already says in its name. If you ask me in my personal opinion, if I understand correctly, you want my personal opinion, it is my personal opinion that we should stop dealing with the names of the holidays, but let us know what the holidays mark and let us continue to hang the Slovenian flag on these holidays, even if it is not part of the holidays. Unfortunately, I have the impression that many Slovenians don't even know about this holiday because it's not a day off. If we wanted to bring the Slovenian people together in Prekmurje and the return of Primorska to the homeland, then I would suggest them to work on a day off. We have another day, which is not part of the day off, namely, the Master's holiday, the accession of Styria. As far as I'm concerned, it would be the most appropriate expression for me personally to unite the nation. That is to say the one who had been under Italy for years before, under fascism, and the one who lived in Slovenia, because we know where the Rapal border was. So for me, the most appropriate term would be to unite the coastal nation with the native nation, the Slovenian nation. I see no need, no personal opinion, no government opinion, no need for the holiday to be renamed at this pre-election time. I also got a lot of letters from the Primors who oppose it, and I got some letters that are for it, but I don't see a major change. I'd be more supportive that it's a day off and that we're working harder to raise awareness of what this holiday means. If you support Members and Members of Parliament this law to change the name, I will also respect that. But I don't see any significant movement here until we as a nation are aware of what consciousness is, what home country is, when we don't have in Slovenia even those who once compact with these, for the second time compact with others, for the third time with others just to attack domestic authorities. You know, because this government can fall in two months, but it will no longer be, but irreparable damage to such acts by Slovenia has been done. Instead of acting unitedly, as the Croatians know, as the Italians know, we have been listening for a week to how ugly we are, to that ugly, to that, but we have not said anything but that we are a sovereign state and that we do not approve of certain things. This does not mean any aggravation; this does not mean any state of emergency; this does not mean any such or other action. It means nothing more and nothing less than telling who we are, what we are, and what we represent. If I do. If this law is passed, of course there will be no disaster. But it seems to me that we must work more especially on raising awareness of what this holiday means. Above all, it seems to me to adopt such laws recklessly before the elections. This is my personal opinion this time because the government has not proposed this holiday change. For me, therefore, the term “nation union” would be most appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much. I agree when you're talking about consciousness. However, it is necessary to know that this parliamentary law has been supported by the government. The document says the government supports the law. And that's what's wrong. It's not just a name. It is a term that specifies exactly the status of the coastal country, whether it has been taken from the Italians or has been returned to us. Here some Italian-oriented people want to change that. The Italians know very clearly what they are doing and support such intentions on our side. At times, it has been called traitors, and today it is also called traitors to those who work for the benefit of the neighbouring country. You were wrong about Styria. You said it was about joining Styria. Styria was divided into World War I. The adoption of this law would constitute a violation of international law. Perhaps it would be good for some people to be interested in getting some additional education, perhaps some of the government circles, to overlook such things and see where that hole in knowledge is. And these holes in knowledge are very big. Or they can go back there and continue to do a commercial for the network. It is important to be aware that the Italians support the amendment of this term, and this is bad for our country, so I hope that the Government will withdraw from supporting this law, even if it is merely a formality.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, would you like to respond? No, no, no. This concludes the first question. You will ask Dr. Ange Logar a second question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you, President. On Friday we had a very interesting debate on the European Union Affairs Committee with Slovenian MEPs. The debate lasted 6 hours, especially because it was found that many, especially the coalition Member, do not separate the powers of the European Parliament, the Slovenian Parliament and the Slovenian Government. From this point of view, it is fortunate that two more years before the Slovenian Presidency will be able to acquire these necessary knowledge. Many Members, including the coalition, asked questions about the vision and priority of Slovenia, and I asked the MEP myself. But given that you, Mr Sarec, will have a pair of years' worth of scissors and a canvas of the European future in your hands, I think you are the right addressee for this issue. When you refused to perform in the European Parliament, you basically reinstated us as your vision of the future of the European Union during this crucial period. We all agree on this, however, that Europe is in a crucial period. Let me just mention that on Friday's debate there were also a number of criticisms about your refusal to speak before the European Parliament. Borut Shuklje, an international consultant for Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans, recently wrote this, citing: "Croatia intends to use the time of its Presidency of the European Union to report on problems in regulating its border issues." Let me just say that Croatia holds the presidency in the first half of 2020, so we will inherit Croatia a year later. Given that you have recently been left by the foreign policy adviser, the only truly experienced diplomat in your cabinet, I wonder whether it is now the last time, the time to hear your vision of the development priority of the European Union and Slovenia in it and how we will pursue the interests, as you said before, of the home country in the European Parliament. You certainly have plenty of time, considering that the month-to-month agenda is coming to the National Assembly. Perhaps, I hope you are discussing the European Union's priority. On Friday, someone at the OSCE meeting stressed that if we are to start or develop something at the level of the European Union, we first need visions of the development of the European Union. Mr. Sarec, my question: So what is your vision of the development of the European Union? What are the key challenges ahead of us and what priorities will Slovenia take in this context? I ask for a substantive response, with specific tasks that you intend to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr Member, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you very much! Well, as far as foreign policy or foreign policy advisors are concerned, don't worry. As you know, we have already appointed a secretary of state for this field of foreign policy last week, so I see no problems here. Madam is an expert, the lady has dealt with these matters long ago and there will be no problem here. As far as the vision of the European Union is concerned, first they are at the door of the European elections. Following these European elections, new people will be placed in key positions, saying Presidency of the European Council, then Presidency of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and so on. I must say, we can't be pleased with the outgoing commission. If you mentioned that Croatia will represent its irregular borders with neighbouring countries, I am pleased that Croatia has no borders with any neighbour other than Hungary. We have tried to resolve this through arbitration in a European legal form, and they have also rejected it. In short, I am pleased that Europe will be able to present these problems. Secondly, I would like the new European Commission to put it back on the enlargement table, the Western Balkans. We know it's a pretty tough committee right now. This Commission has already said at the outset that there will be no further enlargement, and I expect further development here. We will also have a summit in Berlin on the Western Balkans on 29 April, convened by Chancellor Merklov and President Macron, where there will be countries wishing to join the European Union and Croatia and Slovenia. The Commission has to be more active in the rule of law, which has not been done so far, but has been looking more closely at customer preferences. This is not a coincidence, since the three key positions are occupied by the CFSP Group. When Mr Junker said he wouldn't take sides, no one asked him to. He should stand up for the rule of law and say that the courts should be respected. We now have a case before the European Court of Justice, and we will see what the result will be there. However, I would like the next five-year term not to revolve around one topic again, as it is now a long time around brexit. So, here are climate change, here is digitisation, then free movement of people, goods and services, then also the main problem of the European Union at this point is that somehow the whole European Union is lagging behind large areas, that we have a lot of unstable areas. Unfortunately, one is also potentially within Europe, not the European Union, but Europe, according to the Balkans. We have a lot of questions ahead of us. I believe that the next term will respect the rule of law, that it will also respect solidarity, that it will also respect equality, and that we must go in this direction. Slovenia will prepare a set of files to be dealt with under our presidency. The working group is already working on this. Until then, a lot can change. Last but not least, this government could be gone by then. All of this must be taken into account when we look ahead. The first task is for the next European Commission to be less political, more neutral and to take a closer look at the needs of small countries. It's a basic wish. Of course, Slovenia will not be a single problem, it is said that only the border with Croatia will be put on the table all the time. There we will monitor and wait for implementation, because the court [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you, President. Mr. Sharpe, you haven't answered a single question. You didn't say anything about a vision. I don't care what Junker says, I don't care what the future European Commission will be like, I don't care what Croatia does. I'm asking you honestly. 13 years ago, I myself participated in the preparation of the Presidency, and we were about this stage. I must say that every day in the Government we discussed the content that we will represent at European Union level. I ask you because there are many key challenges facing the European Union and the public does not know practically one of your views on the key issues facing the European Union. Look, you don't have to have the fears you had before the European Parliament's performance in order to, say, be an empty hall. We're all here. It's full of halls. You don't have to worry about the language, you speak Slovenian, you need to speak Slovenian. Last but not least, you cannot say that you will be told that this is a political speech because the opposition Member has set you this topic. Nevertheless, you have not answered me about any vision to be represented by Slovenia at European Union level. When I looked for your statements on the vision of the European Union, this came as far as possible, I quote: "We believe that Europe is a good project, but we need radical changes." But admit it, Mr. Sarec, this is a hollow. What changes, in which direction, will Slovenia take in all of this? Or this: “We want a Europe of solidarity, an effective Europe and a Europe led by competent people with new thinking patterns.” Who do you think these new people are with new patterns of thinking? Are these Mr. Erjavec, Cerar, Bratusek, you, Luka Moon, Theresa May, Salvini? What are these new patterns of thinking that will bring Europe forward? These are the key issues that are before the European Union and which concern all of us, given that Slovenia will once again stress, the whole of Slovenia, not the LMŠ, the whole of Slovenia has taken over the exercise of the European Union and how important it is how we will lead this great European Union through the cores that are being pointed out in the future. Thanks for the answer. The contents, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u14	Mr. Logar, there's nothing to be picker and cynical about. You're contradictory. On the one hand, you say that you are interested in the vision and where Europe will go, and on the other hand you say that you are not interested in the European Commission, that you are not interested in who will be there, but I think that much depends on who runs the European Commission and who runs the European institutions in general. Above all, what will be the outcome of the elections is also important. If there are people in key positions who have a vision for the future, a Europe without the shoes of some old practices, without the shoesing of some difficulties or not knowing what else, there is an essential difference, as if we have such people. Today we have the President of the European Parliament, for example, following such practices. And there's no other way to find him. Therefore, it is certainly not irrelevant who runs the European institutions. The fact that you talked about it every day in the government, I don't think you're going to convince me about it, but I'm not that green. I don't really have as much time in state policy as you do, but that's a little demagogic talk. Moreover, relations with Croatia, if I come back again, will still be dark all the time. Last but not least, your government then sent special forces to the Hotiza border because you keep saying that we have bad relations, that we are now fighting Slovenia with all our neighbors. Your government sent special forces back then, I remember. So the set of these is pretty wide. On specific priorities, but we agree, this moment is impossible to talk about, because by the second half of 2021 a lot more will happen. You can laugh, because [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, of course, because it's normal for you. Laughing is welcome and you can laugh, I don't blame you. But I speak the way things actually do. It all depends on the European elections and what the result will be, whether we will get to the key positions of the people who will lead this Europe in this direction, as we wish, with the rule of law and other matters that I have already listed in the first part of the response. That's the point. But if you're laughing, you can laugh out loud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ange Logar, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you, President. There's something I agree with Mr. Shartz. He said that's how it works. Here, they're standing right there. And that's the problem. I was not demagogous about the fact that in 2006, 2007, 2008 and even earlier, the government was actively preparing for the presidency practically every day. Ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, who led the wider working group to prepare for the presidency. Ask her, and you will see how active the debates took place. And I am sorry, Mr Prime Minister, that the vision of the European Union does not depend on how you will react to the European elections. She's not addicted. The vision of the European Union depends on how detailed the plan is, whether we know what are the key challenges ahead of us to draw up a Presidency work programme on this basis. Take a look at the example of the UK presidency in 2005, which, in a half-year period, brought the Telecommunications Giants' Data Conservation Directive out of the idea of a legislative proposal. Yeah, but they knew what they wanted. I wanted to hear from you today what you're going to do, what are the key challenges you see ahead of you as Prime Minister. You've got plenty of time, like I said. There are no legislative proposals in the National Assembly, so I wonder what you're using your time for. Just performing in dog processes is probably not the reason you're here. Today is the time to discuss not only at home what we will change, but also what we will change on the European package. Last but not least, your Member Mr Beatil asked the European Parliament on Friday how they see the vision of the European Union. So let him know what your vision of the development of the European Union is. I think it is a necessity – we have two more years before the presidency – to hold this debate here in the National Assembly, that at least we will show the Government what is what the Government should represent during the second half of 2021, if the Government does not have any plan and ideas at this time, what priorities Slovenia will represent during the Presidency. At that time, a clear plan must be drawn up which documents at European Commission level will come into procedure, regardless of who will be the head of the European Commission, who will be at the head of the European Council and who will sit in the European Parliament by name. But the Presidency can decide: we will encourage you, we will not, we will leave you in awe. That's what I wanted to hear from you today. I think that the Slovenian Parliament must hold a debate on this issue. I therefore propose that we vote on this procedural proposal to hold a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your proposal. We will vote tomorrow in the framework of the vote. With that word you get Mr. Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u18	Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Respectable all gathered on the balcony! Carrots deserve a lot of money. Not yesterday, not today, they deserve it yesterday. I come from Lower Savinja Valley, where there has been a lot of excitement recently over the construction of a fast road to Velenje. The Joint Civil Initiatives, mayors, many experts and residents of the Lower Savinja Valley point out that the planned route of construction with connections to Šentrupert is longer, more than €200 million more expensive, while destroying the best agricultural land and evicting 150 people, and it is still inefficient for transport. This is also pointed out by the mayors of Savinja region, not Savina Valley, but by the mayors of Savinja region. I have in my hands a document signed by the mayors and sent to the previous Prime Minister calling on the competent state authorities to pursue such a project of the third development axis, which is based on the spatial development strategy of Slovenia and is in line with the transport development strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. The route with connection to Šentrupert is not in line with the spatial development strategy because it does not connect the regional centres of Velenje and Celje. It is also not in line with the development strategy, as it introduces a new transport corridor instead of preserving the old one. The mayors also call for the project to be as cost-effective as possible with the use of investment money and stress, and also call for it to be placed in a sustainable environment with as little environmental damage as possible, impact on cultural landscape and agricultural land. Route F22 is everything before that. The construction of a fast road is extremely important for the inhabitants and respected inhabitants of Koroška and Velenja, who have really been waiting for it for too long. Let me make a point here. We want a road for the Korosks, not for the construction barons. Just because the Koros need the road right away, I demand that the government listen to our arguments. Dear Prime Minister, since none of the competent three ministers attended the field meeting on Friday, I must also address you. I know I'm really aware that it's not your fault, but you're the Prime Minister. That's why I want to know: What is your position regarding the construction of a fast road through Savinja Valley along the chosen route F2 and what are the reasons why a more cost-effective and environmentally acceptable route with connection to Arja village is not chosen, especially the route that will be built in a substantial, substantially shorter time? As President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, how will you ensure that the project of the third development axis will be carried out transparently, rationally, environmentally acceptable and in favour of the citizens, the inhabitants who live there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you so much for asking. I agree that the project must be built in a transparent, environmentally acceptable and beneficial way for citizens. We all agree with that. However, we have also witnessed too many civil initiatives. Sometimes they have good intentions, sometimes they have different intentions. And that's the way it is on these routes -- we'd all have a road, just not past them. Everyone would have a different infrastructure, just not past them again. Let us remember the second track project, which has passed two referendums, today we are fighting for a loan from the European Investment Bank and so on. Each such investment raises a number of questions. It is right that we are talking about an exchange of views, but I point out that this route, which is now envisaged, has been chosen by long, painful procedures. The route across the Arje village would probably be more acceptable in this place, but ecologically it does not solve matters further towards Slovenj Gradc. So, no route will be perfect. All the options that have been assessed that have been reviewed have been assessed from every possible point of view. We now have a constitutional assessment of two municipalities. There are still many problems on this path on this third development axis. But I will say this: if we want to really start building this third development axis, that we will really wait for the opening, then we have to stop these endless shifts here and there and changing routes and I don't know what. If we change the route again, others will find themselves who won't like this route. Implementation activities are being stepped up, a lot of work is being done. But we have another big problem, which is just financing or financial construction. As with all Slovenian projects, this is a constant practice. But I think the Ministry's working on it a lot. This third development axis, if we don't start building it quickly and then finish it, will stagnate the economy and all the other things. So I suggest from experience, I do have some of them that we stop chasing around the routes all the time and start working. That would be the most important thing. If we go back into change, this will prolong matters, and then I fear that all countries will indeed overtake us through these corridors we have, and we always stress our favourable geostrategic position. We're late for a lot of things. We're late for the caravan tunnel. We're late for other things. But not because we wouldn't work. We are late for reasons such as these and others, which are always present in these investments. If someone from a civil initiative openly says at a meeting that the Italians will ask if they can take the project, then, I don't know, we're back there, just like we were on a few questions before. So I suggest we stick to this route and start working as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u22	I understand that there are many civil initiatives, however, it is the duty of the State to build this road as quickly and as quickly as possible and as cheaply as possible and stop lying to the Koros. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, in the Lower Savina Valley, we ask why the state wants to build a fast road to Velenje, where construction itself will last six years, it will cost more than 200 million euros, destroy 119 hectares of the best agricultural land, demolish 147 buildings, 43 of which are residential buildings, build three tunnels and 11 viaducts, over 800 meters and over 30 meters high, while building another five kilometres of anti-group fences and not least resettling 40 families or 150 inhabitants, instead of building a fast road with the Arja village, which would be built in just a year and a half. It would cost at least EUR 200 million less, destroy 13 hectares of worse agricultural land, relocate or demolish at least 3 houses, build only one viaduct and no tunnel. With a much smarter choice, Koroška would make it to the fast road and with the rest of the money would restore our destroyed, catastrophically bad roads. I'm really worried we haven't learned anything from history. We must not allow the north part of the third development axis to be a new motorway TES 6. I therefore stress once again: we want a road for Korosci, not for the construction barons. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, among other things, you have written in your coalition contract: “With the development of environmental and spatial legislation we will ensure that Slovenia is friendly to both owners, residents and tourists.” I'm running out of time to read everything. That's why I'm turning to you and I'm counting on you to finally take over a healthy farmer's mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you. Like I said. If we go back to changing routes and don't know what procedures, then this road won't be for long. That's not what any of us want. Of course, I can personally engage and recheck everything, that's no problem. But we all want the construction to start as soon as possible. This is what we would like to achieve because any change causes the project to continue for a series of years. None of us want that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The Member of Parliament shall have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much for last time. For Koroška, it is crucial when construction will begin if six years of route from Šentrupert or route from Arja village, which would be built in a year and a half. What's better? However, the DPN will not have to change so badly because it will go straight down the existing transport corridor. Look at this, and look at this. Some political parties have had a decisive impact on life in this country for the past 10 years, and their ministers also have a scissors and a canvas in their hands and so on the opportunity and responsibility to resolve the matter. But instead of actions and solutions, they are filled with empty-mouthed promises. On the one hand they yell loudly, “We want the road” and on the other hand they stand for a road that will be built for six years. Make a road that will be built in a year and a half. The crustaceans deserve it. I feel sorry for people, they really feel sorry for me. Because of your decisions, they live in uncertainty because of their busy route, the purpose of which is to steal tax money: to build expensive, to build more expensive, to build the most expensive. Who's gonna maintain all these tunnels and keep the infrastructure? I am even more concerned about the attitude towards the inhabitants of Koroška, which could, if it were the interest of the State, as I have already mentioned many times, have been given a road in a year and a half and not in six years. They do not deserve this, nor do the inhabitants of the Lower Savina Valley, from which the country also makes fools. In accordance with the rules of procedure, I would like to see the worth of these 150 people, 119 hectares of agricultural land, and, last but not least, 200 million euros on this subject to be discussed at one of the next meetings. Allow me a moment to conclude. I've got a carrot in my heart. We want a road for the Koros and not for the construction barons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your procedural proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. This brings us to the fourth question for the President of the Government. Lord Miha Kordish, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u28	President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, at the last regular session, I asked you a question about improving the situation of pensioners and pensioners, how we will achieve an agreement between the Government and the Left on the pension raise, on how to break with the wrong policy of privatising home for the elderly through concessions already shown in the much higher supply prices in private homes. No answers were given to the pensioner and the pensioner. You said that you would reply in writing and that we had not received a written reply until today. Since a given word should have some effect, I expect, Mr Sarec, that the written answer will come today. But even more so than privatisation in the area of home for older people, the negative effects of privatisation are shown in the field of public health, in particular to lower concessions and commercial insurance through supplementary health insurance. The public health activists, however, take advantage of the hardships of family doctors, who are underworked, burned, and their wages are not really anything special. I repeat that it will be clear that their hardship is exploiting some 50, perhaps 100 best paid doctors who have acquired medical organizations and unions, and who are using their power to try to further privatize health care, from which they will benefit only their wallets. Among other things, this is evidenced by an e-mail from the President of the Igor Mužević Trade Union from October 2017, in which he advises his colleagues on how to resign in a healthcare home and get a job through espionage or partoy. The aim is to increase personal income first by tax optimisation, because Espe is cheaper than regular employment, and then by negotiating where health homes without doctors these same doctors can blackmail at all costs. Well, this is a scenario that we can monitor right now and that turns public health into business and health into goods. The reason for this last action is the latest amendment to the Health Activity Act 2017. In the agreement between the Government and the Left for 2019, we agreed that we would resolve this together, which we should have done at this meeting, and unfortunately the decision has already moved twice. So, Mr. Sharpe, I ask you: Will you personally advocate the creation of a new Health Act that will cover all the holes that allow the privatisation of the public, solidarity health system at this moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you so much for asking. Mr Kordish, of course, we do not agree in many ways, we do not actually agree in most things, but here I have to agree to some extent with you, especially when you mentioned this post of Mr Muževič. I was also surprised because then I find it difficult to believe in the well-intention of some leaders in the union. First of all, let me make it clear that I'm separating the union representatives from the doctors. Just like in any other industry. We can't exactly compare things here. It is true, however, that a single sentence has been added to the Health Activity Act in the previous term, which is very important, namely Article 53, paragraph 7, which is precisely the article that makes it possible to conclude such contracts. I must also make it clear, because concepts are getting confused – concessional health is within the public health system. Concession does not mean pure privacy and the concessionaire provides public health services. Clean people are something else. We will strive to introduce this amendment into this law, because it is obvious that what is happening now is on the basis of this. I'm not so worried about privatisation, but I'm more concerned about how waiting times are going to go down, how patients are going to have as much treatment as they deserve, and I'm not an opponent in private health. There has to be a private health care system. However, private health care does not make it accessible to all. And here's the problem. But I'd say it's not all that bad. During the six months, from October to March, waiting species also declined slightly. The total number of waiting was reduced by 40 000 180 and 24% respectively. Of these, the number waiting for the first specialist reviews decreased by more than 15 thousand 600 and a fifth. However, the number of people waiting for therapeutic and diagnostic interventions decreased by 24 thousand 500 or more. During the same period, i.e. from October to March, the total number of patients waiting over the allowable waiting period decreased by 20 thousand 60 patients and by 29 %. Of these, the number waiting for the first specialist reviews decreased by 5,000 750 and 17% respectively. The number of pending therapeutic and diagnostic interventions decreased by 40%, namely 14 000 310. This means that waiting species are still falling, not as much as everyone would like to, but some progress has been made. As far as privatisation is concerned, of course we oppose it and we will continue to invest in public health. And we're for this article to change. We have already talked about this with the previous minister, because this article obviously allows certain trade union activities that are not in place right now. We will have a dialogue with the unions, or the minister is already leading it, so we agree that many doctors are overloaded and that they are problems, but with some threats and some, I don't know what, by taking pictures of everything black and so on we won't get far. So each one of us has to do his job.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, President, and thank you for your answer, Mr Sarec. What the health system is, what the health system is not in the public good, in the public interest, about it, Mr Sarec, we disagree. However, we obviously agree at least that these last privatisation provisions, which have crept into the Health Act, need to be corrected. The novelty of the Health Activity Act launched in Levica began at the beginning of the year. But because of the lack of political will within the National Assembly, these changes are being addressed, and they have already been postponed twice. Given that you, Mr Sarec, have spoken in favour of closing these privatisation holes in the Health Act, we will hold you to your word in Levica. We hope that the parliamentary procedure will be carried out within the next month and this privatisation hole will be shielded until the May regular meeting of the National Assembly. As the plenary will now take place next month, we expect the amendment to the Health Act to be on its agenda. Furthermore, in your response, Mr Šarec, you have pointed out that you are particularly concerned about waiting periods. Here let me make it clear that crystal clear from all the data that concessions of waiting types do not solve. The longer the concession, the longer the waiting species and longer the waiting periods. This also increases the practice of self-payment. If we really want to eliminate waiting types, we need to invest primarily in public health in that narrow sense of the word and not allow concessions to take on the role of a truly public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u34	I also cannot quite agree with this that concessions do not help anything. Concessions are mainly meant where the public health system cannot itself be part of all problems. Concessionaries are not private in the full sense of the word, but they are implementing a public programme. So I'd be careful in my statements here, and I wouldn't just say it doesn't solve the problems. It is essential that we, in the public system that we have allocated more financial resources, find such a way of doing things that it will work and that it will primarily perform this immediate reduction of waiting types of those that are unacceptably long. For the waiting species will always be, we will never bring them to nothing. But there will be a lot of work to be done — again and again — at the organization, at the examination of how many patients are actually coming to the doctor, because that is also an important question. If a doctor has a thousand 200 patients, it's probably not 800 every day. If it's my decision, I haven't been to the doctor in four years, so they don't have much work to do with me, I have to knock. So you have to look at this problem in a multifaceted way, you never fall into just one thing. They're overloaded somewhere, they're not. But once again, with all the unions, because today these unions are quite large, we will always have a dialogue and we will lead it. But we're not going to agree to blackmail, to pressure, and I don't know what else to do, and we're not going to agree to that, because that's not the way. If we want to stick to the beautiful word finding a nice place, we will look for solutions in this way. But if we spend all our time on some trenches and every day talking about how everything is in ruins and how everything is falling apart, then there will be no solution. This is the reality of today's system and it will have to work in this direction. But there's always nuances, nowhere is all black and white, and that's what you need to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Desire for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Slovenian public health system, in view of everything that has been happening to it in the last 25 years, still works surprisingly well. For 25 years, he's been under privatisation pressure, and for 25 years, he's been being subdued by the ideas of a medical and insurance lobby. What we are monitoring right now in the field of family doctors is just the last symptom or only the last stage of this fight of privatisation pressure. The fact is, the family doctors are burned. The fact is, they're too few. And the fact is, their wages aren't particularly high. At the same time, however, their hardship exploits this same medical insurance lobby, which has led Slovenian public health at all to today's point on the brink of collapse and wants to further privatize the Slovenian public health system through such created conditions. He has already blackmailed certain practices in the past. It has legalised corruption in the form of interception of insurance assets by commercial health insurance companies through supplementary health insurance. Thus, at commercial health insurance companies, €60 million per year remains for all insured persons who would be in bloody need of the Slovenian public health system, the number of concessions is also increasing, we still have the problem of the distinction between the public and private health system, we have the practice of so-called bilingual doctors. There are overpaid purchases of medical supplies. All of this is a mosaic, which is a problem of the health system, a problem of private practices that the public solidarity health system lowers. While I am pleased to find a common point with the President of the Government, Mr Šarc, in Levica, that we have found a common point with regard to the last opening of the door to the privatisation of the solidarity public health system, which has taken place in the amendments to the Health Act. I expect that the amendments to the Health Act will be closed at the next May regular meeting of the National Assembly. From there, we still have a thorough discussion on the area of concessions and, in particular, how to end supplementary health insurance for 2019, and the rights of supplementary insurance to include in compulsory health insurance, thus ensuring more solidarity in the public health system and the EUR 60 million that commercial health insurance companies are absorbing at this moment, transfer to the public health system for the needs of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u37	Mr Member, you just abused your speech because you did not make a procedural proposal. It's procedurally possible to speak, but you've used up your speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u38	President, I applied for procedural procedure because I did not abuse my speech. I have remained on the subject of my parliamentary question, while the motion for a procedural motion to raise a question from the parliamentary benches to the President of the Government is precisely intended to require a general debate. I have not only dedicated these 3 minutes to formal requests for general discussion, but I have filled this request with content. So I don't think there's been any abuse here.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u39	Once again, I find that you have not made a procedural proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. The next one has the floor, Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u40	Well, hello, all of you! Well, apparently I've had contact with the health system recently, and in the next few days it will be a few more times. I'll continue where my colleague Kordish left off. Clearly, the health and health issue has been very acute in the last month at all. We are also dealing with this in the National Assembly at several meetings, including on the working bodies, we have already met with some specific issues and have also found some solutions. The situation is changing daily, and people are actually worried about what their primary health care will be – even in the light of the announced cancellations of family doctors in several health institutions or health homes in Slovenia. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Prime Minister: What is in particular the Government's position on this issue, and what are the potential concrete measures? On the one hand, we have the demands of doctors and on the other we have the fear of patients. How can the government calm matters down, since obvious issues can only be resolved in a coordinated and, of course, inter-sectoral way?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for asking. You're asking me about the situation in family medicine. I'm not hiding that these contract cancellations worry me. I'm very worried about that, and I can't be indifferent about that. Of course, I hear the argument. In all cases, it is the same, so to speak, overload. The description of the consequences of these failures is also the same as the risk of a breakdown of the health system at the primary level. The same is true of monitoring this news. And that feeling is fear. Thus, people fear that they will lose the doctor or health care they need or will need. First of all, let me just say that this fear is too much. We're not gonna let people lose their doctor. We're not even going to allow the primary health level to collapse. The Minister of Health has already set up a working group and there are also representatives of the union that is preparing, namely this group, measures. I used to answer that to Mr. Kordish the same way. The first will be the adoption of Annex 1 to the general agreement whereby the limit, when the doctor can reject new patients who have dropped to a thousand 895 headcounts, is to the number agreed by the strike agreement with the previous government. The adoption of Annex 2 to the general agreement will be followed by a new model of funding for family ambulances, of course not without financial implications. Let me mention at least at least 95 additional specialisations in family medicine, the planned imports of 55 doctors from non-member countries of the European Union and the expansion of the ambulance network, both general and children's and schools, together for 53. We are therefore preparing measures to address the problems of the primary level. Let me also touch on the burden argument. Yes, the family doctors are really overloaded, and no one here denies it. According to the Health Insurance Office, the average of patients currently identified exceeds 56% of doctors. But I will immediately add that this information does not reveal much. As I said before, it does not reveal, for example, how often these defined patients come to a doctor, does not reveal what their medical condition is, nor does it reveal how difficult patients are, or how old they are. And I don't want the obvious that I'm relativizing something again, I repeat, we're well aware of this issue, or that I'm going to challenge the doctors with a hard body. Absolutely not. And I certainly admit the burden. But I can't get past the revealed letter from the president of the Practicum Union. Although the whole letter is significant, I will only point out a few sentences. For example, I quote, "you can all resign in a healthcare home and open either an espa or a part of it and conclude a contract with a healthcare home as a subcontractor." Or advice: “The management of the healthcare home is explained that you no longer want to be employed in the healthcare home, but to propose a contract with you as a private doctor who will continue to care for the same patient population”. Finally, I quote: “I see no reason not to do the same to colleagues and colleagues who are employed in hospitals.” If I were a conspiracy theorist, I'd say it's instructions that are being implemented today. I'd say it's all about one goal: becoming a private. I'd be afraid it's only about financial interests in the background. But since I'm not a conspiracy theorist, let me put it this way. I hope it's not a false act of emotion and abuse of fear of illness. I hope that's not the case, knowing that there's a shortage of staff, blackmail, on the shoulders of patients. I want to believe that this isn't about the planned demolition of public health. I want to believe that this is not about staged intolerable situations, and I want to believe that the goal is not to privatise, that everyone does not think that way, or that everyone thinks that way. So I hope that the doctors in the patients will first see people.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your answer. That's also what we pointed out on the board last week. The system is functioning, not the most ideal, but still works, and the vast majority of the health care we receive is completely correct, at the highest level, so I thank all health workers, before I continue with the question, also sincerely. Based on your response and on public health, I am interested in how you deal with another union request, namely another union immediately appeared at the request of the Practitioner, and this is Fides, who is actually predicting or requiring exit from the single pay system. How will the Government react in this respect, as aspirations are very intense and can quickly extend to other areas in the public sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you. I have repeatedly pointed out that this moment's exit from the single pay system of any group is not possible, because then it would actually have a breakdown of the system. The letter from the president of the Practicum union could indicate that if family doctors did what it says in this letter, it would actually be an exit from the single pay system, because then they would manage their own finances. But if we're talking about salaries, I'm going to add this -- not all medical salaries are high, not very high. Family medicine doctors, although at the last sentence they have two higher wages, are never among the recorders. You will not find them on the first thousand highest wages in the public sector, but you will find 838 doctors on the January list. I'm not saying it's wrong, of course. I'm just illustrating it. And another illustration. I was myself in January with my salary at 1714th and the Minister of Health at 2248th place at the height of the salary, but I do not complain, I just say that it will be clear that some wages are also quite high and the matter must always be looked at from other wages. Once again, this moment's exit from the single pay system can only lead to the breakdown of the pay system, chaos in the area of public wages, and then it would go as dominoes and really collapse the system. However, I am not saying that it may be possible in the future if a new system is prepared, what new legislation, but it is integrated and very thoughtful that this is possible, even though I personally estimate that in the next five years, if not for sure, we cannot even think about it, let alone implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr President, for the answers given today. By doing so, honourable Members, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 5th and 6th meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo, will answer Mr Željk Cigler's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Member and all present! First of all, I apologize for not being able to answer your question because of my work path. You ask me about the question of temporary and permanent children's escorts with special needs. We both know that this is regulated by Article 10 of the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs, and then there is a regulation and criteria for defining the type and degree of deficits or disturbances of children. But we don't want to go after these paragraphs because we both know them too well, and that's not the point. The aim is to ask ourselves whether we have found the best solution for all those children who have emotional, behavioural, autistic or any other deficiency in the Children's Guidance Act with special needs, but now, after the current regime alone, without further intervention, this permanent companion does not belong to them. We also have to ask ourselves how we actually conceived this permanent companion, or as someone with only secondary education, as someone who actually offers physical assistance only to those who are more difficult to move, who are blind and so on. Therefore, our question, which we have and which you are somehow asking me, is a question of the future. The issue of the future in terms of how it would be right to deal with this in the future in the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs. In the past, in the past period, a few years ago, we had an assistant pilot project. And the assistant, who is something completely different than the companion, who is only for physical assistance, has proved to be, at least this is how my colleagues report to me, as a better solution for children with behavioral, emotional, autistic and other disorders. Because it is not so much a question of physical assistance as it is a question of permanence, of ensuring security, of ensuring that children who already have these deficits feel safe. We at the Ministry are now drafting amendments to the Children's Guidance Act with special needs, this is one thing that, if this were the case, would introduce assistants who are some other category as escorts. Then the second thing is to continue the pilot project, which would continue with assistants, until we adopt an amendment to the Law on Children’s Guidance with Special Needs. I think we had them in the last part of the 200 project, around there, I'm talking about this number and I'm sorry if it's not real. And this is one of the ways we can, let's say, cushion the not so good situation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Željko Ciegler, please, an additional questioning.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. Respectable others present! I'd say that. On 2 April, we were both present at the National Autism Awareness Conference, where representatives of schools, kindergartens, parents and NGOs told us what the problem is and how its failure to deal with children is a very serious problem. At the same time, thank you for telling us that you are preparing changes to the Children's Guidance Act with special needs. And the last time I asked you one more question was to say: How many children are provided by the Ministry of Education today? Because these escorts are assured. The problem that I see, as I was taught by the Ministry of Education, is that these escorts are provided not on the basis of guidance decisions, but that after the school gives the role, 408 children in Slovenia who are in violation of these rights will find out for each individual whether they need an escort and in what proportion. And if the Ministry decides to pass a child guidance committee to appoint an escort, it shall give it to him on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and Standards. And children have an escort assigned from 0.20 to 50 or 60 %, which is incorrect. My proposal was that until the Children's Guidance Act with Special Needs has changed, until it is resolved systematically, all children who are assigned an escort shall be provided with this in full working time on the basis of the Regulation on Standards and Standards for the Implementation of the Primary School Programme, as now provided. These escorts, which children have and have accepted, are the best-quality system solution. And that's my suggestion. And I'm asking you for information, which was the second part of my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much! Of course, we don't have the data this way you want it. Nor do we agree with the interpretation that we are in any way violating any rights. We work strictly by law and by law. This interpretation of yours is your interpretation. What's this all about? It is simply that you know that under Article 10 of the Law on child guidance with special needs only a permanent companion is designated for certain categories of children and for other categories a temporary escort. And we both know that very precisely. As far as we are concerned, then, we are further helping the Ministry to further assist on the basis of guidance decisions, but because the system is such that permanent escorts are systemised, and for temporary escorts, the school, as you have found, must, within the standards and standards, find the people who are also doing so. We agree, it's not good and it's not right, and that needs to be changed. But I do not accept the interpretation that we are violating rights to anyone in this way, given the current regime. That it can be better, we know that we are doing projects that ease this situation, we also know that it is true, but I think that you too are very clear at a meeting at the Ministry because I have been thoroughly briefed on this meeting, explained that we are not violating the rights, but that legislation gives us certain options and certain options do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much! Mr Minister, even though you are a minister, and I am only a Member, I will say that I have been working on this issue for seven years within local communities. That there is an irregularity here, you are told by schools, professions, legal opinions, that is what the Ombudsman warned you about in last year's report. It is not that you want to help, you are obliged, as the competent Ministry of Education, to ensure the implementation of Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is, for all children, equal education in statutory primary education. This means that those who have special needs are listed in the decision with special needs, which conditions should be ensured for these children to be in an equal position with others operating without a decision. The Ministry does not guarantee this, and we demand it. And these children are therefore in a discriminatory, worse position towards others. The concrete experience of your secretary and professional workers working in the field of children with special needs has shown how the companion benefits and helps the child to come into an equal position with their schoolmates. And it also helps other children in this class to be able to learn normally in this class. I don't understand why the Ministry of Education for seven years – whoever the school minister was before – is doing all these things to the detriment of children in Slovenian primary schools. I'll tell you again – that's what schools, parents, NGOs tell you, but the ministry sits on its ears. Dear Minister, I understand or expect this matter to be resolved. Last but not least, in the previous term, Dr Jasna Murgel, the first-signed, proposed amendments to the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs, where it has been admitted that children's constitutional and legal rights are being violated. Sadly, this law was put aside at the time because it was said that elections were now under way, let us wait for the elections. Excuse me, who should the children in Slovenia be waiting for to ensure that their fundamental rights are no longer violated? Last time, the secretary at your ministry did a very nice job on me. She said: “Yes, Mr. Cigler did not understand the matter, such children are for 408.” I would not sit so calmly as to let things go forward, but the injustices are violated by the most sensitive class of people in our home — children. I'm asking you to take action. Thank you. However, I demand that the matter be dealt with at a meeting of the National Assembly. I always forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u55	Mr Member, we are a learning society. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. And now Mr Minister answers Mr Primož Siter's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, you asked me about eAssistent and the payment of services. Let me start by saying that we're going, as it's called, and media really is. There is no regulation in the field of education and education which requires schools to use eAssistent is not such a regulation. And there's no regulation that says parents have to pay to use any service. On the contrary, the school is obliged to provide all information free of charge. The school is obliged to provide information on the functioning of the school, the school is obliged to provide information about the student and everything related to it. And if we go from here now, if that was the point of the answer, then we can look at what the ministry is doing to somehow ease this situation. For the first time, as you know, a system project is being prepared; a system project that will connect all bases, which will also be at some further stage of compensation or can replace these currently paying applications. I think it is necessary, from a security point of view, from any other point of view, that these bases are not with a private provider, but that the state has these bases and that the State is properly managing these bases. Secondly, what we would like with this system project is that we want to be independent of each school individually, because this service that you referred to in the question of the Member State is not the only service, but there is also a competitive one and even a third; but we want schools to have a single system. And this project at least takes place at the Ministry, it started before me, but we have some legal obstacles, that's the first, let's say we need a school record law, and of course other obstacles that are essential for us to get to the implementation of this project. And if we move on. One is systemically, another is that the state provides software that teachers can communicate with their parents. We do not need to communicate through this commercial software, but we do have software with licences and other things that provide free communication; and this communication can flow on the basis of this software. Third thing, if we look at it like that, we can figure out how it happened. This situation, as we have it, occurred a few years ago when the Ministry adopted an amendment to the School Documentation Rules, which stated that school documentation is stored primarily in electronic form. And then there are these providers, because, on the one hand, it was said in the Rules that it was a matter of entering the school space to keep the documentation; on the other hand, the second step was not taken to ensure this, of course, some other tenderers who are now exploiting this situation entered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member, will you request a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your words and for your reply to the Minister. However, I would point out one key conflict that occurs here. It is good news if we go in this direction to arrange and transfer things to the ministry, but here at the moment there remains a key problem, a key conflict that is on the one hand offering some regular insight into the pedagogical process, which is a substantive thing; on the other hand, the conditionality of this looks in this factual state with some financial background of the child's family. This is the reality of this moment. The commercial services we are talking about today are payable, are free of charge to some extent and are paid in their full form. The Ministry's interests should be in the context of the digitisation of education, following some guidelines for the development of education for the benefit of all and accessibility of the education system for all. The reality is basically these two companies, which you mentioned yourself. For example, eSchool has earned 9 million in public education since 2011 and then 1.7 million in 2017 alone, while another company has received 9 million since 2003. This is a conflict – good public education and capital on the other hand. In addition to the question, I am interested in: When can we expect the Ministry to get in the way of a free app? In developing such an application, how will the teaching profession take into account the specifics of teaching work and the autonomy of teachers and students? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Ministry has set foot on this path, the project is being prepared. The project is even so far away that project documentation is being prepared for the invitation to tender. But, as I said, there are still some legal obstacles to how to store school documentation, i.e. electronic feeding, and then there are some obstacles that we need to cut, but we are actively working there on the implementation of the project itself. What I wanted to say, and maybe I wasn't clear enough, so I'd like to be very clear right now. I wasn't talking about the free part of the commercial provider's services when I was talking about free. I was talking about that there are some completely different ways that are also established ways of communicating between parents and children and are electronic; the country provides licences and software for this to take place free of charge. And we agree, we fully agree that this is not the right way to do things about informing your parents, about the records, about the birth certificate, in short, all the school records. But we want to solve this problem in its entirety, not just on an application, but as you yourself said, in the direction of digitisation, in order to have at some point all the school documentation and then, as a result, all the data, all the school documentation in one place, is crystal clear when a child enters the school system, so that all of his stuff, which is also for high school and then forward to the university where we develop the eVS system. All of this, these systems need to be connected and this is a big project that we have, we're working on. It is only at this stage that some legal solutions are needed and, on the other hand, the implementation of the project itself is needed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member of the Commission, do you have a request for a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u62	First of all, I request that the National Assembly hold a broader discussion on this subject at its next meeting. I hope that's recorded, too. But I do have a few more substantive points. When it comes to the fundamental right to education of every individual, it must not be in a normal country, civilised society, Europe of the 21st century, at no cost at all, depending on the financial legacy of the child's family or whatever. That's why I welcome your intention. I hope that we will have a constructive debate. However, I believe and I hope that we will also address the witnessing problem, which is that I sang a little for your words – we are preparing the conditions for the call for a project application. I think our national network of educational and research institutions has enough titles to do this without involving any private partnership; because if not, we can fall back on the same exam as we do in this case. I would like to repeat or express my request that we hold a broader debate at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mr Minister, you will now answer Mr Mark Bandelli's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question raised was regarding the surrender of beds to nonresidents of the student institution, as it were, domestically said — the abuses that are taking place in this area. First you have to say what the Ministry does. Directions, immigration, control and so on are in the hands of individual student homes. It is not a matter of the Ministry and the Ministry of Control over who is in these beds and who is not; it does not exercise; but nevertheless. We asked all the universities about college homes. In Ljubljana, we were informed that in accordance with the home order adopted in 2018, broadcasting, reselling, facilitating the use of beds for non-residents of the institution or persons who do not have the right to stay in the institution is considered a serious infringement for which a disciplinary measure is imposed. In January and February this year, residents were regularly checked in six homes and found three cases of these so-called false tenants or decisions. In two cases, the tenants have already moved out, and in one case, the case is still pending. Having found these violations, they will proceed with the controls immediately, said then, after the end of the exam period, that is now. In Maribor they answer that they have a clearer and more transparent system. There are licenses, and so every student’s home is better known, and this does not result in such abuse. In a settlement in Maribor there is also a 24-hour receptor that checks residents and household cards. The University of Maribor also estimates that this kind of practice, so that we need some action against this, is not necessary at the moment, because students also have the option of staying at the economic cost in their homes, so it is not worth buying decisions. The answer we received from the University of Primorska is similar. At the University of Primorska, too, abuse was not observed in particular. They also say that because of the small number of students' homes, they know almost every student individually, and that is why they do not — at least in their opinion and control — have major violations against the tenants themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Members, you'd like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you, Chairman. Minister, thank you for that answer. My question was not so much intended for abuse as not enough room for our students, especially in Ljubljana. I know that Maribor and Primorska have somehow better solved this matter, but in Ljubljana this is a major problem. However, we have found that one large number of these abuses are. I'll tell you myself: you type in Google – I make a decision; and you get it. Now you get it, six, seven of them on my desk, look. That's second, but the biggest problem was my question was why students still come to today, to tell you, the last list, April 2, that's two weeks ago, not yet, is still 76 men, 159 women, that's a total of 235 students waiting for space. Is that possible?Oh, my God! We'll have school in a month! That's what it is. I know the solutions too, I can tell you. For example, the Erasmus system. Erasmus system: six months go abroad, one in the first half, then go six months in the second, that's 250 students, at which point no one would wait for me to control it and examine who went to Erasmus, and give them six months temporarily here and then move them to a different place. I think the students would also be happy to get this place. You know, everybody can't afford a private apartment, which is true, and that's why we have to offer this thing. There's another problem. There are certain students who are enrolled as students but do not study, work and have the status of a student and therefore have the right to a decision; and they do not benefit from those decisions. Let's not talk about graduates. That was my problem, let's think like the Ministry and start looking at these students who don't get space. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u68	Just for a little while, I have to say, you're right. This year this situation has further escalated, especially in Ljubljana, because one of the student homes that has functioned as a student home has been potentially withdrawing from the student home set. At the same time, we have a whole range of foreign Erasmus students you are talking about and their reserved capacities. But if we want to internationalize the university, then we need to have certain capacities for foreign Erasmus students. The fact that our students go to Erasmus exchange saves the situation for six months, but not for the whole year, because usually these exchanges are only for six months, not a year. In general, we both know where the problem is — it is simply in a small number of beds. We're looking at a whole bunch of options, from public-private partnerships to the state building itself. We are talking about additional things because there is simply something I can and can do with better room management and so on, but believe me, in the Ljubljana Student House, at least according to my behavior, we had a few meetings with him, they are doing everything they can to make this bed management as flexible as possible and that most of those who have a decision, if not all of them, actually come to this bed. But it doesn't solve the problem that we don't have enough beds in common. What we should do together is increase the number of beds in the coming years, because without a larger fund, even with better management will simply not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the ninth Member's question, which is from Mr Boris Doblekar. Please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The question was the safety of the disciples and the presence of the great beasts. You know that under Article 81 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the State co-finances transport to local communities where the threat to the area with local beasts is. Here is one special feature that these paths of pupils must be predetermined, which is also asked each year by the competent Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Forests. And secondly, what is another condition that this path of these students is not crossed by the already well-established free transport route provided by local communities. When these two conditions are met, the invitation to tender shall follow. And I can tell you that this year's school year, money is provided from the state budget for transport in 21 municipalities for about 3,000 pupils. The estimated contractual value for all municipalities is EUR million and 4 000. This is the money the state provides and the municipalities renew the requirements every year. And as I said at the outset, there is a real danger of individual relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member, will you request a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you, Minister for your answer. I was asked a specific question, which I intended to ask the Minister of Agriculture at the time, and later I received an answer that the beasts did not belong to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is true, but to the Ministry of the Environment. I would ask, however, because I had a specific question, or, for example, from the local community, which I believe is a sample example, which is elsewhere in the country. I had a question for Gabrovka Primary School - Down, which carries out transports on its own. And 51% of these costs should be borne by the Ministry. The contract drivers shall include in their price per day everything from the driver's salary to the cost of cars or buses, to depreciation and so on. Gabrovka Primary School - Down has two vans, two chauffeurs paid for by the congregation. And these two drivers are also half-employed as a janitor at school; it's combined to have two good things together. This school transport is two and a half times cheaper than that of the Contracting Parties. Two and a half times cheaper, that's vital information. However, the Ministry does not recognise the costs as it does the Contracting Parties. The excuse was that the problem was investment costs. I also want to know: Why do these two drivers who are employed in school and who also carry out these school transportations not get paid in July and August? That's an interesting question, too. I think we should solve these things, without it being the expense of the local community or the municipality or, rather, the municipal budget, if we already have problems with these beasts, which are always and increasingly in Slovenia, especially bears. Of course, I suggested that wild pigs also be included in this payment. Thanks for the extra. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I thank you, but at the same time I will ask you, because the question in this form, with this particular information, did not come to me. With this particular information. I would be very happy to tell you, as soon as possible, how it is possible that these payments will occur. I am also interested because, as you described, of course, it is wrong; and you really need to look at how these anomalies occur. We all know that beasts live with us and that we need to adapt appropriately and organize our lives on the other hand; above all, we do not want any children with any beast to cross the road at any time. Let's be clear about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I asked the oral question the last time you were away when you apologized. It was specifically asked. It is also in writing, including in the form of a magnetogram, it is clear in my question that it is also clear. I expected a more specific answer. If you haven't noticed that, of course you can't even answer me now. But I'm glad you'll look into this case. I don't think that's the only case, but it's kind of a sample, and I just detected it. I do not think it is appropriate if, already under Article 81 of the Education and Education Financing Act, this is intended to be carried out, which I think is appropriate, without being the expense of the local community. The problem of the presence of large beasts on these school trails is getting worse because of the increasing number of these beasts, due to the ever-increasing shooting and large reproduction. And it seems to me that it would be better to have a rarer type of beast, a smaller number than that of money — you said something over a million euros — is set aside for these purposes for safe school trips. I have already proposed for the last time in my oral parliamentary question that it would be right to add wild game, in particular wild boars, to these eligible costs. Especially at our end, there are many in Zasavje and children may be even more afraid than bears, which are less rare. I would suggest that we hold a broader debate at the next meeting on this issue, i.e. the non-payment of these drivers and the way to children's safety; at the same time, joined by including my proposal and having a broader debate. I think that the Ministry of Education, which pays for this, in cooperation with the two ministries – the Ministry of the Environment and the Space Covering the Beast – and the Ministry of Agriculture, which covers the game – should carry out a broader debate and also take into account this proposal, which has already appeared several times, I myself have proposed that the beasts be excluded from the Ministry of Environment and Space and go together to the Ministry of Agriculture; and there should be a little more order in the whole area. I propose a debate at the next meeting if my proposal is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You've made a procedural proposal. The part that is a procedural proposal will be voted on tomorrow as part of the vote. And by doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to the first round of today's new issues. First of all, you have your word, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! Mr. Secretary of the Interior! Last week, I attended an exceptionally reflective round table in Italy on security and legality on the Balkan route. Other participants included Tonelli, head of the Italian Parliament's anti-mafia commission, then Piazza, adviser and expert on the fight against Islamic terrorism. The opening part included Massimiliano Fedriga, president of the country of Furlania – the Julian landscape. Let me just say that some Slovenian politician has been waiting for him for weeks. Here, however, no one in Slovenia felt worthy to come and make one report, even though the situation on the Italian border is getting worse. In a single action last week, 80 illegal migrants suddenly came from Slovenia and became more violent. Just a few hours before this round table came for the first time, as far as I know, on the Italian border to direct fire on the vehicle. Italian police opened fire when a group of illegal migrants with a van wanted to break into Italy; and indeed, not some kind of rubber, but directly into the front window, which is something people should know. As far as I know, no one in Slovenia has reported this. It seems to me that there is already a few government death laws that characterize the Mafia, that is, they remain silent; but the Italians are very serious and very strongly pointing to one problem that I want to ask you today. This is the role of some Slovenian NGOs, who, in this drastic resurgence of illegal migrants on the Balkan route, play a problematic role, which I believe is clearly contrary to the legislation in force. They go down to Sarajevo or Bosnia, they give instructions to illegal migrants, they invite them to Slovenia, they give them directions for the journey, instructions for the use of various programs, including through GSM. In Slovenia, however, there is already a true chain. There are even reception centers, of course illegal, for illegal migrants on their routes. One of them was supposed to be at Gotnice, the police in front of his nose, and he was discovered a while ago. Or really they didn't know about him before, it's a different question; it's a kind of center. And that's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: How will you act against these NGOs, which obviously violate the law for the money of Slovenian taxpayers, put Slovenia at risk and in difficulties in the international field?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr Member, for your question. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! Slovenian police control the situation at the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia and protect the Schengen border. This was also confirmed last week by the Director-General of Police in her statement. At the same time, we are facing an increase in illegal border crossings organised by individuals and organised criminal associations. We're dealing with the classic smuggling of people across the state border, and the police are successfully preventing these things. Your question regarding NGOs, I believe that NGOs are operating legally. I don't have this information to make sure that we don't act legally. If they act unlawfully, the police will take appropriate action against them. However, I must say that the Ministry of the Interior is working with seventeen NGOs. They cooperate with the Ministry of the Interior and also with the police. I also met with these NGOs at the beginning of my term of office. We're agreed to meet every six months. I also visited some of them. I must say that we have excellent cooperation with them in the area of family violence, to cooperate in helping, protecting victims, to help children many times, to prevent child pornography, to help women. I must say that without NGOs in this area, it is very difficult for me to imagine the work of the police in working with the victims, working in many areas. In any case, we will also pay particular attention to the supervision or functioning of NGOs in working in migration. There was one case where one of the NGOs suspected that it was an illegal practice, but in this case only a police report to the State Prosecutor's Office was written, so that the case was not identified as a criminal service. We will particularly examine all procedures in migration, and if any illegal practices are involved, the police will also act against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u82	As far as the police are concerned, I said that the Italians caught 80 illegal migrants in one action in one morning. There's still a lot of cases like this. Their assessment is that the number is increasing significantly, and this also reflects the numbers that I received directly from you. Two years ago there were illegal migrants in the first quarter of 202 covered in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, last year 660 and this year in the first quarter of 619. According to the Secret Service estimates, three of the people we intercept in Slovenia move forward, most of them to Italy, and the anger of the Italians is, of course, justified. Here Slovenia has an awkward position, because the more successful Salvini is in stopping illegal migration through the Mediterranean and driving those who are already there, the stronger the pressure on Slovenia is, of course, increasing. When you say about the role of these NGOs, I must remind you that the police have already investigated some of them, that there are a number of statements made by migrants in police records, some of which have also been publicly published by NGOs; and that the prosecution has also been asked to do so, which has said that the matter is there when it comes to obviously profitable activity, but is not possible to hide it for humanitarianism, but it is clearly ordinary crime. I therefore expect, and rightly so, that an appropriate investigation is carried out and action is taken as soon as possible because it suffers on the one hand the security of Slovenia. Imagine the Italians closing the hermetically border there, such an invitation to Salvini from Trieste already went last week; and Slovenia will be in an insurmountable situation in a few weeks. On the other hand, what does this mean for the reputation of Slovenia abroad; therefore, I would expect you to take this very seriously and that such an investigation continues.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Indeed, the number of illegal migrations to Slovenia is increasing and, in fact, Slovenia is also having a problem in some way because of the abuse of asylum proceedings. We know that many illegal migrants are demanding an international protection procedure. Slovenia shall also ensure that this is done in accordance with international legal acts. I must say that before the whole process is completed, most of these people abuse this procedure of international protection and flee to a neighbouring country. This is not only a problem of the Republic of Slovenia, it is a problem of the Member States of the European Union as a whole. We also discussed this issue at the last Council of Ministers of the Interior of the European Union, looking for a solution, but unfortunately not successful. However, as far as illegal associations are concerned, I must say that the police arrested 65 enforcers this year and ordered 52 persons to be detained. Police here are successful in preventing, but this is a business model, because every day you see in the media that one or more vehicles, combined and personal transporting illegal migrants are stopped; and this is a business model of these associations. This means that it is certainly also linked to the money or capital acquired by these criminal associations in this way. This is where the police are successfully preventing it. It is true that the Schengen border is burdened most in the area of the Police Administration of Koper, in the area of the Police Administration of Ljubljana and in the area of the Police Administration of Novo mesto, and in part also in the field of the Maribor Police Administration. It is currently being prevented, but it is true that the abuse of the asylum system is a major problem that poses a particular problem in these illegal migrations, but it is not only the Republic of Slovenia, but the countries of the European Union as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Grimes, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u86	I certainly suggest that the National Assembly speak urgently about this. The fact is that it takes place here, as you yourself said, as a business model or profitable activity. This is partly linked to the illegal mafia, which you are fighting quite successfully. Last year, 180 such major cases were intercepted, which the police certainly deserve to be commended for the cases they achieved. And second of all, it's a legal mafia. These are the NGOs that are happy to collect money from the state. One wonders what NGOs are like if they're financed by the government. This has indeed become a kind of paradox in the modern world. And on the other hand, they use this money to help smuggle migrants into Slovenia. Look, help with illegals is also illegal, in itself illegal. This is certainly why we need to act here. But it's obviously a profitable activity here. This was well seen when a call was published on the Ministry's website, whereby an hourly item – beware, for such NGO members who then have a contract with a non-governmental organisation, which is formally non-profitable, of course – even after EUR 116 per hour. Do you know what it is on a monthly basis? It's like paying 20,000 euros a month and a little over. That's four wages for the Prime Minister, if you want. Such money actually revolves around these so-called non-profit NGOs. And if these are involved in obviously illegal activity, such as directing and assisting illegal migrants in their invasion of the Republic of Slovenia, then this is a common crime that is obviously motivated by acquisition. And that's what the police are supposed to do. He has every reason to do this. All the conditions are met. And once again, the police have also made statements by migrants who have said how they have come to be directed by various activists from Slovenia from various NGOs to infiltrate the Republic of Slovenia. And how quickly they react has followed from your words. Before it was the most burdened part of the coast, this current is now heading towards the Ljubljana Police Station. And most of the flow now goes through the nomadic work and the village near Kolpa. There's a problem that needs to be dealt with seriously. I understand that the government is afraid of NGOs, because there is one part of the electoral body, at least some governmental adversaries; but the law is one and the law must apply equally to everyone and everyone. Only this is in accordance with the Constitution, and this also requires the express article of the Constitution — we are before the law and we must all be equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next is Mrs Ludmila Novak, who will ask the Minister for Culture mags a question. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! I'm asking you: Does Slovenia have any list or register of known Slovenians from the time of Austria-Hungarian who are now buried outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia? I was encouraged by two messages on this issue. First, in the Coastal Diary, I tracked down the article Who Should Take Care of the Grave of John Vesel Koseski? Who was John Vesel Koseski? Many of you know that this was a poet who lived in the days of Prešeren in Prešeren; and then even more respected than Prešern. Today we know who has the first place. The fact is that the poetry of John Vesel Koseski is not yet fully evaluated. In this article from the Primorski Diary on page 9, we find information to bury her in a market cemetery near the grave of Julius Kugy. Julius Kugy is his grandson. John Vesely Koseski had five daughters and one was Julius Kugy's mother. And not only because he is his grandfather, but also because he left an important mark in Slovenian literature, it would be good for Slovenia to take care of this grave. For now he has been taken care of by Mr Dušan Krizman for 20 years. The grave was in bad shape and would probably have been cleaned up if someone hadn't taken care of it. Another similar example is the tomb of Josipina Urbančič Turnorajska, the first Slovenian writer from the castle Turn near Predvor, which is buried in Gradc. This grave is taken care of by dr. Mira Delavec, who doctored from the work and life of Josipina Turnorajska. Unfortunately, she died at birth at the age of 20 and was the wife of Lovra Toman, then a well-known politician and also a writer who first developed the Slovenian flag in Wolfova Street. This grave would also have been destroyed or removed if it had not been for this lady, this doctor who studied her would have taken care of him.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you, Your Honor. Sort of. First of all, thank you for the question that has not been the basis of my attention so far, but with all the information you have given me, I also have to ask why such things have not yet been done. The Ministry of Culture may not be the right address for this issue, but in fact the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is the addressee and custodian of all the fallouts in various wars and so on. But I accept this initiative, of course. As I have now managed to ask myself, it goes like this: there are some lists that have actually been created entirely on one private, so to speak, an altruistic initiative of some individuals, including former diplomats; and there is something of this. Of course, this is nothing official, even for certain legal reasons, as I have already said. In one way or another, the Ministry of Culture supports such an initiative, and is prepared to help with all its expertise and expertise. I understand your question as an initiative and accept it gratefully. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u92	I will certainly also address this as an initiative to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs; I would also ask you as a member of the Government to encourage her to do so, because it is two cultures – the writer, the poet. Josipina Urbančič Turnogradska wrote 38 novels, some songs. She wrote exclusively in Slovenian because she was very nationalally aware and encouraged others to do so, along with her fiancé and later Lovro Toman. At first, they were skeptical of her writing. John Tridin even said: “Let the woman be in front of the furnace or at the cradle — not at the pen. This is not their profession.” He later acknowledged that her works were good, respectable, and proper for the next generations. And in those days, she was very educated as a woman, she knew many foreign languages, even a composer. We also have her memorial room at the castle in Predvor, and it would be a shame that her monument or grave would go to oblivion, or even more, that someone must now out of his means, out of love for this writer, maintain her grave. We do not need to discuss this with Members, so I will not make this proposal; I ask you to encourage the Minister or the government to do something about it. I visited two graves in Prague myself. There is Matija Majar Ziljski, the creator of the programme Zedjena Slovenije; a professor of Doctor Matija Murko, Slovenian and ethnologist. Those two graves are in relatively good shape. I don't know who's taking care of them. For the grave of Koseski and Josipina Turnorajska, I ask you to do something.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u94	Once again, thank you for this initiative, and of course, I take it that the Ministry of Culture will do everything possible to get to the register, to the list, to set priorities, to record the situation, to say so. And then together we can decide how to proceed with this cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, who is absent. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues, colleagues, ministers! Since she is not, I will ask her a question and she will answer it at the next meeting. It reads as follows: Madam Secretary-General, Dr. Aleksandra Pivec. I am referring to you on the question of the outstanding location of the Maribor Agricultural Forestry Institute, with which the institution has been unsuccessfully engaged for many years. The Maribor Agricultural Forestry Institute operates in the municipality of Maribor, which is a public institution by its status and, of course, operates in the public interest. The main task and mission of this institution with 90 employees is to educate and transfer knowledge to the users of the agricultural area and to carry out public tasks of the common agricultural policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Agriculture Forestry Institute Maribor has been operating in the property on Vinarski cesta 14 since 1928. The ownership and management of this facility has changed several times since then. The last amendment will take place in 2005 when the administrative right to real estate is transferred from the Ministry of Culture to the then Ministry of Education and Sport. This administrative right was granted in 2015 to the Maribor Biotechnical School, which also concluded a contract with the Institute. We're out of 31. 12. 2020. And here's the problem, actually. The Biotechnical School Maribor, which houses on the Vrbanska road 30, is also directly involved in the problem of the location of the operation. This institution runs out of the lease to the Nadskofija Maribor in 2022. In the event of a failure to continue the rental relationship between the institution and the school, the question of the continuation of the operation of the two institutions in the area of the Municipality of Maribor is raised. Since the region and the environment in which both institutions are very involved, both institutions urgently need this spatial resolution of the Maribor Agricultural Forestry Institute and the Biotechnical Schools as a priority and, of course, must be resolved together. I want to know: Did the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food recognize such a problem? What activities have already taken place to resolve this kind of problem of the location of the Maribor Agricultural Forestry Institute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Mrs Lidija Ivanus, Minister of Health Aleš Šabedr. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u98	Good day to you all! Although the number of doctors in the Republic of Slovenia is increasing, we are one of those countries with the lowest number of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants compared to the rest of the European Union. Currently there are 283 per 100,000 inhabitants, which means that the personal physician has only seven minutes to examine the patient. In developed Member States, this time is approaching 30 minutes. In addition to the acute problem of personal physicians, the problem in paediatric patients is at the primary level and in gynaecologists. This problem has been caused by the older population of personnel who will be retired sooner or later due to the lack of specialisations in the past and the senseless and excessive administrative burdens of these personnel. In particular, it is disputed that, despite the specialisation carried out, a young specialist must continue to work under the supervision of a responsible health care provider for a further three years. In this way, it unduly prolongs the entry of a specialist to self-employed work. The problem also arises because management in health homes is directly staffed by mayors and these senior staff, after taking office, forgive or establish an environment that leads to the end of the working relationship of many family doctors. That's why patients are injured. A fine example of such work is the Health House of Kočevje. I want to know: What measures will the Minister learn that this issue will be addressed at the level of the developed European countries? You mean to support the proposal to modernise the implementation of specializations? Do you support the proposal after a short period of specialisation? How does the competent ministry work with medical universities to promote specializations that are decided by fewer students? How many specialisations were enrolled for paediatrics, gynaecologists and personal physicians in the years 2003-2019? Does the Ministry record data on the health status of children and adolescents despite the consistent implementation of preventive checks by pediatricians and school doctors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mrs Ivanus, thank you for your questions. Initially, I would like to explain that according to the National Institute of Public Health we have had 316 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants in Slovenia and that the number of doctors in Slovenia has increased in recent years. They also do not consider that the lack of specialist doctors is due to the insufficient number of specialisations. In all the years in the past, the number of specialisations has been higher than the number of registered candidates. It should be pointed out here that they do not hold to the indication that a doctor must work under the supervision of the responsible health care provider after the completion of his specialisation for a period of three years. After completion of the specialization, the specialist’s doctor may perform his or her own work. As regards specializations in family medicine and the minimum duration of training for family and general doctors, the Directive provides for us to respect in Slovenia. However, if the profession considers that this time may be shorter, the ministry will support this shortening and modernisation as such. In the past, the Ministry has not cooperated with both medical universities in the field of the promotion of specialization. In the last 14 days, however, we have taken a very active approach. I personally addressed the medical students at the Medical Chamber at their career conference. The President of the Medical Chamber, however, addressed a letter to young doctors, informing them of all the measures being taken to improve working conditions at the primary level or at the level of family doctors. As soon as I took office, I also took an active approach to regulating the situation in the field of family medicine. First, we met with all those health homes where the human resources situation is particularly hot. We have put together a working group, which is working very actively and is preparing measures first to relieve the doctors of family medicine. We have also prepared an annex 1 proposal for a general agreement. And the work was also started by a group that is preparing a redesign of the accounting model. Regarding the number of specialisations: 95 places for family medicine doctors are expected to be designated in 2019. In the spring call – the invitations are always two, spring and autumn – we have already set 62 specials for family medicine doctors. A few days ago, a public debate was also concluded on amending the Order on the upper limit of the number of offers for work in 2019, allowing so-called imports of doctors from countries not members of the European Union. In primary health care, we will strengthen all systemic measures. We will also channel more financial resources. It is in preparation, as I have already mentioned, an Annex 1, which stipulates that doctors may refuse new patients when they reach the limit of a thousand 895 head-on ratios. We also ordered the Institute of Health Insurance to prepare and find solutions for the administrative burdens of family doctors, so that this activity or work of this group is already taking place. In 2018 there were 33 places for specialisation in pediatrics, 18 for specialization in gynaecology and maternity, and 119 for specialization in family and general medicine. In 2003, 20 sites for specialization in pediatrics, 14 for specialization in gynaecology and obstetrics, and 60 for specialization in family and general medicine were awarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Do you have a request to complete the response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u102	The measures that you have allegedly taken and we have come to know are that 55 doctors from third countries will come to our country. You know, such measures can do more harm than good. My question was: What measures will the Minister learn that this issue will be addressed at the level of the developed European countries? Thus, the imports of doctors from third countries, in my opinion and in the opinion of a number of citizens, are not a measure used by a developed European country. That is why I am interested in concrete measures to address this problem, following the example of the developed countries. If you start solving this problem in the way it was presented in the media by importing labour from third countries, I would like to know: How about a language barrier? Do you imagine working at the primary level in a way that, in addition to a doctor and a patient, he is also an interpreter? May I remind you of article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. When are you going to put the medical institutions under the auspices of the Ministry to prevent the mayors from being recruited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. The measure of so-called imports of doctors from countries not members of the European Union is not a new measure; it is implemented every year. Already in Slovenia there are some 100 doctors who are not citizens of the European Union. The needs or number of doctors identified in this Regulation are the actual needs of health homes, which have also been notified by health home directors. These are actual needs and not an assessment of the Ministry. Of course, all specialists coming from other countries must take into account Slovenian legislation and also the knowledge of the Slovenian language C1. These are also the conditions under which they can work in the Republic of Slovenia. So far, this measure has not caused any problems, as you state, in the health system itself. It is a short-term measure and, of course, it is not a measure that would solve the primary health problem in the long term. The key problem with primary health care is the insufficient number of doctors in the system. This is noted by all, irrespective of the data source of the profession, the Ministry and also the Chamber, so that the measures will have to be taken at several levels. These measures currently being taken are, of course, short-term measures to keep those doctors who have already resigned in individual health care homes, then measures within a half-year, i.e. recast of the accounting model, payments, which entails financial consequences, and then a long-term strategy. The measures will be multi-layered and also defined over several time periods. Of course, you have opened another point with which we are actively involved in the ministry, this is the management and management of health homes. The founders of health homes are local communities or municipalities, and the local community also appoints members of the board of institutions that supervise the functioning of health homes and, of course, also appoint and suspend the management of health homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u106	In view of the current topic, a very problematic topic, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, a discussion be held at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Next one's gonna be a mag. Marko Koprivc asked the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrei Bertonclj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Ministers! In particular, I refer the question to Minister Bertoncl and Minister Zajc. I believe that all together the goal is to create conditions for the quality of people's lives. Access homes are one of the basic conditions for individuals, couples, or families to live on their own, to create a life of their own, and to start creating a new way of life. Regrettably, publicly available data show that the accessibility of dwellings, in the absence of adequate policies from already poor accessibility, is becoming worse. The situation in Ljubljana, where we are faced with a severe lack of affordable housing, is particularly worrying. The latest housing programme of the Ljubljana Municipality for the period 2019-2022, which we will be considering in the city council just a few hours from now, is not very encouraging. That is why I have also sent it to you in addition to the question. If I quote the opinion of the MOL Public Housing Fund set out in this document, I quote: "Without appropriate legislative changes, which will create an appropriate support environment for an effective and coherent housing policy at national level, unfortunately the current momentum, non-coherence, especially slow but persistent deterioration of the public fund in the country will continue. The fact is, by leaving housing policy to the market, we are pushing people into an extremely disadvantaged situation. This has to end in any way. Every debate within the Municipality of Ljubljana on solutions ends sooner or later with allegations that without legal changes and government measures, there can be no change and solutions. Therefore, Minister, I refer to you with the following questions: In your opinion, what are the appropriate legal solutions and measures that would allow for the construction of more housing and the strengthening of a public non-profit housing fund? When can we expect proposals in this direction? The second question is, first of all, addressed to the Minister of Finance: What is the position towards increasing the permissible threshold for public housing funds to allow for additional housing construction? We continue to hear that the key problem is this, even in Ljubljana, that housing funds can no longer be indebted. Since the government is preparing a proposal to restructure tax burdens, I am interested in: Is it in your opinion that this opportunity can also be used for tax incentives to owners to highlight, at a fair price, the long-term rental of those who do not have a solved housing issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Zajc will be the first to answer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. I'm going to hurry up with this MOP work first, so he can stay for a while for his financial colleague. As far as housing policy is concerned, we are currently redesigning or refreshing the building trinity, and immediately after that we are moving on to housing legislation. In changing housing legislation, we want the following things. First of all, the housing fund will only deal with rental apartments, so the housing fund will no longer build for sale, but only for rent. In this regard, our ministry will also help the state housing fund and municipal subsidies from the Climate Fund. From the Climate Fund we will spend money on building wooden blocks, thus covering three problems or providing three solutions. The first is that we help public housing funds to build more housing. Second of all, we are addressing climate objectives. Wood blocks are suitable for combating climate change because they store greenhouse gases and do not produce them as concrete construction; and we also encourage the development of our wood industry in this way. In addition, which is also very important for municipal housing funds, we will turn the non-profit rent into a cost. The problem of non-profit rent so far has been, as it turns out, that housing funds have not been able to obtain sufficient funds to build new housing. We will turn this rent into a cost, and this part of the difference between non-profit and cost-effective will be the country's new wing through the apartment allowance to protect even those vulnerable groups that depend on or need this non-profit rent, so that we solve two things. In addition, we will encourage other forms such as housing cooperatives, which is also important. You can enter the model of housing cooperatives as a country or municipality, for example, with your land, and then these apartments will be built through housing cooperatives. In addition, we will also propose a State guarantee for borrowing loans, which will be very welcome for young families, especially those who today are more difficult to obtain credit because they are not employed for a certain period of time. We will propose that the state guarantees such loans. In the event that it does happen that someone cannot repay this loan, the state will enter, this apartment will go to the public housing fund and the person or family can stay in this apartment and then pay the rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Bertonzel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you. Dear Member, Mr Marko Koprivc! In the direction and management of policies in various social areas, it is primarily necessary to ensure and regulate direct action, not only through the tax system, on a case-by-case basis. These can only be used as a complementary element if this proves to be appropriate and consistent with all social objectives, and in no way can tax measures be applied solely to general social policies without the support of sectoral measures. Increases in the eligibility of public housing debt limits, which would allow additional housing construction resources, would constitute a specific exception under the current legislation, as you yourself have already stated. Housing funds and municipal housing funds belong to the state sector and are therefore limited in debt by the rules governing public finances. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, through its investments, can thus directly influence the balance of the sector or its operations can increase deficits or increase surpluses. Slovenia, as you know, is also limited to fiscal rules for public expenditure and has a certain ceiling each year for authorised expenditure, as confirmed by the State Assembly by a decree under the State budget. Housing funds at municipal level in this respect affect the balance sheets of municipalities and their expenditure, which are also limited by the amount mentioned above. The increase in indebtedness and thus the spending of housing funds could therefore only be higher at the expense of reducing expenditure in other areas or should be coordinated within the framework of national priorities, so one of these two things should be decided if we are to resolve this. However, this remains a priority and I think that this should be addressed within the framework of priorities in the following budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Koprivc, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you again very much for your word. If I refer to this last part of the debt and priorities at the state level. I call, in any way, I think it's a priority. Since we have heard many times that this problem of housing provision, especially for young people, could be largely resolved, I think it would be useful to think in this direction to allow for the additional borrowing of housing funds. As Minister Zajc has said, I certainly welcome all these measures that are planned in the next period. This was also one of the priorities in the coalition contract. But I'd still like to ask: Is there any more specific timeline when these measures would begin? Once again, I very much ask that this proposal for additional government debt be taken seriously. With regard to tax policy, we agree, but there is no way that tax policy can lead other policies. I am deeply convinced of this. As one option, renting apartments cannot solve a housing issue or a comprehensive policy, but perhaps as a single piece throughout the mosaic, it is also possible that some incentives will be provided for those who rent apartments in the long term for suitable rents. Thank you very much, both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Minister Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u116	I think that there is an optimistic timetable for the adoption of all the measures I have previously mentioned in the Housing Law and also broader in the first half of next year. We've already started with all the preparations, but the main time for this will be as soon as we get a three-story building under the roof, because that's what the same people are doing to us. I believe in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Bertonzel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u118	I think I answered that part. We agree on that part. In fact, it's all about setting priorities. Over the next three years within this framework or in the formulation of budgets. The next is for 2020, and it will certainly be necessary to set priorities in this context. Housing policy, in particular rentals, non-profit housing, especially for the younger generation, I think it is already on the agenda, as the Minister replied. All we have to do is find the right solutions. However, there is only one activity that is already being carried out, which will, to a lesser extent, nevertheless help solve the problem. As you know, one of the activities that is also defined in this coalition agreement to verify the transfer of dwellings from DUTB is probably the most appropriate place to the housing fund. Activity is underway, the DUTB will review the fund of its dwellings or potential land suitable for construction. In conjunction with the Housing Fund, however, appropriateness will actually be assessed. And if it turns out in the context of what's right, then we'll find the right solutions to transfer it to the housing fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franci Kepa, Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I say hello to everyone! The National Assembly adopted last December an intervention law on the removal of accumulated waste packaging and waste candles. The Ministry of Environment and Space, led by former Minister Lebn, stated in the draft law that the responsibility for waste is taken over by the State, both in the case of waste grave candles and in the case of packaging. At the same time, take care of the selection of the contractor who will take care of these removals on behalf of the State. The contractor will have to remove and process the waste packaging for a maximum of 120 euros per tonne without VAT, plus waste grave candles for a maximum of 200 euros per tonne plus VAT. The problem arose because the companies handling the waste packaging which should have carried out the transport started to claim that they had taken over all the quantities for which the undertakings had authorised them and paid them the packaging. Environmental and spatial inspectors carried out inspections under the Law on Intervention Exports in public service operators for the collection of waste and cemetery operators. The cases were reviewed and marked as an intervention transport of 13,000 700 tonnes of waste packaging and 695 tonnes of waste grave candles. Last year, by amending the regulation, the State of the communes, which could not wait for the intervention of the waste packaging, agreed to agree with the transport operators on their own. Last week, the Ministry of the Environment and Space decided not to award a contract for the removal and processing of waste municipal packaging and headlights in three of the total five defined sets of public contracts. In early April, no offer was received by the Ministry within a time limit which was extended only several times. The Ministry of the Environment is a public contract to carry out the transport, divided into five units: the transport of waste packaging in areas A, B, C and the transport of waste graves to areas A and B. Area A comprises 80 municipalities from the Pomurska, Podravska and Koroška statistical region, Area B comprises 61 municipalities in the Savani, Zasavski, Posavska region and the statistical region of South-Eastern Slovenia. Area C consists of 71 municipalities from the central Slovenian, Goranjska, Primorsko-Intranja, Gorge and Coastal-Kraška statistical region. Ministry of Transport of waste packaging in the west of the country, zone C, and the export of candles to the east of the country. In early April, the Ministry decided not to make any bids for these quotas. I have a question: How are you going to carry out this uninterrupted transport? Can this situation happen again? How many of these junk have you taken so far?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you for asking. We took three steps in last year's waste packaging problem. The first step was to amend this Regulation, which you mentioned. A total of 10 000 800 tonnes is to be carried out under this Regulation. For this purpose, we have concluded three-partite contracts between us, the municipalities and contractors for €1.15 million. The second step was the intervention law, which was passed on 28 December. The invitation to tender was made immediately in January, and then, as a result of the change in the quantities identified by the inspection, this invitation to tender was slightly revised and extended. And this deadline for the submission of tenders expired on 20 March. And it is true, as you have rightly found, for several sets, that is, for A2, B2 and C2 we have not received any offers, which means that we must repeat the tenders for these sets; and we will. In doing so, we will divide the units into smaller quantities because we believe that the problem was that the quantities were too large. And if everything goes as well as we want, we should announce around June who we chose on this call; and that is when this package is supposed to start driving away. However, as far as those applications were concerned, we expect that, once the tenders have arrived, we will assess compliance with the criteria, verification of the documentation, this is what we are expected to conclude this week and at the beginning of next week, we will also issue a decision on the award of the contract. This is followed by a major step – system regulation. We need to make sure that all the packaging going to market is also paid, which means that the 15 tonnes limit should be reduced to 0, then we should arrange to report that we are no longer going to such a situation as has happened to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The problem is very difficult. This problem has been going on for decades. The problem is not for payment either. The problem is, where would that waste pack be? How do you expect it to be the best solution in the future? Or as it is now, that it may be sorted and put under the ground; or perhaps by incineration? That a permanent solution could be the incinerator they have in other countries? We also have a small incinerator in Slovenia. Something burns down at the cement plant in Anhove, about 20,000 tons a year. What solution do you think is best for these matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The first step in tackling this issue is certainly to reduce the emergence of waste packaging at all. Already, extending the extended responsibility of manufacturers to everything, not just 15 tonnes ahead, will help everyone who places products on the market to ask how much they are paid to have packages. Or when he designs the product himself, he will also consider how much plastic he will shut it down into. Finally, when we exhaust all other options, including recycling, we need to answer the question, what about these wastes that can no longer be recycled after we have optimized the waste design itself and thus reduced the amount of waste packaging; what about now? My opinion is that each country has to take care of its own waste. If we leave aside economic considerations, it seems morally only right that these wastes do not go to any third world countries where environmental standards are much lower. I wish that this decision about the incinerator would come in cooperation with everyone — from the bottom up, that the congregations decide first where they would potentially have it, and then we will take the next steps together. To open a broader public debate in this congregation, what it means for the congregation, what it means for citizens, what will be the control, what will be the filters, what will be the role of the country, and so on. That the inhabitants of that municipality, which will show the greatest interest in such an object, are involved in the process from the very beginning. That seems like the only acceptable way to do it. If we find that we do not want to do this in Slovenia, then it is necessary to weigh or put on the table information on what this will mean for a single position if we continue to drive it abroad. When all this information is considered together, I believe we will make a good decision. In no way would I want a congregation to be commanded as a state to have this incinerator. I think that this decision must be taken together.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Next one's gonna be mag. Mr Dejan Kaloh, Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Minister of Infrastructure of Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister Poklukar and Mrs Bratušek. I will address to you the issue of road safety and measures to improve road transport. Last weekend, events that happened marked very tragically, three people died on Slovenian roads, while we were witnessing a kilometre stopover on Slovenian highways, while Dars has regular reconstruction work. We will probably all agree that transport security is a very important broader social issue in Slovenia and the European Union. Reducing the number of deaths is the point where all ministries are likely to be making every effort by all the governments of the European Union to keep it as low as possible or as low as possible. The expectations of citizens and citizens in road safety are justifiably high. Statistics say security is getting worse on the roads again. This year there were thirty deaths, last year during this period of eighteen. Last year we put the death toll below 100, this number, as shown by at least the first quarter, the trends show, we're going to outrun again. The resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2013 to 2022 established no fatalities and no serious injuries as the primary objective. These are beautiful though utopian expectations or goals. Minister Alenka Bratušek, you were once a Member, you also asked the Minister, Minister of the Interior, and the competent Minister for Infrastructure through the questions sent. You're in place now that you have scissors and linen in your hands. So let me ask you first: What measures are planned by the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate for this year to increase road safety, with a focus on cities with a high level of traffic accidents? How many of these measures will actually be implemented on the ground this year? How do you assess the cooperation of your Directorate with Dars in the context of high-level cities where measures directly related to Darsa activities are being implemented? Dear Minister Poklukar, I would like to ask you the following questions: What activity in relation to the primary causes, the real speed and alcohol abuse, is carried out by the Slovenian police at these critical sections and intersections with a high level of traffic accidents? Are you also planning to amend legislation in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Road safety is absolutely one of our priorities. And a hand on the heart, at the beginning of this year, this safety on Slovenian roads has deteriorated. Under the same legislation, it is worse under the same rules than it was in the previous year or a year before. Looking at the last few consecutive years, the number of deaths in road traffic has declined. And what's happening this year is that in the end, we are people who have a great deal of responsibility for making road safety much better. But whatever. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have already prepared an amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, where we will change a number of things. I'll mention three key. One is the use of the phone while driving; it will be substantially sharper to sanction. Sectional speed measurement, the process of determining who is to blame or responsible, will be adapted or adapted to European standards, so that it will not take months and months for me not to say a year and a year for someone to be responsible for the speedy ride. And last, a reduction in the blood alcohol limit. We have the law ready. I wish that this week, when we have the presidents of the coalition meeting, this could come on the agenda of this coalition meeting, then, of course, we will try to reconcile it with the coalition Members. And then, as usual, with all of you. As we are aware that this is a really big problem, I believe we can count on very broad support in all this. However, as regards the Directorate's actions, I can say that, at the same time as this legislative change related to the sectional measurement of speed, we want and are preparing a plan to place more radars in these most exposed places that you have mentioned, so that these areas will be better controlled. As far as the Directorate-General and Darsa are concerned, I do not have specific data to ensure that this cooperation is not as necessary. If you have any specific information, please, I will look into it specifically. Of course, there is no reason why such cooperation would not be or would be bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Member, it is true that this year's traffic safety is alarming. The number of deaths is rising, and this latest traffic accident in Kobarid, which unfortunately cost three deaths, is something that we are also sobering up on internal affairs every day and in the police that something really needs to be done. Nevertheless, the driver is human and, as such, is responsible for his driving, for his conduct in traffic. Here, with any repressive and preventive actions or activities carried out by the police, it is sometimes difficult to deliver an appropriate result. I must say, the most common factors in accidents are speed and alcohol. The vision of nothing that we all want and to which we tend is difficult to reach unless we as a society understand that driving too fast, driving too fast or driving too much, or that alcohol is not on the market. I must also say that last year we were all very pleased because, after many years, the deaths were below 100 and this is also a result of some good work. I must also say that the police do not want to be an incassant; however, it is right to measure speeds where critical points, black points and alcoholisation of drivers are also checked; because these are the most common causes of traffic accidents. We will also do this with preventive actions and with repressive actions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u134	Yes, Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. They're both referring to a human factor. Of course, it is the power to agree. In addition to the problem of drinking or the abuse of other drugs, drugs are broader, comprehensive treatments — from education and all possible stakeholders. Foreign examples, at least as regards the context of alcohol, that, thanks to more acute legislation, even in some countries, fatalities have been reduced by a third. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has outlined three measures that will now be subject to amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act. You listed the use of your phone while driving, sectional speed measurement and blood alcohol reduction. I must point out that this year my proposal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was to reduce or allow the alcohol level from the current 0.5 grams of alcohol per kilogram of blood to 0.3 grams of alcohol per kilogram of blood or 0.14 milligrams of alcohol per litre of breathed air. We found ourselves here somehow because we know that even a smaller level of alcohol, of course, reduces the ability to drive. The Minister has already replied to me that you are already involved in the renovation or are actively involved in the revision of the legislation in question. That's why I'd ask the Minister here: Does your ministry also participate in the revision of the legislation in question with a view to improving transport safety? When it comes to police work, my proposal to the government was to have a driver who has a certain level of alcohol in his body; not to be released when he says he will provide transport. Of course, it is still a question of the profession that this level of alcohol should be. What is your ministry doing with the recast of road safety legislation?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is true that, even at the Ministry of the Interior, we have joined the systematic resolution of these matters related to the sectional measurement of speed, especially at speed, because the Offences Act needs to be slightly amended here. About a month ago, we had a meeting with the Minister of Justice and the Summit of the Ministry of the Interior and Justice when we discussed this. We are also expected to meet with our colleague Bratušek in the coming days, where we have also agreed to sit down and talk about several open issues concerning both departments. However, I must say that we have also joined in internal affairs – we know that we are not the only stakeholders in transport, but we are very important – to consult with the Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in Tacno. I also spoke with Mr Velov, the director of this agency, where we discussed what those priority things were like to be done and changed. Finally, I had a meeting with Mr Staff from the Safe Way Institute, where he also proposed certain solutions and initiatives. Last time I sat with European Commissioner Bulcheva, where we also discussed transport safety at the level of the European Union as well as in Slovenia, of course. True, I do not want to report daily on fatal traffic accidents, but this is happening to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u138	I would only add once more that in the end we really are the people who are the most responsible, that no letter in the law will provide a vision of anything and that even until only one dies on our roads, it will be too much. The law is ready, as I said – the last interdepartmental coordination coalition. I believe it will soon be easy on your benches, and I am happy to hear this support that I can hear. However, I would like to stress precisely because of this human factor that the Public Transport Safety Agency has already strengthened its activities. In fact, it carries out 9 national actions in 14 over the year, where it wants to raise awareness and alert road users through different communication channels and media, they start already in schools – primary schools and in secondary schools. Thus, if we as a society are aware and finally decide and then make people aware that it is unacceptable for you to get alcoholized in a car, even below the limits set in the law. In short, I do not personally have a problem in this area with vision 0.0.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u140	Nevertheless, I would like to request or request a discussion at the next meeting, because of course the area is still hot. Here to conclude these legal changes in the context of mobile phone use. I have now seen that, Madam Minister, you have installed warning boards and detection units at Dragmelje and Brnik locations to warn about the use of the phone while driving through a light warning board. Nevertheless, I would recommend to you that you may be a little bit more rigorous, because I think that these are still quite nice warning boards. I drive a lot to Austria. Do you have any idea what the situation was like in that regard when it came to warning of phone abuse while driving? They had jumbo posters where there was a mobile phone in the picture and only one short sentence or two words: game over. So they were very explicit, so this is more like a well-meaning warning when you have these actions, even when you promote these legislative changes, that, as I said, you are more rigorous, that in fact Slovenian drivers and drivers perceive you and the phone in your hand, the malignancies in your body to make a wider, wider social damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Janja Slug, Minister of Education, Science and Sport of Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you very much. My question concerns the education of children with special needs or their integration and orientation within the educational system. Legislation in this area is expected to require more serious reform, as the existing system is somehow far from optimal. We all know that a child with decisions is more every year. This school year, 2018/2019, these children are in primary schools of 12 000 254, which already represents 6.6% of all primary population and in secondary schools there are more than 5,000 and 6.9% of all pupils. Of course, children with disabilities in particular areas of learning stand out. In some ways, though, we are also unable to identify children with mental disabilities or those with emotional and behavioural disorders. These true needs of children are often not recognized, and it is also true that the first decision on direction is wrong, that the whole system of the soul and children, those who need help most often lose it. It seems particularly problematic to me that the arrangements for assigning escorts alone are particularly problematic, if we are talking about permanent or temporary ones, because they are discriminatory to certain groups of children. I am talking here, of course, about children with autistic disorders. A national conference of awareness on autism has recently been held and I am sure, Minister, that you have been warned by stakeholders. Last but not least, it has been pointed out for a long time by the Ombudsman. In fact, the law provides that autism can only be assigned to a companion on an exceptional basis, and the profession here is the only or only one, so that most of these children in schools and schools need a permanent companion. The workplace is also not systematized, and this in practice means that children are sometimes accompanied by one person, sometimes another person, sometimes they are not at all, somehow they are out of the system. Parents often seek to educate their children at home, quit their jobs, and so on. Of course, these are special pressures on both parents and children, and not least on school teachers. In the previous term, one Member law was drafted, which tried to regulate and resolve all matters and to allocate a companion more equally to all children, and to my surprise and great disappointment, this law was politically blocked by the party from which you come. That's why I'm asking you: [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for this matter. You are right to say that child guidance procedures with special needs are too long, too bureaucratic and often takes too long, so that these children get the help they need and at the same time deserve it. That's what we're all about. If we move on. I was at that National Conference on Awareness of Autism, and there I also highlighted one dilemma, to which I will say that I did not get a completely unequivocal answer. Indeed, our companions today are mostly physical escorts, whether they are temporary or permanent, and we do not require special vocational education, but we do require only secondary education for them. This is the current condition for children's escorts. As far as I know, and on this subject we have also held several meetings at the Ministry with NGOs, but for the category you are exposing, that is to say, for children with emotional and behavioural disabilities in development and of course autistic children, we would need some other type of assistance, which someone with only secondary education, we are also giving them non-professional education, does not need or is actually unable to provide. Therefore, the question is broader than simply extending from temporary to permanent escorts, but the question is, in fact, what is the education and what activities this companion must carry out, because only physical monitoring of the child is not sufficient in this case. I think that's where all the opinions of NGOs go on the subject of autism. But that's not the only question raised by the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs. We've made it clear that the procedures are too long. Another issue, which is a big question, is the whole vertical issue. You have mentioned only primary and secondary education, but children with special needs, those are no longer children, but they are adults and then fall into another law, but nevertheless, we also have them in higher education and the question is whether in higher education for those with special needs we are implementing all the necessary measures that are intended for them to reach the highest level of education in higher education than they can achieve. If we're going to expand slightly, I think I've already pointed out a few things in one of the answers to the question. Yeah, we're definitely thinking about what you asked me about changing ZUPP, that's number one. Number two, we're also thinking about replacing the escorts with the assistants. Assistants have a completely different role, have a professional education and, of course, their monitoring is something else entirely, i.e. professional monitoring. They provide long-term monitoring so that children with emotional, behavioural, autistic, and other disorders feel safer, which is crucial to them. Then let's move on. Thinking, and this is just thinking, is the question of whether we have such children with such shortages in our class, or adding an additional teacher to the classroom, I don't know how many children have this special expertise, of course, so that we don't take the child away from school every time we work with him, but we do it in an integrated class. By discussing, reflecting on solutions and also on the working group, we have a name that will go in the direction of changes in the CAPP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have a request for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u146	That's why I was saying, if you've been listening to me, about a more comprehensive transformation of the area, because my question was not just about this constant or temporary companion, but about the system as a whole. Of course I'm not an expert here. This regulation on this requirement for secondary education may also seem problematic. But what's important, especially what I'm listening to in the field, is that this person, regardless of what education he has, is able to make some genuine contact with the child, that he's able to understand, so to speak, to breathe with him, to help him; to figure out what those things are that throw him out of the track and so on, and to help him in particular in social contacts, in communication and so on. In Cel, we had a good example when, on the initiative or at the efforts of the principal, he received a permanent companion and, in fact, was able to attend a study even without him after a few years. Such examples of such good practices exist and, in the long term, basically appreciate the whole system, if we are so very exposed, and if we banalise the matter against the costs that we talk about all the time. However, it is also important to keep this constant in mind from the point of view of the work of other students in the class. Okay, now you've mentioned that you're working on being a task force, but I'd like to hear a little bit more about the timeline: When is it expected that there might be some results?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you. I agree with you. This permanence is really crucial. But just as you have highlighted a positive example – and I think I even know that cell case – I must say that unfortunately there are also cases where these permanent escorts do not do this work in such a good way and do not provide this integration and, above all, emotional support as they could. Many of these companions simply take the job because they have no other work to do, and there is nothing else to find. Of course, this is not appropriate and does not produce such results. Our thinking goes primarily in this direction that if education is appropriate, then it is someone, at least in part, who has ensured more that this relationship between the person accompanying it and between the associate at least from this professional point of view; but, frankly, there is no guarantee for anyone and here you are right. With regard to the timeline, I cannot answer you right now, because the solutions are on the table, I just think that the experts at the moment have been, I can tell you, in the last three months, four of them, which are not entirely consistent with each other. [[…]] And that's not the thing, as you said to yourself, that you're not an expert, and I'm not an expert, except as far as I'm learning on this matter, but it's crucial to me that experts, NGOs and so on, that they agree on what's the best solution, and then we'll do it. What I promise you, however, is that we will continue to be active in this matter and that we will be very well aware of these guidance procedures, which are abnormally long, proposals and often not in favour of children, that we will shorten them and of course make them much more appropriate. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mag. I apologize to Ksenija Klampfer, and to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Sam Zajc – Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr Zajc and distinguished Minister Klampfer, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members and all present guests! The solution to the housing problem for young couples in our country is similar to winning an Olympic medal. Most of these adults are forced to live with their parents until the age of 30, or they spend more than half of their monthly income on rent and rent. They are also not able to buy their own residential property at the beginning of their working life. It happens that those who get a job outside the borders of our homeland go there and never come home again. Our most active citizens, who should be the heart and head of the progress and development of Slovenia, are leaving because they are making it more difficult to get their first real estate here, the first residence. These are young families, which are a strong consumer in each country, a kind of engine of the economy. Madam Minister: Are we aware of this burning problem? In fact, these young boys and girls don't grow up until they solve the housing problem. Sometimes they can do this only in such years when they are no longer really interested in their parents or are not in the primary. However, we also have a demographic trend in population ageing, which also depends on the possibility of the independence of young couples and on the more favourable conditions for the creation and survival of families. Do you have any concrete solution to this issue at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs? What, then, do you suggest in a way that there may be more of us and that we may be rejuvenated as a Slavic society? Dear Mr. Zajc, as Minister for the Environment and Space, please explain: Is it actively being saved in your department, and how is the manoeuvring of rented apartments being saved? According to the latest data, we have between 6,000 and 10,000 mannequins. Indeed, you have already received a question from some of this earlier, and you have answered it, so I may be able to do concrete things. Some time ago, six months ago, it was said that some 2,000 apartments would be built, now it is said — a source from 24 hours.com — that the ministry gave actual information that only 900 would be built. However, these apartments, which will have a new way of renting, will be cost-effective by 30% higher prices of these rents. This elevation will also fly to those with the lowest income. It is said that it will not make it easier for them to rent this property. What is better for them now: whether it's a non-profit or this expensive way of renting? Also, if I touch the fact that we do not have enough apartments in Slovenia to rent: Wouldn't they, perhaps, offer the housing fund to those unoccupied apartments owned by the state and give them away?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I suggest you answer first, Madam Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. The housing problem is regulated by both young families and the Ministry of Environment and Space to the greatest extent. In short, I can reply that the Ministry of Labour, Families, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities regulates the issue in the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, by regulating the right to a subsidy to which persons or families are entitled, provided that income or persons or families do not exceed the limits of the income provided for in the law. Hence, marriage does not have a specific arrangement for a young family. Of course, the fundamental criterion is the material position of the family as such. Since you also asked me about fertility, I would also like to point out that, taking into account all demographic trends and demographics in Slovenia, we are also very active in this issue. We note that, despite the fact that we have one of the best family policies in Europe, the OECD estimates that we are in third place, this does not affect the number of births. Last but not least, family policy itself or financial transfers themselves do not affect – they have been proven to have no impact, and other Member States have also been involved – the number of births alone. My personal opinion is that the challenge ahead of us can also be addressed mainly with the title of how to coordinate professional and private life. I think this is the topic that we need to start talking about, because I think it will be easier for young families to decide for their children or families sooner if they can coordinate both professional and private lives more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you. Thank you for asking, too. So the housing problem, as we see it, we can solve, say, in at least three ways. One is by allowing them easier credit, the other by allowing them easier access to rental issues or in a third form, such as housing cooperatives. These are the three main areas where we will focus on reforming housing legislation. As far as credit issues are concerned. The problem is that young people who create their own home for the first time do not get credit at the bank, because they are usually employed for a certain period of time and the banks are making more difficult decisions. If you don't have some backstabbing with your parents to set up your property, it's hard to get that credit. We intend to address these issues in a way that will make the state a guarantor of such credit and thus make it easier for the banks to decide to grant such credit. In the event that this young family can no longer repay the loan, then the credit is taken over by the state or the housing fund, the family stays in the apartment, so that it is not necessary to fear that if something breaks down without a home, the housing fund becomes the owner of the apartment and that it is put into the housing fund. This is a solution that we see as appropriate for those who want to solve their housing problem in a way that makes them the owners of their apartment. But those who see the solution in hiring have the problem of renting apartments. We need to expand this fund. After we invited the congregations to check their needs, we did get a number: 6,000 homes are still missing. So that the congregations can build more, we intend to turn the non-profit rent into a cost. Because this is the only way in which the congregations will have the means to build new dwellings, in addition to maintaining existing ones. However, this difference between the non-profit, current and cost-effective, later, in cases where the beneficiary is entitled to it or when the person is entitled to it, the country with the apartment allowance will cover it. In this way we will also have greater transparency over who this social transfer is – because it is a social transfer – we also get it. In addition to this transparency, we will also somehow make the system more equitable to those who can afford the cost of rent, which is also paid, and those who do not, then from the country get that difference. Then there are other forms, such as housing cooperatives. We've done some research on possible forms of housing cooperatives. One pilot project is now under way in Ljubljana in cooperation with the state and city funds. I wish there were more of these ways or projects. It would therefore also be appropriate for some of the DUTB land also to go to the State Housing Fund in order to enable the State to enter such projects in addition to municipal housing funds. In this way, it seems to me that we will take the most concrete approach to solving this problem, which is still pressing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Blaž Pavlin will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space to Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u156	Dear Mr. Secretary! As we have already heard today, in December 2018 we adopted the Law on Intervention Measures in the Management of Municipal Waste Packaging and Waste Cemetery Candles, which in one year will regulate the situation in the area of the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles. At that time, Minister Leben said in a presentation of the intervention law in the National Assembly: "In Slovenia, uncontrolled piles of waste packaging and waste grave candles were accumulated. Public service operators can no longer provide fire safety and maintain minimum hygiene standards. As environmental minister, I do not even hope to say out loud how much damage is done daily to the environment and our green Slovenia when the rain is draining these wastes into our land and our pure drinking water." As citizens, outraged and frightened by the accumulation of packaged waste and mixed municipal waste in the collection centres are turning to me personally and to our group – as an example, the Suhadole Collection Centre in the municipality of Command – I am interested in: What are the actual effects of the law after four months? Does the waste packaging still accumulate in the collection centres? By what time will the accumulated waste packaging actually be removed and properly processed?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking. The Law itself has not really come to life. We accepted it at the end of last year, the invitation to tender was issued in January, it was concluded in March, by not applying for three sets, which means that we have to repeat this invitation to tender. For those groups where we received our applications, I am counting on this week to review whether all offers are in line with the criteria we have set, and we will also publish the results at the beginning of next week, or we will publish who we have chosen on the basis of these calls. For those groups where no applications were made, we will repeat the invitation to tender. We then expect that, in early June, we will also be able to reach out to these groups, where there has been no call for tenders – we have divided these units into smaller ones, so that we hope for greater success, that we will also choose the contractor in these cases. Thus, the packaging will be carried out by the end of the year or where we received the operators earlier. This was the second step in solving the waste packaging. The first was an amendment to the Regulation. Under this Regulation, a little less than 10,000 tonnes are to be taken away. Our ministry has earmarked over a million euros for this. However, the main solution comes by the end of the year, or just before summer, we will draw up new income legislation that will regulate the system in a way that will not have to solve these problems that we now have to solve in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you for your answer, Minister. However, with regard to the specific case concerning the Suhadole Collection Centre in the municipality of Command managed by Publicus, I would like to ask the Minister if he can answer them. There's been garbage burning twice in this dump in the past. The surrounding population is afraid of re-fire or arson and groundwater pollution, as the collection centre lies in the water protection area, not to mention visual pollution, because the pile of waste is bigger every day. The state of the landfill was repeatedly informed by the Ministry last year, followed by a decision by the Environmental Inspectorate that everything that was created in the last year must be disposed of by 1 August of last year. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Why has the company not yet removed the ball despite the decision of the Environmental Inspectorate and the new intervention law 960? Worse still, the number of fears has increased to this point in the collection center. If you cannot answer this particular question today, I would ask you if you could then give me the answers in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u162	I really don't have the data for a specific case right now, and I would like to send them to you in writing, as you suggested. It is a fact, however, what I have said; the intervention law itself has not yet really come to life because we have to choose the tenders. What we took was on the basis of an amended regulation. But I'll take a look at this particular case, and I'll let you know. But this is precisely because the situation was so critical and we ourselves were aware that all of these facilities were exposed to fire, and we approached these three steps. Unfortunately, so far there has not been enough done in this area, and we have come to the situation that we are in, as successfully as we are now doing. The main effect will be when all these calls are completed and the operators selected and the second year, or this year, when we adopt a system-wide legislation that will enter into force with 1. 1. I hope, however, that people in Slovenia will no longer have to be afraid of such cases as you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Primož Siter will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Kseniya Klampfer and Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, hello! Colleagues and colleagues! I will not say anything new or anything that our journalists would not have heard in Slovenian media in the last few weeks. I will talk about the unsustainable situation in Slovenian nursing homes, where institutions offer basic services to custodians at some paying rate, which is of course a shameful practice, which is worth judging that older ones have to pay for basic services such as showering, bathing, nail cutting and so on. Users have paid even for care since they were infected with one of the infections and so on and so on. It's a long list. In addition, in nursing homes, when drawing up lists of services to be paid, as the Minister says in her interview for the evening, they are very creative at this address. Such payments are, of course, demeaning to people who have contributed their whole lives to the country, paid with their work, labor, and, of course, deserve to be treated with full dignity and solidarity. I have a few questions about this. Given that civil initiatives, individuals and groups have taken part in these issues, I am essentially summarizing their initiative and their questions raised in the Slovenian media: Are the ministries aware of this problem in nursing homes? Did the ministries in light of the warnings in the media at this time already carry out any analysis of the situation in nursing homes? To what extent are these practices to be measured? Where and what are the causes of those systemic causes leading to such anomalies? What measures to remedy the situation will be taken by the Ministry and with what purpose and timetable? It should be stressed that it is indeed a shameful situation, a situation where we put a weak group on the verge of deciding their fate from a certain point of view of the multiplicity of determining what is worthy and what is not worthy. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want a word first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. With regard to your question, I would like to make it clear in the introduction that basic and social services in the existing system of institutional protection in the homes for the elderly are payable and health care is financed from the health treasury. How, then, do they price older ones in their homes? The basis for the pricing of services is the cost of services during the current year, which can be taken into account in the price calculation within the limits laid down for each element of the price on the basis of this adopted Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of social protection services. The key elements of the price are labour costs, energy, food, depreciation, investment maintenance and financing, and on average labour costs represent 50% in the price structure. In addition, the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of social security services also allows for the determination of prices for an additional volume of supply that is not subject to the standard scope of each category of supply. They may be charged on the basis of documented costs provided that the user decides on a voluntary basis and that they are defined in the agreement. Users in nursing homes are classified into different levels of care and care according to their needs. In this context, they are eligible for all services defined at each level of supply. However, if the user wants an added additional service, it is therefore not classified as a higher and easier category of care, but rather a home for the elderly charges him an additional service, which is more beneficial for the user than a higher level of care. In particular, additional services are to bring food into the user's room if this is not already covered by the type of care, the provision of cleaning services several times a week, as well as assistance in personal hygiene and daily activities to a greater extent than is the result of the category of care in which the user is included, shopping tours, hairdresser services, pedicures, etc. The types and prices of additional services shall be decided by the Council of the Institute. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities at the Prices of Additional Services does not give consent. In the area of institutional protection for the elderly, there is also a need to improve the availability of services, which can only be provided by the adoption of a system law on long-term care, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Health. The system law on long-term care is therefore also aimed at improving the accessibility of services by creating a new pillar of social security. The law governing long-term care will be proposed for consideration by the National Assembly during the current government's term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Now he gets the floor, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Siter! For older people in the public network, health care and health rehabilitation services can also be provided as part of basic health activities for their care providers. In order to cover the costs of the work of healthcare professionals providing health care and rehabilitation services, the funds shall be provided from compulsory health insurance. But if we look at this problem a little bit more, the situation is as follows. The area of service provision for people who are no longer able to take care of themselves is in fact not uniformly regulated in Slovenia. Services are fragmented and people with comparable needs do not necessarily access comparable rights, and both private and public spending on long-term care is increasing. With a view to regulating this area, a law on long-term care is being drawn up which will place long-term care as a new pillar of social security. The proposed legal solutions address the current issue with the aim of reducing inequalities, reducing administrative burdens, access to comparable rights for comparable needs in all environments, supporting informal care providers, reducing the financial burden on citizens who need long-term care, as well as local communities. They shall cooperate continuously in the preparation of the two ministries' solutions. In particular, last week, I was reminded of the Srebna Nit Society, with which I also had a meeting where, as a priority area among others, the area of long-term care and the need for a uniform system-wide regulation of this problem was also highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, do you have a request for a supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The silver thread is certainly the initiative that is the loudest or most active at this point in the field. They've made these things light up with us, too. Now, let's be perfectly lay; cut nails and peel apples and so on is not additional, there is no plus, there is no luxury in the supply. I'll be specifically interested in: Will the law on long - term care cover this for one user or user at home for the elderly? Statistics are painful today. Of the poor 20,000 users, only 40% of the elderly can benefit from their own income. Everyone else relies on family, family, or local communities. Here are the numbers very not in favour of citizens and citizens and culprits Of course, it is not possible to point the finger at employees in nursing homes – here we have a long debate with the Minister on human malnutrition, I will not warm it again – but on the other hand there is a problematic loose ownership-management structure in the homes where in the holy institutions there are people from different addresses, with different motives and backgrounds and desires, why they are there and do these things that they do. [[…]] So I'm interested in the following: Who determines price valuation? Is this entirely dependent on the world of the institution? Who is in control of these prices? This is not, as Mr. Secretary has said, a uniform arrangement. As far as the frame is concerned: To what extent is there even a staff-covered work at home for the elderly? Is this really the original sin for this problem? This is a system in which 1 euro is charged on one side for cutting nails, inserting hearing aids and so on, and on the other hand we read about six-digits, or even more, numbers [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Minister has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you very much for that question! As it is said, the types and prices of additional services are decided by the Council of the Institute. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs does not give consent to additional services or to the prices of additional services. It is true, I myself have been informed, that representatives of the Silver Thread have also spoken at the Ministry, and some homes have been quite creative in setting these additional services and their prices. For all the cases I've detected, we immediately sent the ERs and letters from the Ministry and invited them to withdraw and arrange them in price. Of course, the Ministry does not give this consent and does not control it. This is the job of the Council of the Institute, and we will once again and also connect with the Community of the Institute, as well as the Social Chamber, which will re-examine the situation, and we will also hurl such anomalies to the directors and councils of the Institute, so that, of course, such anomalies will be removed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you for your word! I would add that drafting a law on long-term care is one of the key priorities in the ministry, with the desire that this issue also be addressed by the system. Of course, as Minister, I will insist that this law will also be ready as soon as possible and that the problem will also be resolved systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your answer! I have a big problem with the extra charge for basic services in nursing homes. It is reported from the field, for example, that within one month the user can only receive a limited number, such as diapers, sheets, and once he exceeds this specific standard, he must open his wallet. I'm basically interested in: What is the argument that, as a community, we are not able to provide enough diapers to normally stay and enjoy a decent age, human and normal? The main attribute of the social state is to take care of its weakest members. The weakest article is the elderly, and if they need special treatment, it is the duty of the social state, it is the duty of a civilized society to step together and enable them to do so. Older citizens and citizens have, through their work, invested in time and financial contribution and effort and knowledge, that this social state, in which we can all reasonably enjoy normal enjoyment, is creating that it can function normally at all. Here is a key part of the social state's concern for these very stakeholders – the full services that this system provides for them and the full enjoyment of these contents. Therefore, I propose in the light of this, I welcome, of course, that this law is being prepared at the ministries, but I propose speeding up the process, I propose an open discussion with the various stakeholders at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now the next question will be asked by the mag. Andrej Reich, Minister of Infrastructure of Mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Environment and Space for Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u178	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister of the Environment, Mr. Zajc, distinguished Minister Mrs. Bratušek! My question concerns the area in which I worked for 15 years before I became an MEP, that is the field of energy. Slovenia will face two key challenges over the next 30 years: how to replace 60% of the productive resources that will be spent, run out and how to provide additional electricity sources. We know that as a society we want to become energy independent, that we want to become carbon-free. For example, I suggested that we install photovoltaic cells on the roof of military facilities spread across Slovenia. And in this light, I'm also curious: What happens to the Mura River for which the concession regulation was issued in 2005 and different environmental protection regimes were subsequently established? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. First of all, the Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you very much. There's been a lot of talk lately about hydropower plants or hydro power plants in Mura. First of all, I would like to make it very clear, because there have been many speculations about how I am personally a supporter of the energy lobby, and I do not know what else is going on, of course, that this is not the case. However, as Minister of Infrastructure, also in charge of energy, I have a duty to alert the Government before deciding what it will do, what the consequences of a given decision have. I am pleased that Minister Zajc and I agreed last week that we will put on paper all the consequences or consequences of all the options that the Ministry of Environment and Space are dealing with in connection with the Mura River, and in some way the Government will have the opportunity to decide on various issues – it will probably be said by Minister Zajc – but it will also know what this means. I would also like to point out the targets by 2020 – 25% of renewable energy sources in the final gross use of energy – unfortunately they will not be achieved in our country. And with this material I'm getting to know the government, I hope so. In short, when we take decisions on the energy system, which needs to be said to be good and something more then I will also talk about the issue of the energy concept, we must also have the long-term consequences of such decisions on the table. We are not opposed to the fact that hydroelectric plants are not being built on the Mura if we have an environmental report on the table, that hydroelectric plants on our river cannot be built because of environmental conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you. Since January 2012, the process of preparing the State Spatial Plan for the Hrstje-Mota hydroelectric plant in Mura has been ongoing at our Ministry. It has now been a long time in the phase of the variant study and the environmental report before public disclosure. Our Ministry issued a positive opinion in February 2019 on the appropriateness of the environmental report, which concludes that the plan is unacceptable because it has significant environmental impacts. On the basis of this conclusion, we have also drawn up several materials that are currently in intersectoral coordination. We're coordinating these materials. One of these materials is the preparation of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to halt the procedure for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for the Hrastje-Mota hydroelectric power plant in Mura. This is now Plan A, which we propose, which means that, on the basis of the conclusion of this environmental report, the Government would already decide to stop the State Spatial Plan. Another possibility, Plan B, is that this procedure continues, which means that the actions, as I will now state them, follow. First, a public distribution of studies of variants and environmental reports is followed by a decision on the non-acceptability of the plan, a supplementation of materials with precise compensatory and alternative measures. On the basis of the examination of all necessary measures, the investor and the initiator will then decide whether to propose the initiation of a public interest predominance procedure. This preparatory process would continue if the predominance process were to end in favour of energy rather than the environment. We are now in the process of coordinating this material. The government will then decide on the basis of the prepared materials whether, on the basis of the conclusion of the environmental report, it is already decided that the State Spatial Plan will be concluded, or whether it will allow the process to be completed and then whether this process will lead to a decision not to be taken in favour of the interest or dominance of the energy interest towards the environment. In recent times, we have increased these activities in order to harmonise the material, and I expect that we will soon align this material to the extent that the Government will deal with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. The following will be appointed by Mr Franz Breznik, Minister of Education, Science and Sport to Dr Jerne Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I was already at one of the extraordinary meetings – when I asked your colleague about the requalifications of people who are on the stock market, about the money involved in overqualifications, including the suspicious services of some, we can say that already criminal acts in this area have been announced somehow by the question of apprenticeship. As you know, throughout the entire parliamentary period, I am talking about the practice of apprenticeship once and today – even in this area of former countries, now Slovenia – and the practice of how apprenticeship works in Austria, where I worked, not least Bavaria, where it is extremely rooted and has a long tradition. I also talked about the fact that in Austria there is a saying that apprentices are also more entrepreneurial than academics, and that in Austria more than 30% of young people decide to enroll in apprenticeship, exercise apprenticeship and that through lifelong learning, Austria, last but not least, Bavaria, including Italy, is an excellent result in this area. I am speaking, of course, of the case that relatively young people quickly learn about the future profession, relatively quickly come to the market, as noted in the first electoral report on the experimental implementation of apprenticeships – this is the report you received on the table, we can say, recently – also Slovenian companies. Finally, the Slovenian economy needs about 30,000 people in different professions in this economic growth. Mr. Minister, I ask you: When will you put in place a complete system of apprenticeships and not just in four professional groups? When will you extend it and what professions? Will you also do so in the professions of the future, such as mechatronics, bionics, nanotechnologies, and, finally, domestic art trades — professions that are dying out — and so on? I think that the impression or identity of Slovenia is also considered in Slovenian products, products which Slovenian apprentices, later masters, can weigh out or also make Slovenian production identity necessary for Slovenia, for the future of Slovenia. So, the well-respected minister: How's the apprenticeship? How will this first project work be followed? How will the goal of apprenticeship be followed to implement a complete system of apprenticeships, as known by comparable countries around us? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, and, of course, thank you very much for the question. You're right. If we go to this system level first. In 2017 the Law on apprenticeship was last amended and today, although the first generation has not yet completed and the first generation will only be completed in one year, and then we can really do evaluation of how well it works and how it does not. But if you ask me, I have a very similar feeling like you – so it's not going well. What am I basing this on? This is based on what we have at the moment – I think that there were 80 in the first year, for the second year it somehow promises or promises to be 200, but in the generation of 20,000, as is usually one generation, of course this is very, very, very little. From this we can only ask for three reasons, probably more, but I somehow see three; whether we have a problem promoting professions – and under promotion I consider cooperation with work organisations, with the economy, with education, and also with the Centre for Vocational Education – but in short, in this quadrilateral it stops when we talk about promotion. The second place where it can stop us is the question of performance. So at this implementation level, here we are talking about the status of apprentices – and I think that you are also asking me about what the status of apprentices is – that it is not what it should be and therefore this apprentice system, as we now have, is not attractive enough and that is one of the reasons. Thirdly, I hope, given that the legislation is 2017, I do hope that it is not a problem in the legislation, so that we have so little – and on purpose I say little – apprentices. What we're doing right now at the Ministry about apprenticeship. We do not have any formal initiatives to amend the Law on apprenticeship. There are currently no formal initiatives. There have been no initiatives coming from different parts of the world, but there have been no initiatives from the social partners involved in legislation. So we need to focus primarily on promotion, but we need to focus, and here again you are right, on more cooperation with industry, trade and the professions of the future. The Centre for Vocational Education is developing new apprenticeship programmes. Any of the companies comes to us, we say, and we connect them with the Centre for Vocational Education to develop more apprenticeship programmes, and some of the programmes you mentioned are now developing so that they can live very quickly. We share an opinion here, too. This is the fastest way, so the apprenticeship mode is the fastest way to connect the employer with the future worker and in particular serves the employer in the sense that he knows who he has and, of course, if he is suitable, he can be very quickly involved in the work process. So, if I only suspect on three levels: performance, promotion and, if necessary, legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, in our previous mandate, under the previous Minister, we have twice introduced a law on the so-called amendment of the Law on Vocational Education, which includes a dual school system, including apprenticeship. I must admit that even before those last elections, I had been engaged for almost a year only with the Bavarian model of apprenticeship, which I knew in Austria. While I was working with Siemens, I had some young apprentices from one of the schools to which I was a mentor. That's why I recognized this model of theirs, I can say in at least one area. I can tell you, Dr. Anton Jurjec, who was one of the leading experts in the German BMW, has also made a number of suggestions from this Bavarian model of apprenticeship. As an example, only BMW educates about 34 or 38 apprenticeships. Just from these new areas, where, for example, apprentices are also educated for robot repairers, humanised robots, not least in metal processing, in various areas of laser cutting and so on. So I'm pursuing the goal: Are you prepared to listen to the Slovenian Democratic Party? Are you prepared to face the opposite of implementing a complete system with a proposal that we had prepared in 2014, 2015, 2016, last but not least 2017, to find a goal together and that, together with the social partners in this triangle, we start by seriously promoting these professions, telling people that someone who becomes an apprentice can also reach a doctorate in science and that this can be an extremely good example of Slovenian efficiency and a better business environment? I'd also like to ask for an answer to my question. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you very much. To be clear, we've never rejected anyone but the Priories. In order for me to know exactly what you're proposing, I have to say that I don't know him, which doesn't mean it's wrong for us to look at him together. We both know that three things are essential for the operation of apprenticeships both in Bavarian and Austrian models: chambers, unions, schools. If these three don't work together in some kind of synergy, then this apprenticeship doesn't work. The status is also important; so is it educational, is it a worker, or is it anything. We also know that due to international law, the issue of the protection of young workers is, above all, a matter of protection and so on. Thus, what these models know – and I have seen little more than any other model outside this Swiss-Austrian-Bavarian – is, for example, that there are also tax incentives for companies exercising apprenticeships or, we can say, United Kingdom tax penalties for those who do not exercise apprenticeships over a certain size of the company. These are the changes we can look at together and then go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Do you have the floor for a motion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u192	Mr Vice-President, I would like to use a procedural proposal to perhaps open a serious debate on this. I think it's important. Last but not least, if I look at the responses, i.e. this first evaluation report you have on your desk. Mr Minister, as you know, companies welcome apprenticeships, so this is the title of this evaluation report. Keep doing this, and he wrote one of the apprentices who is in this system. Of course, I think that together we must strive to promote these professions so that people who might be less capable do not go to these professions, but are people who have extraordinary practical skills, perhaps even handicrafts, and that these people, as the former chairman of the BMW administration once told me, said at one of my visits: “I have come to this company as an apprentice, I have become a master, I have gone to the BMW development department, and I have studied at the technical university, and I have recently continued studying and doctored from the development of BMW V8 engines in the past. After this doctorate, I finally finished MBA studies in America, and today, after so many years of my career, I became chairman of the BMW administration." I think that young people must all be presented with great success stories together, and these stories can be copied to these people to set some new goals. I believe that apprenticeship can be seen through a requalification, Mr. Secretary-General. In our model we also have this part that for people who may have a general education higher-, higher-, or even higher-, or even 1st, 2nd or 3rd Bologna levels, due to the inability to choose a new profession and to go back to the apprenticeship system. Last but not least, what does that mean? As part of their apprenticeship, they are educated in another profession at that time, and because of their informal education, they can then learn from this profession with their other specific skills so that they may eventually become big entrepreneurs in a market niche. So there are countless options where Slovenia needs to adapt and must become competitive. With the creation of this country, see, we also wanted to eliminate a number of monopolies. I think that we must at least partially eliminate the monopoly in this area and start working together. If Slovenia, as a small country, is its greatest advantage, it is precisely to follow the changes in the market quickly and in all the technological changes that are currently taking place in the world, not least in our neighbourhood, we must also become competitive in this area. [[…]] I mean, colleagues and colleagues, you're going to support this vote tomorrow. I want concrete, real cooperation, for bad results, Minister, I don't consider you, I don't blame you, it's not your fault, as you found out, but I want one serious, lasting cooperation in this area. I think that this is an important topic and an important area and an important matter for the future of this country. Thank you very much for the answer, though. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u193	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 April 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Jani Ivanuša will raise an oral question to Minister of Public Administration Rudija Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u194	Nice hello to you all! Mr Vice President, I must warn you again, Ivánusha, I am not Ivanusha, let this remain in your memory. Mr. Minister, I do have a question for you about the public sector. The quality of public administration and the satisfaction of citizens affect the performance of the whole country, so we must strive to make public services as accessible, quality, easy and user-friendly as possible. At the Ministry of Public Administration in January 2018, you developed a project to measure the satisfaction of users of public services. A pilot project on measuring customer satisfaction on administrative authorities took place between 17 January and 30 June 2018. In the 12 administrative bodies where the project took place, you received 6 000 500 surveys completed by the parties. The analysis of the satisfaction measurement shows that customers are mostly satisfied with the authorities where they provide public services. The average estimate — from 1 to 5 has been measured — moves around 4.5. Over 90% of the customers are those who were satisfied and very pleased. Given this data, we therefore have the best public sector in the world. I personally believe that the public sector still has a number of reserves, particularly when it comes to accessing customers. Several authorities, including the Ministry of Public Administration, have official hours only on Mondays and Fridays from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and Wednesdays from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and from 14 a.m. to 16 p.m. So a Slovenian working from 8 to 16 a.m. every day can't use your services. People actually have to take leave to settle their personal affairs with the state authorities, and that's not right. Not to tell you what it's like to visit a specialist doctor, but that's another story. The Ministry of Public Administration also carries out tasks in the field of systematic regulation of the organisation and functioning of the public sector. I want to know: Are the official hours mandatory? Does the ministry ever consider abolishing official hours or equalizing official hours with business hours? The worst thing a citizen can hear at the time of a call or a visit to a state authority is that there are no official hours today, and you had to come here today. Another problem is telephone response — each public servant has his own phone. If we want to be a service for our citizens and citizens, then why don't we publish all the phone numbers publicly instead of wasting time with phone answering agents connecting from one to the other. This is a waste of time for all of us; both state and public officials. If the President of the US tax court has a telephone number published on the website, I see no reason why this would be impossible for Slovenian public servants. Would it be possible to publish all the telephone numbers and addresses of the e-mails of public servants and, in addition to the personal name and job, to assign to the areas covered by the individual staff member? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u195	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u196	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I am pleased, Member, that you know the results of this study, which we can take as representative, because 6 000 500 responses to the public sector's work are not enough. In some ways, I think it also rejects flat-rate criticism of how our public sector is, or in this case, the public administration of some parasitic creation that does nothing and lives at the expense of taxpayers. With regard to official hours and working hours; as you know, the administrative units as the face of this country, the first contact between citizens and citizens with this country, have virtually equal working hours and official hours. There's minimal deviations. Some administrative units, I will give an example to Ljubljana, especially in this last period of a year or two, work through working time, through business time, and so we can say that they have unofficial hours because those official hours are not prescribed, but work through this working time because they are species. In the public sector, however, we do not record species like those mentioned by doctors of specialists, but they do. As far as the public authorities are concerned, you are now referring to the ministries, although the situation here is slightly different. The ministries, in their entirety, have relatively little direct contact with citizens in carrying out their work, of course, with the various bodies operating on the ground in the composition of these ministries. I'm not saying that the official hours are written everywhere on the skin of the people we're there for. The ministries may not even need to know how to spread them, but it is true that it is worth looking at the ground where state authorities, the most diverse, provide services for citizens and citizens. As for publishing phone numbers, as you say, and e-mail addresses, I don't think it's a problem to publish phone numbers. Or will we have better services for this, given that you say that sometimes the employees are moving people from one another to another, how will only the citizen find himself in this set of numbers and call the right person. I think that if they are not appropriate, the Ministry of Public Administration can say that such complaints, that we are not available, do not. If you have them, of course, we will seriously look at what can be changed here, or the general numbers that send the citizen to an appropriate employee, I think they work just fine, at least this is what practice shows. It does not matter – and I do not claim to have the best public administration in the world, regardless of this research, absolutely not, and of course there are reserves. But I would warn you when we talk about accessibility, another aspect that I think is more important than that. This is that we have in fact withdrawn the availability of many services to citizens and citizens throughout Slovenia over the past years. I am not speaking now in a circle within the Ljubljana Ring, but this country has in the past abolished a number of different offices, offices, state authorities and moved them to larger cities and we have unequal citizens here, we can say, with regard to access to the services of this country, first-class and second-class citizens. Here I see one big problem, and I was once – and I am also today – against this kind of centralisation and decommissioning of this country's services to citizens and citizens. What's more, I stopped the local offices of the administrative units myself. It's in my jurisdiction. We'll even open some. Now we are looking at where these options would be, but of course I am also against what was happening with various other offices, for example, only the tax office can mention what a revolt was like in Slovenia when the tax offices closed down.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u197	Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u198	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! I didn't build the public sector by any chance, you guys did a little bit of work, but good, that was in your jurisdiction, that was out of your mouth. I was just saying that things aren't available. She could be a little more accessible to everyone. What you were talking about in the end, you were talking about the centralisation of Slovenia, but what's really going on. I'm from Ormož. Everything went out of Ormož, from Furs, Geodetics and so on. I'm very sorry, but if there's anything going on that we're talking a little bit before the elections, everyone is talking about decentralisation, and last but not least, centralization is going on. [[…]] That's a little funny, but good. I'm still going to ask one more question to supplement it. In April 2018, amendments to the Administrative Regulation entered into force. To determine the satisfaction of the parties in the public administration bodies, Article 16 of the Regulation provides that “State administration authorities operating with the parties shall determine the satisfaction of the parties in dealing with them at least every two years on the basis of a methodology published by the Minister on the websites of the Ministry of Administration.” The Ministry’s website publishes the results of the annual satisfaction assessment in administrative units. I want to know: Are other authorities of the state administration also carrying out customer satisfaction assessments? Are they doing this alone or are they being carried out by the Ministry? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u199	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much. As far as centralisation and decentralisation are concerned, of course, we are exactly the same thoughts. I've said that in my previous reply. I'm going to be building centralisation forever, and I'm going to be defending decentralisation. We have started doing this at the Ministry of Public Administration before the election campaign and we will be doing it in the future. As regards the implementation of these surveys or the determination of satisfaction. The Ministry of Public Administration is carrying out this exercise within the Ministry itself and the administrative units under its jurisdiction. This survey, which was carried out last year, was a project involving several public administrations. Of course, it is up to individual ministries to determine the satisfaction or dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens with the services they perform. So he doesn't run these polls for individual ministries then the Ministry of Public Administration. This is a duty and I think it is also the interest of each ministry to carry out these research and to have an insight into how citizens and citizens are satisfied with the services of each body or ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u201	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u202	I'm calling again. It's an interesting matter. It also concerns the public sector, which accounts for 170 000 people in the country. It also concerns all our citizens and citizens. However, I think it is right that, if there is a chance to have a broader debate on this, I suggest that this should also be done at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u203	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 April, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Zvonko Černač will raise an oral question to Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u204	Nice greeting to all present, especially Minister Počvalšk, to whom I refer the question concerning Kobilna Lipica. A quarter of a century ago, more specifically in 1996, the Law on Kobilna Lipica was passed. With it, the country recognized the importance of a cobial holding the 1580 anniversary and maintained the area in some way with a view to protecting and developing. With the law, an area covering just over 300 hectares of the area of cultivated karst landscape, along with the building and artistic heritage and herd of horses of the Lipica breed, was declared a cultural monument of exceptional importance for the Republic of Slovenia. However, a public institution has been set up to manage it. In view of the various activities carried out in the framework of Kobilarna Lipica, such an organisational form has in time proved inappropriate and was therefore entrusted to an economic company owned by the Republic of Slovenia by a new law adopted a good year ago. The Kobilirna Lipica therefore represents an important part of our cultural historical heritage, and the public is justifiably concerned when it reads about the bites and the decision of the government of Marjan Šarca of 28 March this year, which speaks of the granting of the free alienation of 95 Lipicas this year. The justification states that horses do not have any accounting value, whereas for those less than ten years of age or some less than five years of age and who do so, it is also stated that due to disease and permanent injury they do not have a sales value. So I'm wondering: What is the vision of the development of the Kobilar Lipica? Especially since the current minister was also a minister when this law was passed a good year ago. I want to know: Why did the government approve the non-payment of 95 lips? 47 Lipicans are said to be in the fold, so they will be given to the breeders. How will the other 48 lips be donated? By what criteria? Has this annual arrangement with the Lipicans been discussed by the concessionaire’s professional council, and when? What opinion did he take in this regard? Is this unpaid alienation of 95 Lipisans in line with the five-year monumental management plan? What is indicated in this plan as far as this work is concerned in the coming years? So: In the years to come, are the massive unpaid removals of our cultural and historical heritage expected in the same way as this year?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u205	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u206	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Zvonko Černač, honourable Member, thank you for the question. Kobalna Lipica is a high priority for our ministry in terms of proper breeding and breeding of Lipican horses, protection of cultural heritage, world-renowned tourist attractions, on the basis of which further development of the destination can be built. We have already demonstrated the membership of Kobilina Lipica in my ministry by co-financing investments in cultural heritage; over the past period, almost €8 million to improve conditions for breeding, breeding and training of Lipican horses, to improve the state of cultural heritage. Our aim is to better manage the Kobilarna Lipica area and make better use of the potential of the area for further development. That is why in 2018 we also received a new Law on Kobilirana Lipica, which also introduced a new organisation. The effects can only be assessed after a certain period of time and we must all get used to the changes first. However, the changes that have been introduced are: a revised concept of work by linking the profession in the field of horse riding and horse riding, a system of organised and professional training of horses, a renewed performance with horses and the creation of a new product Become a whisperer to horses, greater opportunities for financial stimulation of competent personnel and development in the area of the establishment of a genetic bank and an insemination centre. The results show an increase in the number of visitors, the highest in 2018 in the last 20 years and the increase in income. Kobilena Lipica, in this case a concessionary, must prepare an annual horse-use plan in accordance with the law, have prepared an annual plan for 2019 – currently owned by the Republic of Slovenia 406 horses from the cobilary. The horse is directly taken care of by 354 horses, 32 by tribal stallions, 77 by tribal mares, 83 by 4 years of age, 30 by 30 by 2018 and 132 by other horses. There are 52 horses, 51 horses and one horse. The annual horse management plan provides for the implementation of the transfer of ownership rights to 151 horses. For 95 horses with an estimated sales value of zero and 56 horses with a certain sales value of between EUR 200 and EUR 5 thousand, sales are envisaged. The intended disposal or sale shall be carried out by a cobalt on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, representing the income from this Title of the beneficial owner’s income. The annual plan estimates that this revenue will be good at €120,000. This conduct also ensures the optimisation of the costs of the supply of horses and enables capacity for new generations of horses. The transfer of ownership will mostly be carried out by existing foster parents. Those horses that are suitable for therapeutic purposes will also be used for this purpose. I wish to continue and continue to increase the international visibility, reputation and tourist attraction of this destination and of Slovenia as a whole with good work and planned development in Kobilana Lipica. However, I must say again that with this transfer 150 horses we provide room for new animals. I said earlier that in Lipica we have almost 80 mares, that in years ago we had barely 20 foie gras — annually, we have led this to 30 in the last two years. We need to rejuvenate the herd, and every year I want all the mares to be inseminated, so that we have much more lots than we have now, and that we will make room for young animals with this transfer. This is about horses that are older. If we are talking about the economy, everyone has to in some way – some of these horses will also be used for a tourist urchin and the rest will be made in this context to make room for new animals.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u207	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I did not get some answers, so I would have repeated it from the beginning and would have asked for the one that is essential — for my ideas: What's the vision of Lipice next? Will the part that manages the tourist work where it is allowed to partially privatise the entry of up to 50 minus 1 shares by private capital benefit or not? What is the vision of the development of tourism work? What is the vision of the development of horse labor? Has this five-year vision been adopted or not? Because by law, it's supposed to be until March 3rd this year. Is this sale in line with this vision? I didn't trouble you, Minister of Respect, 56 horses that sell. But I've troubled 95 Lipicans who are successful because I can't agree that they're worthless. There are many things in the balance sheet of the country that bookkeeping has no value but are still sold. These Lipicans, too, have a value, if not other, symbolic value. Also, the law clearly tells you in Article 32 that, even for lipicances, not only other things can be sold, leased or disposed of in accordance with the rules governing the handling of real property. And the law in paragraph 4 of this article says, "receives from sale, rent or disposal". Thus, even in the case of a different method of disposal, there must be revenue. So what message does the Government give to the public by giving the lipican a gift, because the herd of Lipican horses under the same law under the second paragraph of Article 23 is the indigenous breed of exceptional importance for the Republic of Slovenia — all horses regardless of their condition. But among those who are successful, I also told them, horses under the age of five. So I'm interested in: Will you propose to amend this part of the decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u209	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you. First of all, we've got horses, we've got mare and we've got stallions and we've got young animals, lots. In Lipica, all the older animals stayed in Lipica. We can't get into a situation where we don't have room for younger animals, but the older ones stay. It is not that the horse’s life span ranges from 25 to 35 years. [[…]] And when we talk about giving or some horses being of value nothing, we talk about older horses. What you've just said to the younger ones, I'm going to check it out myself. In any case, this programme was not made by the cobalt workers, but by the expert commission, in which the representatives of the external institutions are also – I think of the colleges. In any case, the aim is to reach a herd in which we will have a good number of tribal mares, an adequate number of stallions, young studs and lots, then horses suitable for training, and a new one we are also working on a tourist herd for riding, which is not the first league in terms of training. If we are to do all these things, we must also have room for new young animals. Anyway, once again, I'm going to check this claim about the younger horses with value. The Commission, which did so, was composed of cobial workers and external institutions. We have an investment plan. I have already said that we have invested €8 million in cultural and historical and this public hlavska part of the cobalarium, but we are also in the tourist work before the investment is made. In order to harmonise our business, we have a holding organisation because we do not want to have any more fences in Lipica between one and the other; it is said that we have a tourist market and a public part that is under one joint leadership. We are facing consolidation or completion of the management of the co-basin, because at this point we are meeting only with V.D. one of all these three jobs. On the other hand, there is a pure breeding plan, which you also mentioned, for this tribal work. However, it is important to ensure that all these four lines are represented in the relevant professional work and continue to be maintained in the breeding context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u211	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u212	I propose that, given that we have not received all the answers, I think the topic is important, and I see that the Minister also has the ambition to do something about it, which I personally support. Last time I checked, I don't care what's been going on in Lipica for the last 20, 25 years. I would be the first director of the newly established public office in 1996. And maybe just by the way, how the state took care of it then in 1997. Instead of the previous 50 million then tolars or whatever they were, the public service received 20 million less for the public service. So, from 50 to 30, even though this patronate was established. At the time, however, the co-balancing industry also demonstrated that it was able to operate and established its current business within a year on positive numbers, then political connotation changed and after a good year the management structure was replaced. Lipica has been swimming in some empty condition for many years, and in recent years she has received quite exceptional assistance from the State, as far as financial resources are concerned. As a result, it does not matter how and how these things will proceed in this masonry. I think it would be the most wrong way if, in the end, it were to prevail over an extremely marketed interest and that something that was not allowed to employees in 1996, because the cobalt was maintained and should not have been involved in ownership, has now occurred in 20 or 30 years in a different way, in order for the state to first push tens of millions into this area and then sell things in one way or another. I think that the topic is also important because of these specific issues that I have raised. You've been talking about what needs to be guaranteed. For the law, the former and the present, determined what the reproductive minimum was, and that is what it is to be observed. Now, out of 400 lipicans, there are almost half of them in one year, 150. I believe that this is necessary for future development, but it is not right to give a quarter of these lips a gift. It's not right! These Lipicans also have in fact, if you want a different symbolic value, even if someone gave a 100 euro donation for this Lipican, it would look completely different than being said to be donated or free of charge. In this Decision adopted by the Government 28. 3, you have 12 horses specially exposed, 12 Lipisans and among them are Lipisans of the year 2015, 2014, 2013 which are being vacated free of charge. I don't think that's right. I expect the Minister to verify that these matters will be answered, whether or not the expert council has dealt with them, what was the opinion that he would say whether this long-term plan, five years at all, was adopted, which the law stipulates should be in place within six months of the establishment of the new organisational scheme, which was 3. 9th last year established and to hold a debate on the future development and vision of Lipica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u213	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 April, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u214	Dear Vice President, thank you for saying so! On 17 November 2016, we entered into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia an article on the right to drinking water. This means, or should mean, that everyone has the right to drinking water, as well as that water resources are public goods that are primarily intended for the provision of drinking water to the population. The Circus 30 % of the population in Slovenia is individually supplied with drinking water and 9% of the smaller population. The problem is that water is treated very badly against water pollutants. The problem of drinking water and pollution in general are pesticides, herbicides, including nitrates and other heavy metals. Here I would like to point out the herbicide atrazine, which is currently the number 1 polluter of drinking water; especially in the environment from which I come; it is said, with Ptuja and Haloz, Dravsko Field and Prekmurje. I don't know how else you look at it, but since water is contaminated with herbicides and pesticides and nitrates, it's hard to call it potable, let alone to call it pure drinking water. That's why I'm interested in: What are the results of measurements of groundwater pollution and drinking water with atrazin and nitrates for the whole of Slovenia, and especially for the area of Drava fields, Haloz and Ptuj? What are the measures envisaged to remedy the existing situation? We probably can't just wait for atrazine to get lost and from the groundwater, if we know we can effectively eliminate it with carbon filters. What are the measures in the field of drinking water pollution with nitrates? What is the control over the use of atrazin, which has been banned in the Republic of Slovenia since 2002? However, it can still be purchased in neighbouring countries, such as Hungary or Croatia. High values in groundwater do not only indicate an extremely long cleaning process but also raise reasonable suspicion that the product is still being used. The problem of atrazin is also that it is very harmful, it is said, to affect heart functions, hormonal functions, as well as its half-life, it is said that it falls apart in water or in the environment, is somewhere between 105 days and 200 days, but can also be 10 years and more, and can therefore, unfortunately, cause a lot of cancer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u215	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you. You've already figured out the problem of atrazin. The problem is that it has a very long decaying period in nature. This herbicide has been banned for 17 years, something like that, but it still remains in nature. The Ministry of Agriculture has control over whether or not it is still in use. According to our data, we still find it, but it is better every year, indicating that it is probably no longer used, but it has remained in nature since it was allowed. But, I say, the Ministry of Agriculture is in control. The criteria and control of drinking water are defined and managed differently by the Ministry of Health, and we ensure that raw water, groundwater, is good. We also carry out monitoring within our ministry. This monitoring is being carried out for us, Arso. The water bodies monitoring programme for last year included 14 water bodies. Good chemical status was found in 11 and bad in 3 water bodies, in Savinjska, Dravski and Murski. Of the 176 measuring points included in the monitoring in 2018, 23 measuring points exceeded the quality standard laid down in the Subterranean Water Regulation. We have a different water management plan for Donava for the period 2016 to 2021. There are quite a few measures listed there. As regards pesticide measures for agricultural nitrates, the Ministry of Agriculture shall implement these measures. In addition to these measures, 7 new ones have been added, and one of these new measures is the re-measure in relation to the protection of groundwater, which is mainly a source of drinking water and are at risk of nitrate pollution. The main holder of this measure is the Ministry of Agriculture. Our task now is to adopt regulations on the water protection area, which we are still missing for the Ormož Municipality and for the area of the waterworks. That's what we're doing now. Moreover, what we are going to do now is to bring about a change in the Water Act, where we want to make it even clearer in the law, what can be put anywhere or where it builds in which water protection area, so that we can clear up any uncertainties that still exist in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u217	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. That's the problem. I come from an environment where nitrate pollution in drinking water increases or continues to increase. Even in aquifers, we have two different aquifers, one shallower and one deeper. In fact, nitrates have already reached a depth of between 40 and 200 meters. So the nitrates have already come to this depth, and the problem is that then the water mixes from both aquifers to get to some kind of solid drinking water. This was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors in its audit report on the effectiveness of the long-term conservation of drinking water sources since the end of March of this year, which included monitoring the efficiency of the Ministry in the long-term conservation of drinking water resources for 2016 and 2017. I'm asking you: How do we provide safe and clean water, which is the responsibility of the State, including those covered by individual water cover? Will they receive any appropriate filters or assistance in these matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u219	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u220	Yes, there have been nitrates in the deep aquifer as well. Now you find out why. Most likely, when drilling into this deep aquifer, this transfer occurred. Once this is established, if this is true, then measures must be taken to stop it. As for the private coverage of private water pipelines, right now, as part of the working group dealing with the harmonisation of legislation with the registration of the right to drinking water, we also set out a way of controlling and assisting such coverage, so I expect that by the end of the year, when this group has to finish, we will also know what control the country will have over the measures and aid. As part of this Inter-Resortary, however, it has already been established and we will now bring the law into Parliament to fund municipalities as well, to build water pipelines where it is not possible to obtain European funds, that is to say when we are talking about a population below 10,000 PE.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u221	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u222	Your Honor, thank you again for your word. Since we must not allow article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to become just a letter on paper, and we must all make every effort to implement legislation as quickly as possible and to harmonise legislation as possible, I propose that we hold a broader debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u223	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 April, in the framework of the votes. The Magnificent Messenger. Marko Pogačnik will raise an oral question to Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u224	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Economy, I would like to ask you a question below, namely, what measures your Ministry has proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to relieve the economy. The analysis itself showed and the opinion of the Chamber of Economics and Chamber of Commerce is that the economy in Slovenia is too burdened by administrative measures and, last but not least, by taxes. Your government has been active for more than 8 months, so I was wondering if you could tell me: What measures did your ministry propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to relieve the economy? Finally, even last week, we were able to hear a statement by the President of the Government that the Government is working hard and helping the economy to relieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u225	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u226	Dear Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Mr Marko Pogačnik, Commissioner, thank you for the question. We pay particular attention to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology of Economic Deployment. The business environment must be stable, competitive and, above all, predictable. In my previous mandate, I have proposed concrete measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and, following the appearance of the Government of Marjan Šarca, at my initiative, I have first appointed the Expert Council for a competitive and stable business environment. It acts as an expert consultative body, consisting of prominent representatives of entrepreneurs, chambers, associations and representatives of the Ministry. In the context of a comprehensive tax reform, we have joined several ministries – despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance, including the Ministry of Labour, has been involved in an important work, the Ministry of the Economy – to conclude that we are proposing or that we will increase net wages and relieve the regress and rewards for business performance and, on the other hand, to tax capital more. When we talk about economic burdens, we should not only have in mind tax burdens, but we can also achieve the burden by amending legislation, removing various administrative barriers to the economy and other measures. Let me just mention some of the measures that we are implementing with a view to decommissioning the economy, or have proposed them at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We have proposed agreements to facilitate trade relations between countries and reduce customs rates to the governments of Marjan Šarc. We have supported specific partnership agreements with Japan, a package of agreements with Singapore. The views on negotiations with the United States are also important in our view, because directly and indirectly they will have an important impact on our economy. Last October, on my proposal, the government of Marjan Šarca also set up an interdepartmental working group to re-establish the system of governance, where existing legislation is currently being examined and possible improvements in this area will be proposed this year. A test for SMEs, a test carried out to reduce administrative burdens and improve the business environment for all laws proposed by the Government, has been carried out to the full. These are simple incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises provided by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. This is the fastest and easiest way to access money for small and medium-sized enterprises. From this year to 2023, 22 and a half million euros and 4 and a half million euros per year will be made available to small and medium-sized enterprises. An action plan for startups has been developed which removes obstacles and relieves entrepreneurs in the start-up area. We continue to maintain tax reliefs for research, development, which is a major financial burden for businesses and the economy. We know that it was quite an appetite for these reliefs to be lifted. We estimate that the unpaid profit tax has been EUR 273 million since 2014 for the benefit of this benefit. In March, on my proposal, the government of Marjan Šarca also established the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Corporate Governance. As part of its efforts to improve corporate governance and the greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, the Council will also address initiatives to relieve the economy. On 28 March, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also gave special attention to the small economy and appointed the Secretary of State of the Government, Mr Franc Vesell, who will also work towards improving the situation for the economy, in particular for crafts and entrepreneurship. From the very beginning, my work at the Ministry has focused on improving the economic situation. We will continue our work so far and expand the Ministry's range of activities to relieve the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u227	Mr Member, you have the floor to submit a request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u228	Dear Minister, thank you for your answers. This sounds good, but I don't know where all the measures you've listed are going to stop. About nine months of your government, and in Parliament we have had three meetings, I repeat, three regular meetings of the Committee on the Economy, of which one is the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union, the Proposal for a Rebalance of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 and the Proposal for a Law on Business Mystery. These were regular meetings of the Committee on the Economy in Parliament. The balance of the budget for 2019 has been torn apart by both the economic and the craftsmen's chambers. In fact, it is an additional burden on the economy, and according to the Economic Chamber's estimates, in the future these measures adopted by this government will be measured in billions of euros to the detriment of the economy. Then we had a few more emergency meetings, of which Mark Bandelli, the candidate for minister, presentation of Zdravko Restovalska, then we had some meetings convened by Levica. Dear Minister, I expect more of these measures, concrete measures to relieve the economy, such as in the area of taxes, such as administrative barriers and, last but not least, excise policies. The excise policy, particularly in the field of oil derivatives, also has an impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. I'm sure – okay, some of the measures have already been taken in the previous term, some of them mentioned by you, some seen directly through Parliament, some seen indirectly. But I personally expect more, and I think the economy as well. Above all, I am convinced that on one side you must take into account the requirements and proposals of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce. Last but not least, I expect to see this in the adoption of the 2020 budget balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u229	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u230	Commissioner, as you have said, I can reiterate that we have been relatively active, with many problems still, in removing administrative obstacles. After all, this test is for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are only applicable to the laws proposed by the ministries, the ones that have been fully revived in the second half of last year, and I believe that we will not adopt any more legislation or law that will have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. I expect that these proposals, which we have coordinated as a Government in terms of the continuation of tax reform in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of the Economy, will reach a relatively rapid debate in the National Assembly, so that we can reach what is envisaged in this reform – a complete relief in the field of regression, further relief in the area of rewards in the companies themselves. Once again, I think that it is a big deal, that we have managed to maintain and that we will retain the benefits for research, development, innovation and investment. We also consider this to be one of our, Slovenian, key competitive advantages for domestic and, above all, foreign investors. However, I can say that, as the Ministry of Economy, we will continue to strive to ensure that the conditions of economy do not deteriorate or improve them. The fact is that we are highly export oriented that 80% of everything we do is exported and therefore our economy must be competitive in the external markets. Now we can't just discuss the story here at home. Of course, additional international issues contribute to this competitiveness. We have two major threats to our economic growth. One is external, so we can't influence it, it's a possible trade war between the United States and the European Union, because of our commitment to Germany and the automotive industry, it can have a lot of negative effects on our economy. On the other hand, we have one key domestic problem that we can influence, which is the lack of labour that we want to address through the part that is at the Employment Institute, through the pension generation, through faster integration of young people into the labour market and through labour imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u231	The next question will be asked by Ambassador Franz Rosec, Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Topolšica Hospital will celebrate 100 years of existence this year, but unfortunately we can witness that both the future of the hospital and the future of its facilities are very uncertain. Let me add some starting points for an explanation. On 12 June 2017, a civil initiative was established as a result of the decision of the current government to merge the Topolšica Hospital and the Celje General Hospital, in particular due to a lack of clarity as to what this merger brings. At the Ministry of Health at the time, they ensured that it was not the abolition of the Topolšica Hospital, but the reorganisation. It has also been ensured that the solution to this new reorganisation will be presented by the end of June 2017, which of course never happened and we do not know today whether this solution already exists or does not exist. We are also witnessing the collapse of buildings that used to be hospital buildings, such as Smrečina and Breda, and show the appearance of a tourist place such as Topolšica. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Do you finally have a plan at the Ministry for the reorganization of Topolšica Hospital? What are you planning on doing with the decaying objects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u233	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members, Mr Rosec! The story, as you mentioned before, is relatively long. Maybe a little chronology around Topolšica Hospital. Topolšica Hospital in 2018 realised revenue of more than EUR 11 million, in the financial plan for 2018 it planned a deficit of EUR 409 000 796, with an overexpenditure of EUR 134 000 594. On day 31. 12. In 2018, the balance sheet showed an excess of expenditure over total revenue of EUR 751 000 904. On day 31. 12. 2018, the hospital showed outstanding maturity of EUR 1 million 53 000 293, representing almost 10% of total revenue in 2018. Topolšica Hospital has also prepared a rehabilitation programme in 2018 in line with the starting points of the recovery committee. The approved recovery programme envisaged the establishment of a positive business in 2020 and the completion of the recovery is expected to be the same in 2020. In 2018, the hospital successfully implemented its remedial measures. They were planned at 152 000 and reached EUR 166 000 934, which is 109% of the impact. However, Topolšica Hospital is still in a difficult liquidity situation due to the implementation of investment investments in energy recovery between 2012 and 2017, but then without adequate resources. Despite the careful implementation of all activities to improve current operations, this is the achievement of a programme under the contract with the Institute of Health Insurance, the exercise of control over the consumption of medical material and other materials and services, the extension of payment deadlines for obligations to suppliers, procedures for the sale of real estate not directly related to the activities of the hospital, recovery, open claims, was at 31. 3. 2019 amount of outstanding liabilities to suppliers and the Single Account Plan for EUR 1 million 196 000 87, representing more than 10 % of total operating revenue 2018. The immediacy of the hospital seriously endangers its business, which is also reflected in the disruptions in the supply of medicines and other materials and, of course, the delays in paying taxes and wage contributions. At the beginning of this month, Topolšica also submitted an application to the Ministry of Health for additional funding from the State budget of EUR 2 million, €509 thousand, for payment of outstanding liabilities, but a decision has not yet been taken by the founder. The Ministry only assesses the long-term sustainability and smooth implementation of healthcare and health care for residents in the area through the provision of budgetary resources. Topolšica Hospital estimates a balanced business in 2019. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes a decision on the payment of its outstanding liabilities from the budget, normal professional development, the planning of new processes and the introduction of new materials will be possible for the hospital. Topolšica Hospital has also made significant progress in information and automation in the work process in recent years, and further development and progress in this area will allow reduced workload, better use of personnel and equipment. The cost of work of the Topolšica Hospital currently amounts to 61% of the total cost of the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u235	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u236	Thank you for this financial balance sheet. I was more specifically interested because I asked your predecessor once informally if anything was going on on this project. And he said, wait a minute, come after the new year, and we'll explain to you at the Ministry what the plan or vision of the ministry is. Well, unfortunately your predecessor stepped down. And I'm curious, but there's a group of people out there that's still doing this work or some vision. Nor did you answer me, because there are two objects – now I do not know if you have been there yet, I invite you there to look at those two objects because no one knows what to do with them. So, I just want to know if there's ever a reorganisation planned because we all know that we're in trouble, we need some money – what is Topolšica's vision for the future? Is she going to stand or not? Is there gonna be any other program? I'd expect a vision from a minister or a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u237	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. The key decision is, of course, at the Ministry, as I said in the introduction, about these additional funds amounting to 2 million and so much for the payment of outstanding liabilities. I am not informed about the work of the group at this time, and of course we will also inform you in writing how far this project or the work of this working group is. However, what I would like to add to the hospital is that in 2017, the hospital had already received funds from the state budget for the establishment of the state budget, amounting to EUR 661 thousand 230 for the payment of the hospital's liabilities, EUR 409 thousand 985 for the reimbursement of the hospital's liabilities and EUR 825 thousand 262 for the payment of the surplus of income. So just a quick collection of these numbers actually says that in the last period or in recent years it has been quite invested. And, of course, I think it makes sense that these things, which you yourself have been talking about, somehow agree that this project group will prepare a final solution for the hospital alone. Of course, I will also be happy to respond to your invitation and familiarize myself with the situation on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u239	Let's move on to the next one. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert will raise an oral question to Defence Minister Karl Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! Very specific, and above all a serious question: Why are you destroying the Slovenian Army? I repeat: Why are you destroying the Slovenian Army? Look, that's not what I'm saying. That's what the numbers say, and that's what the facts say. Let me mention just some. First of all, you as a minister with a kilometer, here we are not talking about a minister who for the first time performs a function or is in that position for a month, you've allowed yourself a statement that should make you give up. In fact, you said: "The Slovenian soldiers will still be shooting at Postojna." With this you have already demotivated the Slovenian Army not only humiliated it, but compared it with an aggressor army. The army, the respectable, the soldiers and the soldiers are appalled at what you have afforded. They shot their own citizens! And you know, you can't say you missed that. That's the kind of thing that doesn't get in. This is one big kick that you just shouldn't afford and you should take responsibility for it. Even more so, because just before your ministry, we know in what way, you solved Commander Škerbinc, who was commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces. However, the arguments for this, in public, do not hold that what you have stated is not true, and with this you have done new harm to the Slovenian Army. Who do you trust who you don't trust, what your relationship with the chief is, I don't care. As a citizen, I, as well as other citizens, am particularly interested in the work of the Slovenian Army. And what's the worst thing about all this? That the trend of departures from the Slovenian Army continues to increase compared to arrivals in the Slovenian Army. We have fewer Slovenian soldiers and soldiers every day, and on the other hand we have growing problems at our borders, concerning illegal migrants, where the Slovenian Army is supposed to help and will probably have to help. So, Minister, once again, I ask you: Why are you destroying the Slovenian Army?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u241	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members, Members, fellow Ministers! Thank you very much for your question, but your question, of course, is completely wrong. I suppose no one believes in this hall that Karl Erjavec is the one who destroys the Slovenian Army. Karl Erjavec was Minister of Defence from 2004 to 2008 when we joined NATO and achieved excellent results. We were even close to 2%. But it's true that I was in another government that was your favorite government. That is why this assessment is excessive and is a policy assessment. When the economic and financial crisis occurred in 2009, funds for the defence system were significantly reduced. Nearly half of these funds were taken away, so the military actually had only the means to pay salaries and some minimum material costs. You say Karl Erjavec is guilty of destroying the Slovenian Army. I wonder what's been going on for the last 10 years. Karl Erjavec was not Secretary of Defense at the time. But it's true, as I said, that a large part of the defense funds have been seized. Practically in 10 years there was no greater investment in equipment, wages fell, they were lower than at the time I was first Minister of Defence; also because of the infamous Zuyf, who envisaged austerity measures because we know what the situation was like for Slovenia. That's when it was even threatened with a threesome. Some even invited this threesome. But fortunately, Slovenia has risen, and the economic situation has improved. I took over the Defence Department last September, and when I took a closer look at the situation, I saw that this economic and financial crisis had caused much damage to the defence system, that plans such as the medium-term defence programme did not meet the objectives we have to achieve if we are to fulfil all those commitments that this country has made to international organisations. That is why it was my step to produce a white book that will soon see the light of the world and give answers to what needs to be done in order for the Slovenian Army to be in the same condition as it was. Regardless of the fact that the last years since 2012, the Slovenian Army, as far as war is concerned, has received negative assessments – but I can say that only when it comes to the readiness of the Slovenian Army in the war, when it comes to the readiness of the Slovenian Army in peace, can I say that the Slovenian Army carries out everything by law and also those tasks assigned to it. That's what it says at home and abroad. As we can be proud of the fact that, as far as missions are concerned, we are even carrying out these tasks on average. I am sure that citizens and citizens are also pleased when it comes to the work of the Slovenian Army when it comes to cases of natural disasters. They were always praised. In doing so, let me say that the Slovenian Army is also carrying out certain other tasks. As for the Commander, the Force Commander, look, the Chief of Staff has the right to propose his discharge, and she has proposed this, I have signed this order. I don't see any issue with that. He was appointed without explanation, he was relieved without explanation. It's just a military system that defines some other logic as it applies to the civilian sphere.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u243	Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u244	Thank you very much. You mentioned the government, you said, to me, a better government. It is not about a loving government, you said, that government had results, but because it also had clear objectives and it supported the Slovenian Army and the need for the Slovenian Army in this country. Unlike this government. You haven't actually answered any questions for me. Not even so many of you are here to apologize to the general public for the statement you said about the shooting in Postojna. Now, about the populist issues. See, populism – is it to you that the departures are increasing? Is it populism that many Slovenian soldiers are in psychological and social distress, even because they have bad incomes? And now there's something else about you inheriting some things. That's right. We don't open these questions for the first time. But you are obviously following this policy, which was also under the previous mandate. If we looked at how many meetings we referred to the theme of the Slovenian Army and the situation in the Slovenian Army, then we would see that this issue was not meant for you alone. But the fact is, you're following this. And one more thing, Minister, you took under your tactics the supplement that General Geder gave under his previous mandate. This supplement was very important for the Slovenian Army. Last but not least, it was only a small one, partly equivalent to the fact that they are similar after payments with police officers who are borderline and who are dealing with illegal migrants. You took this! Then, of course, you write down, if you, we'll look for another solution. Find a solution first, then take it! But not to take it, but now we're looking for a solution. These are your actions over the past six months. So don't talk about me going popular. And let me answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u245	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I must say, I'm sorry if you found out that I convicted you of some populism, but I can say that you have no knowledge of talking about things you don't know. You're talking about the supplement that Mr. Geder gave, that's the Major General, and that's without legal basis. It was illegality. The audit found that the supplement was illegal. It is not possible for 5,600 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to have supplements to work in response forces. Do you believe that we have 5,600 members of the Slovenian Army in response?Oh, my God! This was an illegal measure by Major General Geder. I don't know if you're forcing me to continue to act unlawfully? Are you trying to get me wrong? That's why I doubt you're going into populism. I don't think you know the thing, that you're basically saying something in your head. This measure has been given or is received by all soldiers who are in response or who are additionally burdened. Like our members on the southern border or something. Or the ones in the drills. So don't talk at all and in general. I would recommend you before you make any claims to review matters. You are a member of the National Assembly, but this does not give you the right to criticize and condemn at once. Once again, this action by General Geder was illegal. That's what the audit found. As far as my rhetorical question is concerned. Given that the orientations of the current minister and the previous ministers are not respected, we therefore have great problems as regards the Municipality of Postojna. They canceled the deal. Why did they cancel it? Because the Slovenian Army didn't stick to the agreement. And as Minister, I am obliged to ensure that the Slovenian Army obeys orders and respects government decisions. So the rhetorical question is what happens next time. And that's why I have nothing to apologize for. But with this sentence, I wanted to say what is the situation in some structures in the Slovenian Army when orders are given when direction is not respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u247	Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u248	Minister, you're the last person to tell me that I'm calling for non-compliance. You are sitting in a government that violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And secondly, how well I know things! And if it was an illegal matter - did you inform Minister Katičeva? Did you incriminate her?Oh, my God! This is what I expect from you now, because you said out loud that it was an illegal thing. And second of all, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Don't jump into my word. Don't jump into my word! [[advertising from the hall]] Don't jump into my word. Please, my time is running out. Second of all, it's not true that I don't know things. I've made it clear to you that if you're shutting this down because of some arguments, then first find a solution and then you can put an end to the matter. No, you took that supplement from these people and they don't have it anymore today! They don't have him anymore, no. Not to that extent. Minister, I know things very well, believe me. Trust me. And second of all. I really ask that you never speak again to shoot Slovenian soldiers and soldiers at their own citizens. Really. You're the Minister of Defense, and don't embarrass this country, and don't insult the people who are in the country's service! Yeah, and they're on missions. Don't laugh, Minister. You insult these people and their families and you hurt them. I absolutely demand that this matter be discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly, because, as it is said, we have an increasingly poor situation, and the Minister here mocks, and the Minister says that we all have ignorance, but of course he does not do his own work because he is not capable of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. And maybe a warning. The ministers and ministers invited to this meeting are also obliged to respect the parliamentary order laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Anyone who is called to the word and to the answer gets the word. We don't deny it to anyone, and I think it's very rude that it then falls into the word of a Member commenting on the matter. Now let's get on with it. Member Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I'm going to repeat the question I've posed to your predecessor. He set Lebnu up at a January session, and because of his absence and his subsequent departure, I was unable to respond. During the last 41 years, the plague and its wider environment have been affected by three earthquakes, the latest on 12 July 2004. About 800 buildings were damaged at the time, and 685 facilities were included in the earthquake recovery program. This year it will be 15 years since the earthquake, and the rehabilitation of damaged facilities is not yet completed. On the basis of a decision by the Government in September 2009, the Ministry of the Environment and Space provided the public with a list of facilities damaged by the 2004 earthquake. At the same time, the owners of the property, which had a damaged property in the municipalities of Bovec, Kobarid, Tolmin, Cerkno and Idrija, called for a written application for the inclusion of the facility in the earthquake recovery programme to be made available to them. At the public invitation of the Ministry of Environment and Space, more than 100 applications were made and in 2017 only experts reviewed 93 buildings, 43 residential, 20 business and business buildings, 18 economic facilities, 5 sacral facilities and 7 local infrastructure facilities. As it is said, it will be 15 years from the earthquake this year, so I ask the Minister for Environment and Space Simon Rabbit: How much funding is made available for renewal in the 2019 State Budget? When will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be able to complete the reconstruction of its consequences? What was the fate of the facilities to be added to the rehabilitation programme at the request of the ILO in 2009? When will the State Technical Office close its work, and how will its rich archive and documentation be provided? I thank Minister Zajc in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u251	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u252	Thank you for saying, thank you for asking. Maybe I'll go in the back. The state technical office will exist until recovery is complete. We expect to complete recovery within 2 years of stable funding and with the cooperation of individual owners. So far, we have spent 69 million on this, and we are also predicting that the total recovery will cost 76 million. So far, 344 facilities have been restored, so we have completed these facilities. Currently, 98 buildings are in the process of rebuilding, of which 14 are in physical execution and others are in the previous stages, from design to financing regulation. These procedures also include objects from the call you mentioned in your question. The national technical office shall cover all the areas necessary for the smooth operation of the service to the injured persons of the country, namely, assistance to the injured in deciding on the manner in which individual facilities are restored, the conduct of decision-making procedures, the acquisition of administrative building permits, the supervision of construction operations and both technical and financial assistance and legal assistance. But close when we're done with the recovery. All documentation will be archived in accordance with the archiving and instructions of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, just as it was done in the event of reconstruction after the earthquake in 1998.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u253	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u254	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask the Minister if he can provide me with a list of facilities that were included in the earthquake recovery on the basis of an appeal from the Ministry of the Environment in 2009. As it is said, at the time around 100 applications were further sent to the owners of the damaged facilities, both individuals and some local communities. I want to know how many of these 100 buildings actually came into the earthquake recovery program. I don't know if I understand exactly, I don't think you've told me how much money there is in the rebalancing of the state budget for 2019 this year, this year's work for an earthquake recovery. However, since we do not yet have the budgets adopted for 2020 and 2021, if I have correctly understood that two more years should be needed in addition to the recovery this year, it is said for 2020 and 2021, in the budgets to provide funding for this additional rehabilitation of all facilities, so that it will finally be after 15 years, or if we look at another 2 years, after 17 years, the earthquake recovery finally ended in 2004 that affected the Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u255	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u256	The honourable Member, if you agree, would also send you this sum of what is in the balance this year, because I do not know what is out of her head right now, at the same time as this list of objects sent at the time of this call.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u257	We're moving on. Ambassador Tomaž Lisec will ask an oral question to the Minister without the resources responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion of Dr Iztok Purič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u258	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues, all of them a good greeting! An article from the most probably read Slovenian portal, today: “Slovenia has absorbed only 20% of European money.”On the other hand, social networks report that Croatia boasts that the European Union will build bridges, viaducts, railways, we have a number of problems in drawing European funds. The use is too slow. In four out of six years of the last financial perspective, only one fifth of the money spent is spent. There are several reasons; long-term procedures, too much red tape and perhaps constantly changing the heads of cohesion policy. That is why, Minister, I have a few generals, and then, depending on your answer, I also have specific questions. I want to know: What did you do in the first weeks of managing your department? What are you going to do until summer 2019 in your department? What will you do by the end of 2019 to improve the figures on European funding? Have you prepared any reorganisation of your department to make pumping more effective? How are preparations for the next European perspective, 2021-2027? And for starters, one last question. In view of the report on the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy by December 2018, the information system is seen as one of the key problems. In this regard, I am interested in: What are you or will you do in this area? So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u259	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member! The Government Development Service and European Cohesion Policy shall operate on the basis of the operational programme adopted for the period of the existing financial perspective 2014-2020. In speaking about the level of achievement of the desired targets, as we are all aware that the objective of 100 per cent of the use of European funds is in line with the previous financial perspective, I would like to point out first that this is an extremely demanding process involving four phases. The first is the allocation of funds to the intermediate bodies, which means the allocation of funds from our government service to specific ministries. I can say that, as of March of this year, this allocation was 2 billion and a half, which means that, if we realize that all funds are good, the percentage is relatively high. The second phase is the task of indirect bodies, ministries, to put it simply, is to conclude contracts with direct beneficiaries of funds. To date, these are almost €2 billion. Contracts concluded, which means that concrete implementation. The third phase of this process is the implementation projects. When the project is completed, the concrete users, the beneficiaries address their applications to the ministries and they pay through the Ministry of Finance the funds established from the budget of Slovenia. To date, these were almost 700 million, 678 million accurate. And the fourth phase, this is what is also the subject of the general debate, is this 20%, and this is the reimbursement from the European Union back to the state budget. And these are for 600 million at the moment. It is true that this is at first sight a poor result, but it is necessary to be aware of the investment cycle, at the beginning slowly, and then the whole thing progresses. It is linked to concrete projects of specific stakeholders, according to stakeholders. I think that we all know together that individual projects are easier to plan than to make them happen. What is particularly important to me right now is that, if we are talking about the period 2014 to today, there are two financial perspectives that overlap, and if we combine this, the sum that Slovenia has acquired, we can talk about two billion, which is significantly more than just in this financial perspective. As for your question of what I have done in these three months, I personally assess that significantly less than I expected at the beginning and as well as your legitimate expectations. What we solved in the first moment is the conclusion of the quarterly report for last year and the resulting action plan. I think that this has been adopted, and this clearly defines all the necessary tasks that need to be carried out within the government service, of course, with success and, I will say, creative cooperation with all ministries, is said to those involved in concrete projects. The question of reorganisation. In particular, in the field of information technology, we have made both minor organisational and human resources changes, and at this point I can say that the effects are already visible. With regard to programming for the next financial perspective, it is only that in view of numerous visits [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Will it be over? I can wrap this up. In view of the numerous visits made by stakeholders in the field, this is the most up-to-date issue and I assure you that the service will ensure the participation of all actors in the design and management of programming.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u261	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u262	Thank you. I am pleased that we both know the procedures for drawing on European funds and that, like me, you are also as honest as I am that you do not know everything that you are trying to do and that you wanted to do more. Dear Minister, I hope you are aware that you are at least financially the second richest minister of this government. The Minister of Finance takes care of all the finances, and you hope the state will get 4 billion. If we attach this to municipal and state tenders, which were co-financed by up to 80% of the European Union in the richest years, and even if only 20%, 30% of the European Union is funded, I hope you are aware of the responsibility on your shoulders. I have a few more specific questions. I'm asking you: How pleased are you with your cooperation with the ministries and local communities? Do you still expect or will you fix the information system’s shortcomings? Are there any other key problems that you think are most problematic in order to avoid achieving what we all have in common the goal of – 100 per cent drawing on European funds? How successful are you in working with individual regional development agencies to agree on regional development? And since we were talking about four billion, which are your basic concrete cases on which you will assess whether you have done your job positively or even done it with an excellent evaluation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u263	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u264	If I continue where I have run out of time, the information systems are certainly a problem, as I expected at the hearing session, it was said that this could be arranged quickly. However, it is a complex information system, because it is not only connected in our service, but with the Ministry of Finance, with MFERAC and eCA, it is said by a system that allows applications to be sent to the European Commission. Given that you have also asked what we want – we have a new external contractor. In the past, we have now begun unsuccessful cooperation with a new and hopeful new team and the willingness of employees to stabilise the issue and far from being resolved definitively because it is such a complex system. I'm disappointed about this answer, but that's the way it is. What I think is very important and what you are asking – our cooperation, at least in my opinion, with the ministry is very good. However, I think that we all see together that cooperation is crucial to achieving a common objective, and this is 100 per cent to make use of European funds, because from the crisis forward these funds are referred to as the only development means, which is not entirely, completely smart from the point of view of development. As far as local communities are concerned, I must say that in this relatively short period of time I am meeting a number of associations, it is said with the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, SOS, ZOS, city municipality. I think there's more to this association. I think it would make sense for us to meet together at one point, but we will discuss the same things, in particular with regard to both cohesion regions. These are key, and, as you know, without their support, no operational programme will be adopted. This week, however, we meet with the city’s congregations. Their expectations are enormous, in particular because of what I wanted to emphasise earlier – the agreement for the development of the regions has created a sense of mistrust in some, and we want to establish this trust in their way of participating in all of the activities of our service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u265	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u266	Thank you, Vice President. Given the business details, I propose that we hold a debate at the next meeting on the drawing-up of European funds. For, as it is said, it is 4 billion European, or if you want, even Slovenian money, for which it is right to spend it by the end of 2021 or how much time it is then available. I thank you, Your Honor, for this general introductory part. You must've rolled up your sleeves. However, given that the European Union Committee on Affairs does not somehow wish to consider a partial report, that the President of the Government has doubts about whether to act in the European Parliament, and that European elections are ahead of us, it is also right that before the European elections this National Assembly faces a serious issue of how to draw 4 billion European funds. Finally, there may be some new ideas about how to make use of or obtain new funds if we are too far behind. Mr. Minister, a specific case. At the end of our previous perspective, Members of Parliament and former Minister Cernac came up with a very good idea, in my opinion: to draw on European funds for the energy renovation of buildings owned by local communities. I believe that there may be another new idea within the 90 members of the National Assembly, where we could also give you a path to where to ask different European funds, whether it is possible to restructure some 100 million euros and draw them. Last but not least – at least two ministers I see here – the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Infrastructure would be pleased to receive some positive and good hint about drawing on European funds. Finally, I think that it would not only be necessary to discuss drawing on the current European perspective, but that the National Assembly must also take very seriously what Slovenia wants by drawing on European funds after 2021, in the next European perspective. If there is no surprise, the mandate of this Assembly of the State will end in 2022, when it is too late for the next team or Members or Ministers to think about it, but, like you, it will have to roll up their sleeves. In short, the arguments why to take a serious approach not only to the debate in the National Assembly but also to the serious functioning are more than sufficient, so I also propose a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u267	Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 April 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Natasa Sukić will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags an oral question. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u268	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, in recent years he has had a painful experience of bullying a boy in the school environment because of poverty, as well as a knife fight between students in Murski Sobota, which has led to two minors’ end up in the hospital. Intergenerational violence, bullying between children after school and on the Internet, is said to be on social networks, in a virtual space where we can easily find a false identity, unfortunately, over the last decade throughout Europe. Finally, an in-depth study or study carried out in Sweden also discusses this. Of course, a variety of mechanisms have been developed, methods to reduce this somehow, to prevent, but unfortunately, quite unsuccessful. The police also act when such matters arise, but, of course, it is very different, because when it comes to minors, this is a very specific matter, but the children's rights must be considered first and foremost. After all, children are not the ones being convicted and therefore the matter is complicated. This is precisely why other services need to be taken here, especially social work centres, are extremely necessary here, because they also have access to parents, and parents know that if they are not responsive, if they do not participate in school with teachers, with principals and so on, if their child is violent, of course things become more complicated. Then there are different psychologists and other experts needed to get into the matter. But what if these jobs don't do it well enough or when they kind of cancel? I'm asking you: Where do you see the key problems in this matter? Are you going to take any additional measures, develop mechanisms that might at least ease this problem, eradicate it and thus fail to do so? I have another question that may also be addressed to the Minister for Education, but I believe that in this case these ministries are probably working well together. I want to know: Do you agree with the expert assessment that teachers need to complete skills from, for example, developmental and social psychology and appropriate leadership training? Would you recommend to the Minister that these trainings be included in teacher education programmes? So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u269	Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. With regard to your question, I would like to point out in the introduction that we pay particular attention to this issue at the Ministry. Family policy in Slovenia pays particular attention to taking care of children, protecting them, following the greatest benefits of children. In order to ensure quality, healthy and safe childhood and to ensure the well-being of the opportunities for successful development in all areas, the State shall take care of a functioning and effective family protection system while adopting appropriate educational, health and other programmes as well as measures that ensure the well-being of children and thus provide special protection and protection to the most vulnerable individual family members, that is, children. First of all, I would like to point out the preparation of a new so-called programme for children 2019-2024, which we have already been intensively preparing at the Ministry since the beginning of our mandate. We create it together with local communities, NGOs and other relevant stakeholders and will address the issue of children in an integrated and comprehensive manner. This is a self-sustaining and programming document that will set out precisely the objectives and measures to improve the situation of children, of course also in the areas of prevention of violence, assistance to victims of crime, sexual abuse and so on. The purpose of the programme is to set basic objectives and measures in the field of children's rights and the welfare and quality of life of children. During the period 2019-2024, the programme will raise the level of child welfare, ensure equal opportunities for all children, rights, better protection and child protection, and improve the possibility of inclusion and cooperation. Priority areas will be: life without violence for all children, including prevention of peer-to-peer violence; children's rights in the digital environment, with an emphasis on online security, and consequently prevention of sexual abuse in the digital environment; a child-friendly justice within which children's houses should be exposed by the Icelandic model Barnahus; and, last but not least, the participation of children in the procedures concerned. I would also like to highlight in particular the preparation of a new strategic document, a resolution on the national programme for the prevention of domestic violence and violence against women, which will include activities for the period 2018-2024. On the basis of this resolution, an action plan will also be drawn up to prevent domestic violence and violence against women and girls. This is a comprehensive strategic document that the Ministry is preparing and is already coordinating intersectorally. The Ministry also co-financed programmes to support the family. These are quality and widely accessible programmes based on modern concepts of support and self-help and are aimed at children, adolescents and their families and have a positive impact on improving the quality of life of both individuals and societies. The programmes are primarily intended for victims of sexual abuse and victims of crime. I would also point out that the Ministry has co-financed 15 multi-generation centres, which are evenly geographically dispersed across Slovenia, on the basis of a call for proposals since 2016. Funding for projects is provided under the budget and is partly provided by the European Union from the European Social Fund. The total available amount by 2021 amounts to EUR 8.6 million. I would also like to mention the project in which our ministry is involved, the so-called Cancel Project, with which we have also successfully applied for funds on the call for proposals from the European Commission. The aim of the project is to upgrade existing national activities to prevent online violence by including gender perspectives in teaching and other materials, education and education modules and recommendations and measures. The main objectives are to raise awareness of the prevention, elimination and modification of attitudes towards online violence and harassment of women and girls across Slovenia, to increase the sensitivity of the knowledge of young potential victims of violence, vulnerable groups, parents of potential causes and witnesses in online violence and harassment of women and girls, to strengthen the knowledge of experts and experts in order to ensure an adequate system of prevention, persecution and protection against online violence and harassment of women and girls, and to exchange experiences and good practices, and to promote mutual cooperation both at national and European level. You also asked me if I appreciated if teachers needed certain special knowledge. I agree with you, I absolutely believe that this knowledge would benefit them and make their work easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u271	Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I was going to ask you a little bit more about the violence at home by parents, which is also growing, which is growing, but you answered me so comprehensively and in depth to thank you. I'm not gonna ask you any more questions right now, on any other occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u273	Okay, as I understand it, we can proceed. Ambassador Matei Udovč will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport of Dr Jerne Pikal an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u274	Thank you. As a mother of two primary schoolchildren and as a member of the National Assembly, I face daily legal regulations governing the protection of personal data. On the one hand, the Personal Data Protection Act is combined with all sub-legal acts and regulations adopted by individual schools. They treat students’ personal data and treatment very restrictively. During a visit to one of the primary schools, I encountered quite a few obstacles, namely that teachers should not be allowed to hang up in the common premises of the school of copyrighted students, which they produce in their regular study, unless parents specifically agree to this in writing. At the beginning of the school year, for example, there are only numerical codes on the student list instead of beautiful names and surnames. It makes even more sense for me to think that teachers can't share the forms with parents of girls and boys in a joint session, because they just can't know who the parents of the girl is and who the boy is. And even absurd cases could be listed. One gets the feeling that we've depersonized the students completely and that at school we only treat them as numbers. On the other hand, at each beginning of the school year, I encounter a problem with respect to external information or digitised services providers. The primary school shall select an external contractor to capture, process and edit data and information from pupils, which it shall also keep on its bases. In addition to the information prescribed by law with Zofvi, there are other personal and other information relating to the student’s work at school. The school’s management convinces the parents of children to sign their consent or permission to enter into a contractual relationship for the use of their children’s personal data, while the school’s management withdraws from the responsibility for the abuse or unauthorised use of our children’s personal data. Parents who refuse to sign a consent are, however, deprived of any electronic notice relating to children in school. I'm asking you the same question as at the hearing: Does the Ministry have a systematic solution to this problem? Will the Ministry establish and manage a single information system that will have to be used by all educational institutions, which will cover and process all statutory data and other data related to the activities and events of individual students in school? Will the Ministry take responsibility for the operation of this system and we will no longer have to enter into a contractual relationship with the external provider chosen by the individual school? Does the Ministry already have funds reserved for the establishment and operation of this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u276	Mr President, Madam Members and all present! Thank you very much for that question. Just like you don't like it, if I say so, the system that it is right now, I don't like it either. I have to say I don't like it, and that's the same answer I gave you at the hearing. I would have divided my answer into two parts, because I think you've somehow addressed your question in two parts. One is the inanimateness of the school, which is due to the new GDPR, as we call it at home. This part of the inanimateness about the protection of personal data, which, of course, are of value and it is right that they are of value, because they would not want this data to be managed by anyone and by any means – but, on the other hand, what you say is happening is very inanimate situations. Members will receive two corrections in the coming months, for weeks, one is the Law on High Schools, the other is the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which will be part of these problems, not all, but part of these problems related to GDPR, hopefully solved. Things are in line with the information officer, so there's something we can do. As for the other part of your question, which I think is also the core of your story, which concerns, but I'd say two. The Ministry has a project in place. The Ministry of Labour is called the Modernisation of data management and management in innovative learning environments. The objectives are exactly what you're asking, i.e. the single information system, both on the one hand for schools, i.e. for every educational institution and for the Ministry. A single system. Why? For the sake of personal data security, and for the sake of transparency of personal data, not only because of personal data, but also because we want to have access to this system at all times. This morning, my colleagues explained to me that we are very busy with this issue, that we are actually quite accurate, but until the last, we do not have data on participants at all times, we do not have data on teachers at all times, and so on. I'm telling you exactly. Such an information system, that's at least what I expect from such an information system. Another time. The purpose of such an information system is that they no longer have individual schools of their information systems, because such information systems are a security hole that we do not talk about anything else. And this is simply not right, so we want to replace all of this with a single information system. Third time. We want to connect the different bases that now exist, namely the central base, KPIS, different bases, so that it works in one regulated ecosystem. Fourth time. On the basis of this information system, we want to provide – and this is what you are also asking – an e-service package that will be clear and will be on the one hand for schools and on the other hand for parents. We've had this payment story before. I agree, this is something that the state must ensure, without having commercial providers here who provide services to some level free of charge, but from there everything is payable and wrong. For all parents, the service must be free of charge, especially since this information about participants in the educational process is provided by the school itself. These solutions, which will contribute in this information system, will contribute to the comprehensive development, implementation of the informationisation of the educational process. To get there, we need two, and I've partially addressed it before. We need some minor changes to the legislation, because let's say that part of the school records should be addressed and, of course, on the other hand, we need to go to realisation as soon as possible, not just planning, but realising this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u277	You have the floor, Madam Member, to request a reply to be completed, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I'm quite pleased with your answer. However, I would ask for another supplement, if you could make a little more specific statement or more specific about when we talked about how the information system would be done to cover all the data – will it be only legally binding data or will it be other information that is already available in the information programmes? At the same time, I would like to refer to this occasion, because you have also referred to the previous question, and it was clear from your interview that the core of the problem is also inappropriate legislation. I would like to know on which priority scale you have the legislation mentioned, since we, as the legislative branch of the authorities as well as you, are primarily obliged to provide and care for the protection of children's personal data. Even if we see today that irreparable damage can happen that could affect our children for life. That's why I want to know when you're going to fix this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u279	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u280	Thank you very much. As far as other data is concerned, this is all the data we are already collecting or collecting. But we would not want to – there is a very soft line between having too much data and having all the information that is needed to ensure that our entire education and education system works. I think my colleagues – the number team involved in this project – have very carefully considered what data is really included in the system. It's always addable. However, we need to be sensitive to personal data here – I hope that you also agree with ladies and gentlemen – so that we do not go too aggressively and that we do not collect too much data, and that most of the time we are young participants in education and education. Another time. As far as legislation is concerned, it is high on the priority list. We will find – let me explain – that we now have in this system the education and education of so many school records that they actually need these records a special law. As a result, parts of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, where records are one part, part of the other legislation, will be eliminated. Above all, we will add to the record law at school, according to home, all the essentials that are needed in order for such a project, as we talked about earlier, to come to life. And this will be this new law on records in education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u282	Your Honor! It is known that in Slovenia air is among the most harmful impacts on human health and that Slovenia is among those European countries that have excessive air pollution. While the system of monitoring or measurement is in place within the country, this applies only to some regions, while in other regions, including Posavje, where I come from, citizens do not have this data. Occasionally, measurements have also taken place in Posavje, but such reports for the past periods are not useful, but continuous monitoring should be ensured, which would also have a greater impact on the actions of citizens and industry alike. Although larger industrial plants have reported their effects on Arso at a shorter length, these data are not available to local communities, which we find pointless. There are also significant differences within individual regions, so some municipalities are now trying to provide pollution monitoring equipment themselves to provide citizens with opposite and objective information on the danger. I'm asking the minister: Why do we not have air pollution measurements across Slovenia? Of course, I'm particularly interested in Posavia. Can we expect that, and when?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u284	Thank you. Thank you for asking, too. There are currently 22 places in the state network of measuring devices. These measuring sites are set in accordance with the rules and in accordance with the Regulation, and usually in places where population density is higher and in areas where they have been more polluted in the past, and we expect more air pollution. It is true that there is no such measuring device in Posav. The European project Sinica is currently under way. As part of this project, in addition to restoring existing measuring devices, we will also acquire some mobile devices, such a mobile device can also be placed in Posavje. This question of yours encouraged me or gave me another task to check with us in the house, especially at a time when we will be accepting a new balance, if we can also contribute any additional resources to place any measuring device elsewhere. Because within this project, Sinica will take a few years to reach these mobile measuring devices. However, as regards the measurements carried out by the facilities in accordance with their OVD, the local community may obtain such data. True, for the time being, it is not automaticism, but if the congregation asks Arso for this information, Arso also provides them to the congregation and you can get them. This machine will run itself in a few years. We are now in the stage of preparing the information system, in the very first steps, so I would not have hoped to predict when this information system will be set up, but this information system will then allow for all insights into the OVD, insight into the state of measurement in a particular area. Until then, however, the congregations may request these measurements. As far as these measuring devices are concerned, as I said, we will have to look at when we negotiate for the next budget, if our ministry can also obtain additional resources to build one ourselves, or if this will be resolved by mobile measuring devices.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u286	Thank you. I don't want to see us talking about a few years, I want to see that we're talking about ensuring our mandate. It's really winter now, but that's why I'm asking this question to make a difference by the new heating season, and it might make sense to think about it. Citizens of Posavia find it difficult to understand that they do not have data on air pollution, while in our valley everything else is measured in different ways, including radioactive radiation. In Brežica, which is more open-ended, they have fewer problems; otherwise, there are fewer chickens in Krk, and in Sevnica, where there are significant releases. Sevniška and Krški municipality have addressed several letters to the competent institutes and have sought ways to reach the measurements in a systematic way, but this is said to be not possible due to regulations. The answer that money is not available is unacceptable to us, especially as long as the country per year allows itself to be dispersed in health care with millions falling into private pockets because of high fees and people dying because of long waiting lines. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that citizens have the right to know what water they drink and what air they breathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u287	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u288	It is systemically regulated that the municipality obtains data from the industry as part of its environmental permit, but it is true that there is not yet automation. But if there is such a need, any congregation may ask Arso for such information. However, I agree that this network will need to be expanded, and I will make sure that these funds are also provided for the future budget. At the same time, the Blueprint project for mobile devices is also under way. There'll be a solution, but it won't be right away. I understand that the citizens of Posavia find this response more difficult to understand, but I will make sure that we get a solution first.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Marko Bandelli will ask the Defence Minister Karl Erjavac a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! In the Republic of Slovenia we currently have 14 establishments in which professional firefighters are deployed, as you well know. Local community service units are established under the law on public institutions, and the public fire department, together with voluntary fire brigades, is carried out under the Fire Act. The Ministry of Defence or the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Resolution is the department responsible for the systematic regulation of the field of firefighting and participation in the classification of professional firefighters in the payment system. In order to organize, operate and operate public economic institutions, they are responsible for the founders, or co-founders, of the congregations. Such financing of firefighters mainly burdens the budgets of local communities, where there are 14 professional firefighters. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Is there a potential for future relief from municipalities that, in addition to volunteer firefighters, finance professional ones? Is it possible that the financing of professional firefighters would be taken over by the Ministry of Defence or the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u291	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! First, I'd like to thank you for the question. I have to say, what you said is holding everything. This is in accordance with our legal order. I would like to say that we have a very good system of protection and rescue. The firefighter's organization also works very well. And of course, such a change would constitute a profound intervention in the law itself, this is said in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, including an infringement into the Firearms Act, because this law stipulates that it is a public service organised by the congregations. That is to say, we have professional firefighters who are organised in 14 public institutions and then voluntary firefighting companies. If we were to change the system, this would mean taking away from the municipalities one of the original powers, this is the organisation of a fire service, especially when it comes to professional work. This, of course, would also cause many and profound changes, which we are not sure would bring any added value. As we assess that the current system provides adequate protection and security for the population, it also meets our needs and is economically sustainable and effective. Others have also found that this is true of foreigners when they watch how our system of protection and rescue is organized. On the inside, of course, the fire department is the backbone of this system. I can say that at the Ministry of Defence we are not planning any change in this direction. It is true, however, that these initiatives occasionally arise, particularly in order for the Ministry of Defence to finance professional firefighters and that competence would remain with local communities. I must say that the current mode of funding is arranged so that it is actually financed through the local community, but it is also financed through the state, through the fire fund where the fire tax is collected. I can say that since 2004, €106 million has been earmarked and raised, of which €75 million has gone to local communities, both professional and voluntary firefighters, and that we also have very precise criteria in this regard. The largest criterion is actually the number of professional firefighters, which is 35% weight when it comes to the allocation of funds. In doing so, I would like to point out that we also have a broader interest in the fire department. It also receives funds from the Fire Fund. I can say that since 2004, they have received €31 million. We are afraid of going into such an intervention that a radical change of the whole legislation would be necessary. However, I do not think that the objective that some are pursuing would be achieved by a change. What exactly does he want? To relieve the municipalities and to take over funding for these 14 institutions. However, the assessment is that even if we were to change the system, there would be no more money for local communities, as there would certainly be less resources allocated to local communities for these needs than is currently allocated to them. So far, the Ministry of Defence is not thinking of changing this system. We would rather strive for more budgetary resources to be earmarked in general for protection and resolution, because we see that security challenges are particularly in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u293	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u294	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Believe me, whether there is jurisdiction or not, a large congregation would rather see this as a burden on the ministry itself. Believe me. It's very simple numbers. What you've said has everything to do with it. We know exactly, fire taxes, you know, fire taxes are about getting equipment, it's not about pay. That's what we need to know. Even in societies, when part of a fire tax goes to society, it's because of equipment. Here I think there is a solution missing from your side, what is the function of a voluntary firefighter society, what is the function of rescue agencies. Whenever an accident occurs, they both go out — double expenses, twice an organization. Everyone has to have a first-aid course. Why does the institution have to come out if we are to give a first aid course to voluntary firefighters? This is where we make a lousy expense. Here I think there should be some kind of regulation, some systemic solution on your part, from the Ministry, to make this a little easier and thus relieve the costs. Pays must be a heavy burden for congregations. From 4 to 5% of the budget costs the municipality this service, if we say so, is absolutely necessary, and we all want it and we are very pleased and would give even more for these things. If the congregations were burdened, volunteer fire companies would probably get more in this account than they should be. I told you about the fire taxi. Let me tell you one more thing. The next time you discuss the wages of firefighters, it would be good to call the congregations, since they were never involved, nor with various unions, when they agreed on wages, and in the end, the congregation pays, pays. Thus, other unions consider themselves in one sense to be public wages and, on the other hand, the budget of the municipalities has been charged, and they have never been called to a debate in this respect. So much for me. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u295	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u296	Thank you very much. There's nothing to add. It is true that when it comes to negotiations on salaries for professional firefighters, it would be good to have, in addition to or to give consent to local communities with professional units, that is to say, public institutions. So I accept this criticism, but we're going to try to make this work so that these situations don't happen. It should be known, however, that in addition to professional firefighters, there are also voluntary firefighters and voluntary firefighters. So if you really wanted to go into that change you pointed out in the first question, that would mean a big change in the regulation of the fire service. Given the effect that is expected, I think it would not be prudent, because we do not know what the consequences of such a change could have. I prefer to upgrade the system that we already have to complement where we see that there are shortcomings, and in this part that you've warned about, we'll just see if this thing can be better arranged or upgraded in the existing system. What kind of changes you're making, given that the system actually works well, we wouldn't be doing it for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u297	Let's move on. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues we insist on! In 2014, the Nature Conservation Act was amended, including provisions on driving in the natural environment. Since the adoption of the law, driving in the natural environment has been allowed on forest roads, on fortified roads, if the owners do not oppose – they often do not know themselves, but often oppose it – on forest trains and also on mountain roads. Of course, public events are also being carried out, which are very welcome, but they are further destroying our natural wealth, despite the fact that it is necessary for all of them to obtain all the appropriate permits that they, of course, also get, but there is no compensation for this. Most of the problems are caused by the heaviness of diversification with cross motors, quadricycles and downhill wheels along forests, forest roads and meadows as well. This heinous savagery is becoming increasingly unsustainable and dangerous. These problems are particularly common in Pohorje, as well as in Koroška in an area close to the state border with Austria. Individuals with motors, quadricycles and mountain bikes are coming to Slovenia because such a ride in the natural environment in Austria is significantly more sanctioned than we do. All these vehicles also destroy growth, and they are burdensome for the environment and for the living beings living in that environment, and most of the time these vehicles do not comply with the technical specifications. We are reminded of this by hunting families who care for the wild. The life customs of wildlings have also changed significantly in recent years. Wild game eats at night, concentrates near the center where there is relative peace at night, and causes disproportionate damage. Farmers and hunters also observe problems, causing damage to agricultural areas. It's all getting really unsustainable. This is sanctioned, but it is very difficult to control. Minister, I am addressing you with the following questions: Are you aware of the problems facing hunting families, forest owners, forest visitors at the Ministry? Have you prepared an analysis of the problem at the Ministry? Can it be driven in a natural environment by motor vehicles which are not in conformity with technical characteristics and are processed and causing immeasurable noise? What measures will the Ministry of Environment and Space take to prevent such behaviour? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u299	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u300	Thank you very much. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have been aware of this issue for a long time. As early as 1995, a Regulation banning driving in the natural environment was adopted, so that problem is already very old. Then, in 2014, the Nature Conservation Act was amended and an analysis was also made. So this remains an analysis, and we are also monitoring the situation. With regard to the technical equipment or technical efficiency of the vehicles themselves that are driving in the natural environment, this does not fall under our legislation. But it doesn't matter because it doesn't matter whether it's technically operational or not, it's forbidden to drive in a natural environment. This is provided for in Article 28.b of the Nature Conservation Act. So we really have a very good legal arrangement, where it limps, and we now intend to change it by amending the Nature Conservation Act. In particular, we want to set up dictions that will allow for greater effectiveness of environmental supervisors and inspectors in the implementation of this legislation, because we have a problem here. We will also try, in terms of financial capacity, to extend natural security control. Now this environmental surveillance is organised only within protected areas, and we would also like to go outside these areas. As far as noise is concerned, that's a big problem. Even now it is possible to sanction this, but like many others, there is the same problem of controlling how many supervisors we have, who can stop these violators. Legally, as far as clear or clearer dictatorships are concerned, which will allow for better sanctioning, we are now preparing this. I expect that we will send the law to public hearing within 14 days to 3 weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u302	Thank you so much for that first part of the answer. I was wondering if the analysis was evaled because you said it was made in 2014. If it wasn't, I would suggest that this evaluate. You have indeed said, yes, of course, but all these inspectors are urgently needed, but I can tell you that they are very well engaged, they are doing their best, such as forestry, hunting, fishing and agricultural inspectors, they also have police involved, they are sanctioning perpetrators, but the sanctions are so low that those on the other hand who come from Austria pay this sanction. I have the latest information that the sanctions amounted to EUR 20. What does that mean? Is that high enough for you? Otherwise, by law, that definition is, I think, from 100 ahead, but if it is settled within 8 days, this sanction is significantly lower. Therefore, it might also make sense in this part to consider that these sanctions are substantially increased, that then this control will be increased, that we simply maintain this natural wealth, for which we really need to do everything to remain as it is, and not to destroy it. For what we have been looking at lately in the natural environment, at least the hikers, is simply insufferable. There are no forest trains at all, and then forest owners have to re-establish these forest trains they have to re-establish, and these are inconceivable costs, which they simply cannot, no one is covering. These are indeed problems facing both the Pohorians and others who manage forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u303	Can I help you? [[No, no, ……]] Then I suggest we move on. The next one is mag. Branislav Rajić, who will ask the Minister for Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u304	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, this is your first appointment meeting, and I notice that you are always present in the Chamber. I'm sorry that they gave you two questions at the beginning and in the end, but that's probably the baptism of the newcomers. Welcome. The puppet theatre Maribor has increased significantly since 2010 when it was moved to new premises. Until then, it had settled in small areas above the library and then lived in the restored building of the Minorite Monastery. It is a programme and spatially modern theatre in which both the European Union and the municipality of Maribor and the Ministry of Culture invested in the reconstruction. Moving into the new building has increased the quantity and quality of performances, as shown by festival awards and evaluations by the expert commissions of the Ministry of Culture. In addition, the Maribor Puppet Theatre offers infrastructure and human resources support for other artistic and cultural presentations to list, Festival of Animated and Children's Film, Boršnikov meeting, Festival Lent, performances of contemporary dance, concerts, exhibitions, summer art in the open. However, the Ministry of Culture Puppet Theatre Maribor is still funded at the same level and employment as it did before moving in 2010, when the theatre had only one small hall. The theatre, which now has five venues, needs substantial reinforcement of the technical team in order to ensure the benefit of modern stage technology and at the same time multiple events at the same time, including hosting. As long as it has the same technical commission as once had, like a camcorder in the attic, with one head of technology, two masters of light, two tonic techniques and one stage staff for five venues, it will not fully fulfil its mission, and it will not offer the audience everything that could otherwise. When will the Ministry of Culture adequately increase funding to a sufficient level for such operation of the Maribor Puppet Theatre, which will enable the operation in the full potential of the current facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u305	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u306	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Member, all of us! At its move in 2010, as you have already said, the puppet theatre Maribor actually moved on the basis of a project co-financed by the European Community and, of course, partly by the municipality of Maribor. In all of this we also need to know that the puppet theatre Maribor is a public institution in the management of the Maribor municipality. And he is the founder of the entire puppet theatre of the Municipality of Maribor. The Ministry of Culture is funding the Maribor Puppet Theatre in proportion, like all other theatres, according to the number of employees, according to their capacity, which means about 50%. The situation is quite similar, for example, as an example, the Ljubljana Puppet Theatre, which is in very similar status and is financed in exactly the same way as the Maribor Puppet Theatre. So we have no legal basis, no basis whatsoever to make this system, such as, in any way, an exception. Of course, there has indeed been an enormous increase in their activities, which are, of course, at the expense of acquiring these new premises. But once again, the puppet theatre Maribor was founded by the Municipality of Maribor and the Ministry of Culture financed it in exactly the same and similar way as all other theatres in Slovenia. Thus, once again, there is no legal basis for this percentage to be increased, extended and supplemented in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u307	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, it wouldn't hold up everything you said. In fact, the theatre actually employs 28 people, of which 15 are in the Ministry's quota, but on the project that was designed, 40 jobs were planned and, of course, an appropriate higher share of the Ministry of Culture's employment was planned. This is because the technical part of the team has remained unchanged or almost unchanged while you can imagine that five sites certainly have inappropriate more stage techniques, which is much more modern and needs one normal treatment than by casual workers. And here's the reason why we need to strengthen the technical team. This is something crucial that could have worked in the theater, as I said, more performances at the same time. And here's something about what the Mariborians are talking about, because I think you have a chance, only that someone else needs to be consulted. That's what I'm asking and putting on my soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u310	In preparing this response, I have also consulted experts in this area on what we need to do and, at our best wishes, all these additional jobs that go are coming from the founder's quota. The founder is the Municipality of Maribor. The Ministry of Culture cannot interfere with these constitutional acts in the way you want. At the best of will, once again, we have no legal basis for any increase, because if we do, we do it for everyone or for no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Next, Franz Kramar will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Secretary and the other Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, I can address this question as a cry of dying in the desert or a fight by Don Quixote with a windmill on the wind. I have been dealing with this issue since 2010, when the Law on the Triglav National Park was adopted. In its provisions, it severely restricted the development of the population in park municipalities, limiting it also by interfering with their private property and prohibiting certain activities. From this point of view, they are deprived of the right to an equal existential position in the Republic of Slovenia. People living in park municipalities accepted this in part in 2010, as they were promised that the country would co-finance projects in their municipalities. The Triglav National Park Act provides in Article 11, paragraph 4, that additional co-financing funds shall be provided to park local communities for investment projects and activities under the national budget. These funds, however, reach 80% of the budget value of the project and of the investment. So the criteria are set, they only need to be implemented. The local park community shall also provide the resources necessary to carry out the activity unless another regulation provides for a higher percentage of funding. Since 2010, the State has not provided resources in any of the budgets for the execution of the 10th and 11th chapters of the Law. It is interesting that the State regularly fulfils the obligations of the Capital Law, where more than 90 million funds have been paid so far. It also fulfils its obligations under the Law of the Municipality of Krško because of the nuclear power plant, these funds are regularly paid. We ask ourselves in park municipalities whether this makes us second-rate citizens. You need to be aware that the park is of course state, our common, we are aware of this, but we also need to be aware that people live in this park. People who want to have the same development as those who live outside the park, and therefore the state has to provide them with additional resources. This does not mean, of course, the means for the operation of the Public Institute of Triglav National Park, which is armed with material and, in particular, personnel, 60 and more employees at the Public Institute of Triglav National Park, for which the State regularly provides funds. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Will such State practice be present in the future in your mandate and will have to seek their right in the courts [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u313	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u314	Thank you. I will not read the answer that our professional services have prepared for me because I believe that you know the law very well. You know the problems arising from the failure to enforce this law in reality. However, I would answer only in this part, which is a change in this mandate. The problem of the Triglav National Park Act and the problem of financing arising from this law have already been pointed out by my predecessor, Minister Leben. He immediately convened a meeting with all the mayors of the municipalities in the area of Triglav National Park. At this meeting, they made some kind of deal that I'm gonna stick to. At this meeting, Minister Leben agreed with the mayors that the mayors should align themselves with each other and come up with a single opinion on how these funds should be distributed among the municipalities, that is to say, what will be the key to division. And when the mayors come to us with this coordinated proposal, I, as the successor of Minister Lebn, will also stick to the agreement he made at this meeting, and then we will continue in the direction of providing funds and sharing these funds after this key, which will be coordinated with the mayors.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u316	Minister, I must say this is the first time you've given me any hope that I believe in. I believe in you. I believe in the purposes you have. True, the mayors of the parking lot have met with your predecessor. True, they also agreed to set the criteria. I will personally commit to having these criteria come to your ministry as soon as possible. I would just like to say this in the end that we must all be aware together that the national park is not a Bohinian, cobaric, tolmino park, but it is our Slovenian national park. And that in this space, people have to live better than people outside the park. And that'll be my motto to the front. Given that the criteria are already partly set from these 80% which the State must provide for investment in park municipalities, and this is the basis from which the mayors will certainly come. I believe in you, and I hope that what you said will be true. There is something else to know, however, that the National Assembly adopted a decision in the previous term and proposed that the Government should start implementing Articles 10 and 11. You were also a Member, and you voted in favour. That's why I hope what you said is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u317	Mr. Minister, would you like a word to complete the answer? No, no, no. I suggest we move on. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u318	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! Jehovah’s Witnesses, 9 / 15 April, the Family Code, which was adopted primarily to improve the situation of children in family relationships, began to apply. The measures taken to protect the rights of the child have thus been transferred from the social work centres to the competent courts and the social work centres will now be able to devote even more attention to the families and provide them with assistance and advice. The state must really do everything to get as close as possible to family relations. So he has to do everything he can to keep the child in the family and ensure that he is properly cared for. In this context, preventive measures are of paramount importance to prevent cases from being brought so far away that the child must be taken away from the family and that the parties must be brought to court. Good family relations are essential to children’s healthy development. It is therefore crucial that there are sufficient workers at social work centres who will be able to provide quality assistance to families in terms of advice and support and monitoring. It is also important to provide sufficient free counselling and therapy programmes for parents and children. For some family relations experts point out that these free programs with which such assistance and counselling is provided to families are absolutely insufficient at the moment. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: How many of these free programs are there to support families? How many free programs are there for children when they find themselves in emotional distress, such as programs that provide psychosocial assistance to children and families? Does the ministry intend to increase the number of these programmes in the future? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u319	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u320	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. I would like to point out that we are co-financed by 15 programmes of psychosocial assistance for children, adolescents or their families at the Ministry of Public Procurement for the co-financing of family support programmes this year. The programmes are designed to improve relationships and reduce the emotional distress of children, adolescents, or their families. The content of the programmes is aimed at teaching children, adolescents or their family members effective communication, improving relations and positive relationships within the family, improving the social competence of children, adolescents, improving the ability to manage their emotions, building positive self-images, preventive learning to solve a variety of problems, preventive reduction of behavioural and emotional problems, provision of learning assistance, reduction of emotional distress and so on. I would also mention the Amazing Year programme, which started with the funding of the Norwegian financial mechanism already in March 2015 as a pilot project of the Paternity Training Programme, which also included the Ministry. The project was carried out under the auspices of the Pediatric Clinic Child Psychiatric Service, carried out in nine partner institutions, three different sectors, five Slovenian regions, four centres operating in the field of mental health of children, health institutions, three social work centres, CUDVs and family centres operating within the Municipality of Ljubljana. During the 15 months of the project, 342 Slovenian parents and children aged between three and eight years were included in parenthood programmes, and to date more than 500. Parenting Training The amazing years have had an impact on reducing children’s behavioral problems, improving parental skills, and increasing the family’s general well-being. Family gets tools to solve problems and improve functioning. The achievement of the objectives has an impact on the decline of other treatments at social work centres and can even partially replace the need for different measures. The experience of parents involved in this implementation of the programmes within the Centre for Social Work is impressive, as well as the experience of partner institutions, which are of great interest in continuing the implementation of the programme. In 2018, the Ministry co-financed 8 sets of workshops, i.e. 180 meetings, for parents or children totalling €18,000 per year. At the Ministry, we estimate that the need for such programmes is exceptional, and therefore we also support all activities related to the uniform and systematic implementation of these programmes. In the coming period, we will provide funding at the Ministry for the implementation of parenting training to an even wider extent. Let me conclude that we will follow the needs of practice and we will provide additional programmes in future calls for proposals. In the context of the call for proposals we will prepare next year, we will give additional emphasis to the provision of free programmes for parents, and we are also considering the possibility of offering certain content before this call for proposals in the context of the multi-generation centres. Multigeneration centres offer various preventive programmes, content and activities aimed at families, individual family members, older and other vulnerable groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Madam Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General, for your answer. I'm glad the programs are already under way. I would ask if you could provide me with a written list of all the projects currently under way. I hope that you will actually expand this network in the next year, because prevention is extremely important in this case. As you yourself have determined, it is necessary. The more we solve this before he goes to court, the better. This is an extremely sensitive family relationship that needs to be resolved before they come to court. I think that such therapeutic and support programmes are essential in this context, and prevention is essential in this context in order to effectively ensure the primary principle, which is the principle of protecting the benefit of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u324	Thank you very much for the addition. Yes, we'll send you all these programs in writing. I absolutely agree with you, this is very important, and this must also become a priority when we are preparing tenders. We will pay maximum attention to this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u325	Thank you. Moving on, Sonibo Knezak will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Alenki Brother, please. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u326	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question today will be in connection with the construction of the main road, the so-called G2-108, or in our end, is more recognizable after the Hrastnik-Zidani bridge. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 27. 9. 2012 adopted the Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for G2-108, called Hrastnik–Zidani bridge and the deviation of the road G1-5 of the Roman Toplice–Zidani bridge–Working. Since the adoption of the Regulation until 2017, coordination has taken place with regard to the location of the Suhadol hydroelectric power plant. Although it is still not fully micro-licensed, in 2017 the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate awarded an order for the production of technical documentation via the public procurement portal to the company PNZ, d. o. o., from Ljubljana. According to the DRS leaders, the documentation was to be completed and handed over to the contracting authority by September 2018. The purchases of real estate took place in 2017 and 2018 and, according to my information, contacts with all involved were carried out correctly, so that there were no major problems. That this is an important section of the road – let me just compare that this is the only appendix of the road link along the Sava River trough, it's a good seven kilometers, it's in between, I think, five traffic lights, a one-way road, buses, trucks don't come to get us to the Wall Bridge. The alternative is that trucks, the whole industry, drive across the Vale to Hrastnik, across the Marno-Roman Spa. In short, we drive much further than we need to. That's what I said because this road section is particularly important for our economy. This also proves that the municipalities of the Sava development region are, in coordinating the set of projects for agreement for the development of the Zasavje region, under priority investment 7.2. Improving regional mobility the entire quota of funds for these investments is intended for the implementation of the main road project G2-108 Hrastnik–Zidani bridge. I also copied the secretary's file, so I don't think we need to read these funds because she knows the matter. This is a huge, difficult project, which will, of course, need to be provided with other resources. My question. Given that there have been many different interpretations of the activities themselves recently at least at our end, some dates are mentioned, I took this opportunity to learn firsthand information. Dear Minister, I ask you: At what stage are the current activities for the construction of G2-108? When can we expect the beginning of the work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Minister of Infrastructure, mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Yes, I agree with you, it's an important section of the road with more narrow throats, if that's what we can call it. I can spell out the importance of this road again, but I think it's more important where we are right now. At this point, the process of amending and supplementing the State Spatial Plan is under way, as certain project solutions are minimally but in any way outside the area of the accepted VAT. In parallel, the production of the necessary land is taking place and project documentation is also being produced, a peer review and revision of the existing project documentation is being carried out. This year's investment documentation will also be produced. All these procedures are expected to be completed by June 2020. Which means, if it goes as well as I have predicted that all these activities will take place normally, work on this section could start in 2021, which means still drawing on European funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u329	No, thank you very much. This brings us to a second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first is Anja Bah Žibert, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u330	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, not so long ago, we have considered the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's law on invalidity pensions, or specific on the lowest invalidity pensions. At that time, we proposed a solution that would allow those with really the lowest invalid pensions to be at least as high as the closest word to people, the so-called social assistance. This solution has also been rejected on the basis of your records, which, of course, we regret today. But citizens and citizens are bitter over this decision, both by the coalition and by the ministry. In fact, they want to make amends. I am really asking you specifically for the sake of the public to tell citizens and citizens: When and how will this change? In fact, this is disproportionate, it says, on the one hand, we have people who don't have a day's work, and they get more than those who have 20 years and more. And of course, on the other hand, we always stress, we're a social state, we're a solidarity society, and here we're cancelling. And I'm really asking you, if you can tell me in concrete terms, not proposals for further action that will save those pensioners who are just coming, but for those who are today. Because they just can't live anymore. They can't live. Stories are more than sad, and some literally despair and I am asking you politely for a concrete proposal for these people, it is said that those who are currently disabled and receive such a low pension, which is lower than those who do not have a working day, and on the other hand those who have worked as long as they can, have unfortunately been deprived of their health in one way or another. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u331	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u332	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. In response to your question, I should like to point out in the introduction that the disability insurance scheme is part of a pension system based on an insurance principle and that the disability pension depends on the previous pension insurance and disability insurance as well as on the other pensions. The invalidity pension shall be the pension benefit belonging to the insured person at the time of the disability, provided that he fulfils the legal conditions laid down therein, and its amount shall depend on the pension age achieved and the basis on which the contributions were paid. Unlike other social transfers regulated through the social security system, the creation of an insurance case is not only sufficient to obtain the right to a disability pension, but also pre-inclusion into insurance. I would also like to point out that the pension scheme in Slovenia is not a pure insurance system, but also based on the principle of reciprocity and solidarity. In the case of invalidity pensions, solidarity is achieved to a greater extent than in the case of old age pensions, as the law specifies certain specificities in the assessment of invalidity pensions, so that they are not measured only from the retirement age achieved, but are placed in the system of built-in special guardians, so-called age added to each insured person's apparent retirement age. The material position of disabled pensioners is thus directly affected by the rate of pension from the lowest or highest pension base, the minimum pension provided, and the special way in which the disability pension is administered. The amount of invalidity pension depends on the occurrence of disability, i.e. if the result is injury at work or occupational disease, the rate of 57 % is based on the pension base, which means that an individual has a guaranteed right of 40 years. However, as a result of injury outside work or disease, the percentage determined for the old-age pension in relation to the completed pension period, but at least 36 for men or 39 for women, shall be calculated. In view of the above, the levels of invalidity pensions can therefore be very different as for the elderly. However, it seems important to me to point out that pension and disability insurance is only one form of social security, which, together with non-priority social security measures, offers other ways of improving the social situation. In this context, it is necessary to draw attention to the right to a protective supplement. The beneficiaries of the protective allowance are, inter alia, permanently unemployed or permanently unable to work, i.e. disabled pensioners. The amount of the protective allowance for a single person when the statutory conditions are met shall be determined as the difference between the amount of the beneficiary’s income, for example disability pension, and the amount of the protective allowance, i.e. EUR 577,34. At the Ministry, we are aware of the problems of disability insurance as the social situation of low-income recipients, so we will try to take appropriate measures in this area to ensure greater social security, with one of our key objectives in this mandate being to adopt measures and necessary legislative changes to ensure greater social security for all who need it, as well as for those with disabilities. The planned changes would also include an increase of 63% for men and women, a higher percentage for child care, an increase in the minimum pension for 15 years, an increase in the highest base for the benefit of both the widow and the family pension, a higher percentage of the disability pension in case of disability resulting from injury at work or occupational disease, i.e. 63% of the pension base, an increase in the disability pension in case of injury outside work or occupational illness before the age of 65, a higher rate of compensation for disability insurance and so on. The aim of raising the dose percentage is to ensure that income is appropriate for a safe age, as the rise will also have a positive impact on higher social security for beneficiaries of disability, widow's, family's pensions. I would like to point out that the social situation of pensioners will be improved in the future also through regular harmonisation in accordance with the system law and extraordinary harmonisation in accordance with financial capabilities. At the Ministry, we will also continue to prepare for the reconstruction of disability insurance, which will aim to ensure adequate social security for all those with reduced working capacity, with a focus on professional rehabilitation. Such an undertaking also stems from a coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u334	Thanks again for saying that. Look, Minister, I know what the situation is. I know how to make calculations for disability pension. You were telling me about the measures that will apply again to the future. Now I'm only going to tell you two cases. On the one hand, I have a gentleman who worked 33 years and then went to a disability pension, which means we're getting a disability pension. He gets 390 euros a month. So we get less than the one who didn't work an hour and didn't pay into any cash register. Now you're explaining to me how much someone paid in the cash register, but look, you see this injustice. That's unfair. This man must survive with these 390 euros at 33 years of age. On the other hand, look at the even worse case, Mr Andrej, he will know exactly what I'm talking about, he was in the war for Slovenia, he worked for 9 months or more after the war on the most dangerous environment of mine removal in the Churches in Dolenjska. It was a job completely without a plan, it was dangerous, and then he lost his health. Today we get a disability pension, a respected one, he wrote me down exactly, I think, about €320 plus €37 of a veteran supplement. Together, he can't handle as much as social assistance. Look, these are injustices. And I'm really asking you about these people who are today: What's going to happen? If we have set a minimum pension, why not also determine the lowest invalidity pension?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u336	Thank you very much for this addition. We agree that there is a need to ensure greater social security and the benefits of beneficiaries. For exposed categories of beneficiaries, these are individuals who have paid for a shorter period of time. The system itself is now regulated in a way that makes it possible for these persons to benefit from additional funds such as cash social assistance and social security allowances. As I mentioned earlier, beneficiaries, who are also permanently unemployed or permanently unable to do so, receive a difference to the security allowance, i.e. up to EUR 577,34. And, yes, I agree with you, this system will also need to be regulated and we will, of course, pay absolute attention to this in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u338	Yes, it is, I would like to discuss this once again in this National Assembly. As it is said, the Ministry does not yet have a concrete solution for this area. The crisis of these people is great. I am indeed reporting, the crisis of these people is great and the fact that I mentioned earlier EUR 342 of invalidity pension, EUR 37 of veteran supplement. You know, not everyone gets a security supplement. We know there are certain conditions. These are also some people who, look, 33 years ago he worked, he created some house, you limit it to some amount, on the other hand there's also movement, probably one car has, now let's lose it. Now let's lose this. It's not the same thing, one is a social category, but it's about people who worked, they're disabled, anyway. I think that the debate would be welcome in the National Assembly for all, with no negative purpose, I do not want to encourage it, but I would be pleased that the coalition also supports it and that we will try together to find a solution for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 April 2019, in the framework of the votes. Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u340	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! There are quite a few facts why I have decided to ask this question. Last week, we had a press conference in Brežica by individual Members and the builders of the last hydro power plant on the Lower Sava, which will obviously be delayed for a lady who has a public interest. This works for Posavje, and probably also for Slovenia, environmental and economic damage. The second reason why I decided on the issue of energy concept is the information from the Government on achieving the shares of renewable energy sources, the gross final use of energy by 2020, where, I quote, “The Ministry of Infrastructure estimates that there is a possibility that a specific target share of OVE of 25% in the total gross final energy use in 2020 will not be reached by the Republic of Slovenia.” And thirdly, why I decided to ask the question is a national reform programme where, among infrastructure and investment projects and increasing the use of renewable energy resources, I had little hope for a concrete sentence, what will happen to energy in the next year, in the next decade or until 2050. And why does that seem important to me? Because the website says: "The energy concept in Slovenia is the main development document in the field of energy, which, in accordance with the Energy Law, is based on the country's economic, environmental and social development projections and on the basis of the international commitments adopted, sets the objectives of secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply for the next 20 years and for the next 40 years." But when I looked at what the energy concept says, a similar question I asked already one of your predecessors there in 2017, who said that the energy concept would be adopted by 2017, is on the date 15. 4. 2019 I ask what stage the energy concept is at. Moreover, I was even more surprised that, in addition to the multitude of other strategic development documents, the National Energy and Climate Plan, the Energy Efficiency Action Plan, the Renewable Energy Action Plan, we are still waiting for a comprehensive national energy and climate plan. In short, it's probably another strategic document, where we don't know what's going to happen in practice. Dear Minister: I am interested in your vision of Slovenia in the field of energy by 2020 or 2030? Hydropower, nuclear energy, thermal power plants, wind power plants, solar power plants, gas power plants or anything with energy in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, too. The energy concept of Slovenia is one of the most important documents that will and must, and once again, will emerge within the mandate of this government. At my hearing with the Minister, I announced the preparation of this document by the end of this year. Yeah, we're already late with this document, like you said. The draft was made. But the main criticisms that went to this document were that there were no more precise goals. And that is exactly what we are doing in the ministry right now, because, as part of the professional public, we are assessing that in this energy concept, which we are now going to have to prepare by 2050, we need to have certain goals, but of course we also need to say how we are going to achieve these goals so that we do not get what you did right, because at this point our ministry is aware that we will not achieve the objectives by 2020. So the goals we're going to set ourselves must be realistic. That's our first thing. The second thing I would like to say is that the Slovenian energy system is one of the best in the world. Studies that have been done place us somewhere in the 6th place, far ahead of a number of developed European countries. It is our duty to ensure that this remains for the future as well. Of course, in this energy concept it is necessary to answer how we will provide our country with as much self-sustainment as we like to say and how. We know that the lifespan of NEK is not now, but in 2043 it ends. We know that life span, including coal, TES 6 ends. At the same time, you yourself said that there were problems at the last hydro power plant on the Lower Sava. I used to answer a question related to the Mura hydropower plant. We as a state will have to decide how. I do not want to prejudge today, but in the energy concept it will absolutely have to be the answer to how we will ensure the long-term supply of electricity in our country. If not with NEK, as some say, if not with TES, as others say, and if not with water, as they say, then I do not know, then we are left with only imports, which is probably as a sovereign state, which I as a minister do not want. All the documents you have provided must be made in some way due to European requirements. Of course, it is our job to ensure that all these documents fit together without writing something in one, writing other things in the other. This year, hard and hard work awaits us in this area. But despite the fact that, I'm going to say, there are a lot of obstacles on the way, we certainly haven't given up and we are aware of the importance of these documents, so we're dealing with them with a lot of seriousness. But even those who would like to set very ambitious goals, at the same time unable to say how they would achieve these goals, will have to put arguments on the table. As far as this national reform programme is concerned, this is a document for a relatively short period, I think by 2020. All these documents will go far beyond this period, and therefore, in fact, the NRP, as we call it, is not included in the energy and the part you ask me about.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u344	Thank you, Your Honor, for the introductory part of the answers. The only thing I like about this energy concept, which has been under public scrutiny since 2015, is that it is short. It doesn't have 100 pages, but it only has 100 frames of short paragraphs on 16 pages, so unlike the Energy Act, it's not so hard to read, but it's hard to decide what to do with energy. And here I agree with you when you asked yourself or probably all of us how to ensure energy self-sufficiency and that we will have to make a decision as a country. And given that you promised that the energy concept would be completed or adopted this year, if luckily it would be political or any other will, I just hoped that somehow you would dictate, given that we know what we have and what, as you said yourself, ends. Now you probably do not expect Member Lisec, who is only an opposition Member, to propose to you, because it is likely that this will not be accepted. If opposition MEP Lisec says that yes, we urgently need a second block, we urgently need serious consideration, why the Austrians on Mura are building hydropower plants and we do not have the courage or the courage, we probably have the knowledge, we probably all agree that we have such a beautiful land that we can still put not only solar power plants on military stations or wind power plants where the wind is blowing, it is not here in Dolenjska so often. In short, I hope, indeed, a respected minister, that the energy concept will be much clearer than that in some theories we will seek a solution to energy supply and self-sufficiency in the coming years. Why it's crucial, and then maybe next time. You wrote under the acceleration of measures the use of so-called flexible mechanisms. The simplest measure is the statistical transfer of the share of EEE by buying from another Member State which exceeds its EEE target, for example Croatia. Which, in my opinion, is a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u346	Yes, if the energy concept were ready, then I would also tell you about any concrete solutions. Our goal is to be ready by the end of the year, then the reception itself, because it is also accepted by the National Assembly, takes some time. And yes, I agree that the document should be brief, clear, precise, but very precisely set the goals that we will set ourselves, and also the way we will achieve these objectives. That is why I am not and will not, and will not, talk about concrete solutions. First, let the experts do their work, I told you that at this point calculations are being prepared, and then, when this is on the table, of course, it will be a policy to say, both way and in this way, we will provide electricity in Slovenia in the next 40 or 50 years. We need to be aware, and we can feel that now that we do not reach the targets by 2020, this will cost us a lot. It is therefore necessary to be ambitious, but also realistic, in setting objectives. And I agree with you, with all the major infrastructure projects and now new energy, civil initiatives, which, if they have a legitimate interest at all, society from Ljubljana has a legitimate interest in the lower Sava, a society that has 8 members, can stop such a huge and such important investment. But there is also a policy task to see what he can do in this work. And I also agree with you that there are quite a few hydroelectric plants in Mura, Austria, so that Mura does not originate in Prekmurje, but runs like it does, it is said, through certain energy facilities. But these are all questions that must be answered first by the profession, and then, of course, on the basis of professional recommendations or decisions, the policy must also do certain things. And I believe that at the end of the year, or at least at the beginning of next year, we will also meet with a prepared energy concept here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u348	Thank you. Why do I think it's necessary to discuss it? Not to make us more prepared to wait for the end of the year and to adopt the energy concept, but I am particularly concerned about this information that you have provided and that the Government has also come to know. I have to say that I welcome your information, but I'm actually a little disappointed that we have a Prime Minister of the Government who obviously has these numbers, not due to your work or your work, but to energy in general, that he didn't require any more concrete measures. Not only in your field, as you have correctly identified in the field of energy and transport, but also in the field of environment and space, there would be some other ministry. Since you yourself have said that not only a profession, politics will also have to decide what to leave to those who will come after one, two, three, four, five or ten terms in this National Assembly or, if you want, what we will leave to our children, whether we will breathe bad air or, in particular, we will be friends if you want, with renewable energies. And as you said, as a country we will have to decide, I think it was necessary to have one general debate in the National Assembly, to see also the Members where our visions are, whether we want our country to move forward with a black proposal or clean renewable resources, so I suggest that we, honourable President, decide tomorrow during the vote whether we want a general debate. I hope that we will also do it before we get the energy concept in the final phase before our tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 April 2019, in the framework of the votes. The next is Primož Siter, who will raise a question to the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u350	Thank you so much for saying that. I have not a question, but a list of questions on the subject of independent entrepreneurs in health care and the value of contracts concluded. I'm going straight to the question, because there really is one list of them: How many doctors working in public health institutions are also doing their work through espionage? What are the values of these contracts? How many of these are classic espies, how many are normalized, and how many are in the afternoon? What are the values of these contracts? What is the distribution of these espies by Slovenian hospitals according to the number of contracts and their value? How many health service concessionaires are doing work for public health establishments through espies, and what are the values of these contracts? How many of these are classic espies, how many are normalized and how many are in the afternoon, and what are the values? What is the proportion of concessionaires involved in the provision of emergency medical care and uninterrupted health care? How many of these are paid through espionage, and what are the values of these contracts? How many doctors working in public health institutions are doing their work through contracts? What are the values of these contracts? Is there any other possibility of paying concessionaires to provide uninterrupted health care and emergency medical care? Why is uninterrupted healthcare not part of concession contracts? And if so, then why are additional contracts with concessionaires needed? How is the payment of overtime and on-call fees regulated in public health institutions, and what is the control over payment? And the last question: Pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 53c of the Health Act, public health establishments may conclude a contract with a healthcare professional or a civil law contract where the conditions laid down in this Article are met. How many business contracts were concluded with healthcare professionals in public health institutions in 2018 and 2019? What are the values of these contracts? Where, this is very important, are the data available that all contracts are concluded on the basis of the conditions set out in Article 53c of the Health Act? Who exercises control over the fulfilment of these conditions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u352	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, who continue to attend today's meeting. Dear Mr Siter, as to how many doctors in public health institutions are doing their work through espies and what are the values of these contracts, how many of these are standardised and afternoon espions, and what is the distribution of these by Slovenian hospitals according to number or value, I would like to explain that the Ministry of Health does not have this information. At the Ministry of Health, we have data from the National Institute for Public Health, which, in accordance with the Law on Health Databases, keeps records of the movement of health workers and the network of health institutions. The record keeps records of all health workers' employment in Slovenia, showing how many health workers are employed as private workers, in the form of an economic society, private health workers or other employment of private status. Current data for April 2019 are as follows. Among doctors and dental doctors there are a thousand 940 persons with private employment status, of which 974 are in the form of an economic society, 791 in the form of employment of a private health worker and 175 in other employment of private status. The Health Activity Act provides that the records of the consents and contracts issued are kept by public health establishments and that we will request the information requested by the public health authorities and will then provide them in writing. I would like to provide further answers to the remaining questions raised below. The Medical Services Act provides, inter alia, that the concessionaire must be included in the programme to provide uninterrupted emergency medical care in the area where the medical service is performed in the operator providing for the implementation of this assistance. In the field of primary and secondary health care, the concessionaire shall be involved in the provision of continuous emergency medical care under the same conditions of work and for the same payment as the doctor employed in the public health service. The rules on the criteria for determining the level of payment of health services under agreements or other civil law contracts provide, inter alia, that the public health authorities shall take into account the difference between the revenues derived from the provision of health services, labour costs, materials, services, depreciation and other operating costs associated with the provision of health services under the contract. However, the payment shall not exceed the revenue obtained for the health service provided. The payment of overtime and on-call fees is governed by the Public Sector Wages Act, which provides that the salary consists of basic salary, part of the salary for performance and allowances and provides for the 32nd Article of the Act. Inspection of the implementation of these provisions shall be carried out by public sector wage inspectors within the framework of an inspection of the public service system. The health inspectorate shall supervise the implementation of Article 53c of the Health Activity Act. We have no data on the height, scope of these contracts at the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u354	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. There are some things left open and, as you suggested, I'd like you to provide me with the answers in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u355	Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u356	As stated above, we will collect data with which we do not have it today as soon as possible and will also provide them in writing to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u357	Thank you very much. And we are moving on to the last question that Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Infrastructure of Mags. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u358	Thank you for your word, chairman. I raise this issue on behalf of all users of Slovenian public transport, in particular those who drive or drive by Slovenian railways, i.e. by train. Why? In recent weeks, she has leaked information that the Ministry of Infrastructure is planning to invest in the expansion of the highway around Ljubljana. This investment is expected to cost EUR 800 million. No documents in this country provide for this. It's not in the coalition contract. There was a coalition contract with NSI in that equation, but when Levi entered the picture, we turned this asset or priority towards modernisation of railways and modernisation of public transport, and at the same time this position is shared by the strategic documents on the development of transport that we have in this country. Of course, the arguments are clear – investing in sustainable mobility is the only thing that makes sense. More roads mean only more road traffic and a very short-term solution to the problem of flow, while leaving permanent negative effects on the environment and on human health. If I start with emissions, road traffic in this country is already responsible for 32% of all greenhouse gases. Most of it falls off the road. In the meantime, we are facing a climate crisis that will overtake us in a decade and a half if we do not start to respond radically to it and act immediately on serious investments that are environmentally friendly. What better picture is not even on the issue of human health? The Ljubljana Institute for Health Protection warns that the risk of asthma is 50 times higher for those living inside this band than for those living up to 300 metres away from the road. In this band, up to 10,000 adolescents grow up to the age of 18. Last but not least, finance itself is not an insignificant dimension. 800 million euros is a lot of money, but at the same time we have a regional development agency, which came to a study a few years ago to raise the number of passengers in the Ljubljana urban region by 45% and between 80% and 100% on some routes. One of these links also takes place between Kranj and Ljubljana for one of the intermediate stations in my home, Škofja Loka, where I, for example, board the train. Such an investment would make the train time and cost-effective. I want to know: Why, Madam Minister, would you rather invest in asphalt and concrete than in track and train? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u360	Thank you. Mr. Kordish, it is not a question of whether a train or a railway or a road. We're investing in both because it's necessary. I will say, if I want to be as populist as you started the question, I will now begin to answer that I hope that in 2020 you do not want to force every other car by the road, so sometimes, in that old country there were even and odd numbers that could only be driven for one day. In short, transport studies, traffic growth shows that certain road infrastructure projects are needed. If you ask on behalf of those who drive by public transport, I will tell you that on the road people who drive on the road to work ask me when we will allow them to normally, in normal time frames, either from Primorska or from Styria or also from Gorenjska. So it's not a question or, but we're working on everything. Railway lines are also being renewed, accelerated over the last three years. Slovenian railways will receive 25 new train compositions in the following year, two years later 25 more, that is 50 new train compositions, which is roughly half the fleet. I believe this will make rail traffic more popular. We are also introducing a single ticket for employees, and I think we will be able to do this on June 1st, which means that we will be able to afford passenger traffic. These are all the things we do. But it would be irresponsible, irresponsible to prepare for the expansion of the Ljubljana Ring, even to the third belt where it is necessary. I'm on the highway. As a department, we simply cannot afford the situation that when traffic in this area in a few years, which you are talking about, has virtually stopped, we would not have a solution. Therefore, a study that clearly shows the need and therefore a study and further preparation of documents that will give the possibility of a decision. We will not start these projects in the way you say, believe me, even though we might want to get certain things on these sections into a situation that would allow for normal driving. The financial assessments that you are now talking about are not very precise financial assessments, but the financial assessments that are being made at this stage, at a stage such as we have a project at this point, can be made. But I also want to make it clear to those who drive and drive by trains that we are also restoring the tracks and that we will also make the means of driving more user friendly and that I want as many people as possible to ride trains or use public passenger transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u362	Thank you for your word. People don't need to come from point A at point B with a car. People need to get from point A to point B.P. And that they can do this effectively, that it is not time-consuming, that it is accessible to them both in a price-based sense and in the sense of a logistics image. To claim that we need to expand the highway ring around Ljubljana because the traffic flow will increase in this way, but we expect a large number of cars, based on a completely wrong assumption. Based on the assumption that people want to drive from one point to another or that it is even good for Slovenian society. It's not. What is good for human health, which is good for affordable sustainable mobility, and which is good for Slovenian public finances after all, is the regulation of rail passenger transport. Definitely. Especially after 25 years of starving in this country. And if not the other way around, people used to walk around in a car because they didn't have any other realistic alternatives. All data can show that more road also means more road traffic. And if we hypothetically pull the highway ring into width and at the same time maybe extend the railways, it will automatically not be translated into more rail traffic, but it will remain the same as it is or will worsen the road situation along with the rise in emissions, along with the deterioration of the health of those living around and along with the deterioration of the environment. That's why, Madam Minister, I'm asking for a supplement here. The question is, do we, we don't have to expand the highway if we fix the railroad?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u364	Mr Kordish, not me or you are not such a traffic expert as to allow ourselves to say that the expansion of the highway ring is not necessary. Traffic experts are the ones doing the studies, what's going to happen in the future. And when studies were being prepared for this highway cross, traffic growth was estimated to be significantly lower than it is today. That's a fact. I told you we're also working on the rehabilitation of rail infrastructure, accelerated. Right now on the TNT network, not to say the most burdened cross. Everyone else's turn, too. They buy new train compositions, which is all a plus, and my goal is to get as many people on trains as possible. However, we probably agree that in 2020 we will not prohibit the use of another means of driving by decree. There are mechanisms, there are mechanisms, and perhaps Left will support us there when we want to put extra burden on more people to get cleaner means of transport. I agree. I agree, environmentally friendly, but if transport studies show otherwise, we probably need to prepare ourselves as a country for this too. That's all. We don't start with the project, we don't start with the construction, but they'll have the basis that maybe someone behind us can decide how and what when everything is on the table. But we probably agree, once again, that people have the right to choose. Of course, the country must encourage with certain policies. And that's exactly what we're doing. Once again, we also introduce a single ticket for employees to further stimulate them, to use a train or to use public passenger transport in addition to buses. Buses as public passenger transport are also under-used. But I'm not the one who's gonna force people, but we're gonna give them a chance. When the train becomes a more attractive means of transport than it is today – you are yourself a while ago, I will say, I will make one major media campaign because of a short delay – when we put it all in order, I believe that people will also use the train more.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u366	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, I want the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject. I would also like to see the conclusion of this debate as a unequivocal commitment to invest instead of in asphalt and concrete in track and train. We need serious investments in sustainable mobility in this country. We need them because of the increasing accuracy of our infrastructure, and we need them, after all, because, as long as we do not drastically reduce our environmental footprint, we will be hit by the climate crisis in a year and a half. And when that happens, it's already started to happen with us, especially farmers feeling it, we won't be able to choose anything anymore and choose nothing. The future will be chosen for us and will eventually be chosen for transport. That is why we need a completely political decision and a political orientation so that we do not spread the Ljubljana bypass and stimulate even more road traffic, but instead try to get people on track, on a train for a little longer. And then inside the more dense urban areas on a bicycle, on foot, but all this needs is a regulated infrastructure. Our country's investment funds are limited. If we're millions, we're talking here about a few hundred million amounts, we're going to put them in asphalt and concrete, and they're going to run out for the railroad and for the train. It's very simple. In particular, I do not buy the claim that only studies are being prepared, that the documentation is simply being prepared, but that the decision will be taken later. Because in this country we have a history of how she was just preparing documentation, and then we got a TEM 6. This is only one example of the problematic use of public funds. That is why I think that MEPs and Members should make a statement. In fact, this planned investment in the expansion of the Ljubljana bypass opened up an excellent opportunity not only at the level of the flossule but at the level of the empty rhetoric, but at the level of the specific case, concrete means we decide whether for the highway, for the poorer health of people, for the greater environmental burden or for quality, efficient public transport is accessible to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-15-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 April 2019, in the framework of the votes. To the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, I thank you for your answers! I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 16 April 2019, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the vote, decides on the proposed decisions. I'm also adjourning the seventh session of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
