ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Maša Kociper, Dr. Franc Trček, Janez Janša, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, mag. Matthew Tonin, Jožef Horvat from 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., Blaž Pavlin from 16.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., Jernej Vrtovac from 16.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., Iva Dimic from 9.30 p.m., Soniboj Knezak to 12 noon, Matjaž German, Mojca Žnidarič to 12.30 p.m., Mateja Udovč from 6.30 p.m., Igor Zorčič from 12.30 p.m., Eva Irgl, Dr. Ange Logar and I will be absent from 12 to 14 p.m. and from 16.21 p.m. I welcome all those present once again kindly! Allow me, honourable Members and honourable Members, to address the National Assembly on an ad hoc basis before today's meeting. Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, dear children! Today we mark the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 20 November 1989. For decades, however, the nations of the international community have agreed that children need to create a more friendly world, or as stated in the preamble to the previous document, this is the Declaration on the Rights of the Child, “that humanity owes the child the best he can.” As those in need of special protection, children were recognized in 1924 by the Geneva Declaration on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the Society of Nations, the predecessor of the United Nations. But all the developments so far have been brutally halted by World War II, which has severely destroyed all human rights. A new step towards child protection was taken by the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of the Child in 1959, but three decades had to pass before the historic Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted. The latter represents one of the greatest historical milestones in the effort to create a more child-friendly world, as it is a legally binding international document. At the same time, it is also the widest, almost universally accepted and, above all, the fastest ratified international human rights treaty. With the Convention on the Rights of the Child, countries have imposed new responsibilities and have sent a clear message to the world that children are comprehensive, with all their rights, political, civil, economic and social; and that because of their vulnerability they need special protection. Slovenia can be said to be one of those countries that is firmly committed to children's rights and their well-being. It is not only a party to the Convention, but it has recently ratified the Optional Protocol on the Procedure for Reporting Violations. This ensures that children who are victims of violations of rights are given the opportunity to appeal at international level, i.e. directly to the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. In addition, Slovenia confirmed its commitment to children's rights by renewing UNICEF's Global Commitment to the Realisation of Children's Rights. So what is the state of affairs 30 years after the adoption of the Convention? We may look optimistically and find that more children than ever before are born on the 5th birthday, that more children than ever have access to food and clean drinking water, and that more children than ever have attended primary and other schools. However – and here is this one, which I believe as people and as politicians must shake us – dear Members and fellow Members, we live in the 21st century, when 3 million children under five years of age still die each year because of malnutrition. Dear Members and honourable Members, we live in the world, when every year a million and a half children die as unnecessary as they are not vaccinated. Dear Members and honourable Members, we live in a world where more than 300 million children do not attend school; and we live in a world where more than 150 million children are involved in child labour. And finally, honourable Members, we live in a world that has never been before; we live in a world where more than 240 million children live in war zones. Children and their rights are also affected by the climate crisis, pollution, mass migration, misinformation and the rise in mental illness. Today, as we mark this day, it is only time to realize that there is still much work to be done more quickly. I am pleased that, honourable Members, today, young Ambassador Unicef, Mrs Arya Ela, is also with us. I'm asking her to tell us how she understands today. Arya, here you go. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members and guests! Today is a very special day. As has already been said, today we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The lives of many children have improved significantly since the birth of this Convention in the 1930s. Many children have been given the opportunity not only to survive and to develop but also to educate and fulfil their full potential. Thirty years ago, a number of countries committed themselves to implementing the four fundamental principles of the Convention: the realization of the right to life without discrimination, the pursuit of the best interests of the child, the right of children to survival and protection, and the exercise of the right of children to cooperate. The realization of these four principles is the first condition that children can meet their best potential — to educate themselves, to be healthy, to be safe, to be protected, to be heard, and to be respected. The realization of these four principles is in your hands and was in the hands of your predecessors who sat in these benches many years before you. Only commitment to the fundamental principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child was required to make the lives of children significantly better in Slovenia and around the world. Slovenia has achieved remarkable results on a number of scales that monitor the quality of life of our children. This is why thanks goes to you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Maybe you're wondering why I'm even here, why a 13-year-old girl is standing in front of you who is currently lagging behind in teaching and telling you things that are supposed to be self-inflicted. That's what I've been asking myself. What am I supposed to tell you? About 45 000 children living under the poverty risk threshold in Slovenia. Living in poverty is very likely for a child who lives with his mother in a rental apartment. And much more likely for a girl whose parents do not come from Slovenia. Poverty is the reality of a million children's lives. Poverty steals dreams. Exterminate hope. He steals his childhood. Care that discrimination still exists. This same girl can sometimes be afraid to tell where her parents come from, afraid that someone will hate her and insult her. Open hatred, intolerance, racism and discrimination are all things that unfortunately torment children. No one, child, or adult should have experienced this. No child should be afraid to tell who he is or what he decides. I'm about to go to high school. Studies say that in our class every third student will experience feelings of sadness and despair, which will last for at least two weeks, and that in the first year every fifth of us will think about suicide. In three out of four cases, the problems faced by adults in the face of mental disorders began either as a child or as a teenager. I'd like to tell you these stories, but I'm afraid it's just statistics for you, information that falls into a bunch of everyone else you hear during the week. These are not my stories, and I'm afraid that you won't take me seriously for this; or worse, that you wouldn't take this information seriously, which is what actual stories are for. I want you to hear them all, but we only have 10 minutes before you continue your mission. The only thing I'm sure every child will experience is fear. Fear of this information just given, fear that we will become just statistics. Children hear things, we see them – news, rumors, everything. We hear that mankind is harming our planet to get close to the point of no return, all of this affects our children. The heat waves, droughts, floods and storms force more and more children and adults around the world to flee. I even learn about it when I compete in geography. Do you know how scared I am of the information that Slovenia is warming up almost twice as fast as the other world?Oh, my God! We all think we have to wait until we're adults, so we can sit in these chairs where you're sitting right now and help the world. Now we're afraid it'll be too late. That's why I'm asking you to be honest. Please bear in mind this fear and bear in mind that we, children, have the courage to change. But in order to realize this courage, we need you adults as allies. Think of us in building a world of the future, a future for your children and grandchildren. Thirty years of existence of the Convention, the witnesses of some time, is proof that cooperation, respectable and targeted communication and the ability to take joint commitments and responsibility for their implementation can be a prerequisite that will make progress in the realization of the rights of the children that we are here with you and the children who will be born. Adults need to take responsibility for the power to make decisions you make and to exercise this responsibility wisely. It is important that you give our children the opportunity to create a present with you and that we together create a future for all of us. Every right - for every child. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, on behalf of all of us, young Unicef ambassadors can thank you for your words. Mr Horvath, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues, our dearest, dearest guest who has just left! I sincerely congratulate you, President, on this gesture, for your speech and for your invitation. I was heartbroken when you started your speech; but let's do something concrete today, dear colleagues and colleagues, so that young people will not be afraid. Today the fear of those who came into their path was that they saw the word death at school. Unbelievable. Death by a Clerophasist. Imagine the fear these students, the schoolchildren, suffer. Therefore, Mr President, as the first among the same, I ask you to call upon the Government immediately, perhaps the competent minister, the authorities, perhaps 90 of us, under this requirement, to immediately intervene within their competence. It is not possible for some of our children to write on the walls — death — in the third millennium in institutions where some of our children are educated. Please, let's do something concrete, not just with words, with actions, because actions count. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you for your procedural proposal. I don't know where to put it, but I think I can also say this on behalf of all those present, that I, and all Members and Members of Parliament, are condemning concretely and in every form of intolerance and that we are asking all of us, who have such or different powers, to take maximum action against concrete and all other forms of intolerance, because it is the only way that we, as a society, will be able to develop in the direction we want. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We are moving to a budget user of 22711, this is the Ministry of Health, and to a debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I find that we are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on Health Management and Development and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it? Nobody. Let's move on. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Investment at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. We are moving to a 3330 budget user, this is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and to a discussion on the amendments tabled by this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Research programmes and projects as well as the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education and the amendment of the leftist Group and the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the Left Party and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Student Homes and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Programme and Development Tasks of Sport and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Mr Igor Zorčič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u6	Mr President, you have now listed a whole bunch of amendments tabled by various motions, but apparently these amendments are not even worth the trouble of the candidates to stand up for them and explain them. My suggestion is if they are so insignificant that no one explains that you don't put them to the vote either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u7	You know what you just did wasn't right. Emissary groups that have spent their time [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Or you want to listen to me, please, to finish my words, and then the rest of you get it. Emissaries who have spent their time can no longer discuss, that was incorrect. Who wants to discuss it now? Nobody. Thank you. Let's move on. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving to the budget user with number 3340, this is the Ministry of Culture, and – because I do not want to disturb you – to discuss the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, the archival and library activities and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you are, Madam Member, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The supplementary draft budget shall apply for 2020 and 2021. The wire cartussium was established in the 12th century as the first outside of the home countries of France and Italy, the first in Central Europe and the first in the four in Slovenia. In time, it became a European cultural and political epicenter on our soil. In the 14th century, the monastery behaved with a library that counted more than 2,000 books and was only smaller than the Vatican. Cartussians were also involved in natural medicine, medicine, wine growing, milling, baking, glassmaking and the like. Today in the area of the former monastery, only ruins are saddened. In 2018, the state recognised the status of a cultural monument of national importance to the Cartussium. As a result of this decision, it is clear that the country should further support the development projects in connection with Žičko karuzia in the future. The funds are earmarked for the project of partial reconstruction of the roof, before reconstruction work is required on the walls of the regular church of St. John the Baptist, for this is a prerequisite for the execution of the roof structure. According to our assessment, it is just over 2,000 square metres of the peripheral walls of the Church of St. John the Baptist. After the static repair of the walls, the object could be blocked, since the renovated walls would carry a roof structure with historical cover. This project is only part of the total revitalisation of the Wire Cartussium according to today's image and has already been described in the monastery in order to restore the former function. The renewal of the map would mean the return of Slovenia to European cultural space and it is essential that the reconstruction works begin as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Does anyone else want to discuss this amendment? I guess not. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for Media and Audiovisual Culture and the amendment of the Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Madam Ambassador Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, I've been saving a minute for a culture that's just my area. The fact is that in this budget, which is record, culture is seriously neglected this year and next year. From the whole budget, we have only 1.82% for the purpose of culture and cultural production, which is unacceptable, because we know that culture is not a cost, but it is one of the economic sectors that employs many employees and self-employed people. And that is why we also decided unanimously and decided, I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, at the third urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture 13. 11. 2018 to end the brain drain of our top quality, especially young film makers who go abroad because they don't get the film here, they don't get the opportunity to create the film. And they got a commitment to get 11 million a year for film production, which is not visible in this program. Last time I was in a digitalized version of the movie, don't cry, Peter. It's a good thing we digitize them, because the film record fades. At the pace that we now digitize our film wealth, which has emerged throughout our history, it will take 150 years. How much of this cultural heritage will be lost forever, we can only guess. I think that for Slovenia the protection of cultural heritage and current cultural production should be a priority against all investments, for example in quadricycles, weapons and ammunition, because Slovenia is currently not at military risk and we are not in the middle of a war. But we can make some good war movie, no problem, we'll all have some of it. On the media and audiovisual culture item, we propose an increase of €725 000 and we take on the operational performance and maintenance of the readiness of the Slovenian Army, says NATO. I don't think you'll know that with guns. In the film that we promised him, he'll know each other a lot. Because we have very good filmmakers and we invested in their education. And if they're making a movie today, setting up their own apartment or going elsewhere, they're pretty happy elsewhere. I think that you will support this proposal, because the economic cultural sector is so neglected and we know what actually preserves us through history. Not ammunition or anything else others can do, but a specific culture that has grown here, from our high-quality creators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Does anyone else want to talk? If not, I find that I can conclude the debate. The vote on the amendments in the Special Part of the supplementary draft budget will be held on Thursday, i.e. tomorrow, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Does anyone want to talk? No, no, no. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will also take place on Thursday, in line with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. Dear Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is an additional proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2021. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the General Part, the Special Part and the Development Programme Plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the consideration of the General Part of the Additional Draft Budget. Does anyone want to discuss it? We're opening applications. The list is open. We have one report. Mr. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! We have an updated draft budget for 2021. A personal opinion is very similar to the 2020 Supplemental Proposal. I personally assess that there is probably an even higher risk for revenue and expenditure in the 2021 supplementary proposal than in the 2020 budget. The fact is that this budget has record revenue; on the other hand, record expenditure. The fact is that in most cases it is thanks to the economy for record revenues. The fact is that this government has not prepared a developmental and targeted budget for 2021 as well. We are missing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular investments. Even in 2021, at least we do not record these investments; in general, compared to absolutely significantly higher revenues, more than 2.5 billion tax revenues, compared to 2014. I personally believe that debt remains a major problem for Slovenia. Some said yesterday that we have very low debt in the structure of gross domestic product. This may be true, but let us have one fact before our eyes that Slovenia is still paying 750 million euros a year. 750 million interest. If they didn't pay me that interest, we could build 150 homes for the elderly today, we have 11,000 people waiting in line for this house. This means that debt is a problem, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia also points out. We have been pointing this out for some time in the Slovenian Democratic Party and this debt amounts to 32 billion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that the relationship between work and work will continue to be broken. I appeal to the government and the coalition to do something here. Major changes are needed in excise policy. The fact is that the only revenue in the budget for 2020 and for 2021 compared to the previous years falling is excise duty; the excise duty is purely because there is no appropriate policy. It is incomprehensible that in Austria the price of a litre of oil is cheaper than in Slovenia and that a thousand litres of heating oil in Austria is cheaper than more than 200 euros. That's unacceptable. In the field of oil derivatives, tobacco products and alcohol, excise policy needs to be changed, which is my personal opinion. Banka Slovenije's measures to limit the credit capacity of the population of the Republic of Slovenia have brought two problems – Slovenia has a markedly low salary and the country has not done enough to solve the housing problem. The government, however, allocates only 3.7m euros to address the housing problem through this budget. I think it's underestimating, and that's not gonna get rid of it. What was the red thread of yesterday's debate in the 2020 budget, at least by coalition Members and Members? How we're going to get rid of the fiscal rule, how we're going to loosen it up a little bit, those were the words. But, honourable Members of the coalition, by loosening or abolishing the fiscal rule, you will obtain perhaps 100 or 200 million. Do you realize that you have €3 billion in Brussels, 3 billion in Brussels that you do not know how to collect? An inexhaustible tax debt is yours — 1 billion, 4 billion are yours, and you would loosen and abolish the fiscal rule to get 100 million. The list of Marjan Šarc confirmed this, and in part the Social Democrats and the SAB, let us loosen the fiscal rule. Why would you get $100 million? We have 3 billion in Brussels, Slovenia has been without a minister in this area for more than 2 months, and in one year you have replaced two ministers for this area. We are 19th in place after the success of drawing on European funds. But for 100 million, you would have loosened the fiscal rule. Half an hour ago, in the hall, a loud applause was made by young Ambassador Unicef, who was justified. But it is a fiscal rule because of her; that some incompetent government such as yours shall not put the young generation in charge of heaven. Think about it. She justifiably had a round of applause. But the fiscal rule is precisely because of them that incompetent governments such as yours will not be in debt to the sky, 32 billion euros we have a debt, and you would be undercutting the fiscal rule at 2.5 billion euros in higher tax revenues compared to 2014. Look in the mirror whether you're capable or not. No, you have 3 billion uncollected money lying in Brussels waiting for projects; even more, Slovenia had to repay 60 million European money because of your inability to pay back 60 million European money, 60 million European money was coming back because you gave projects that were not then implemented on your part; and 60 million had to be returned to Brussels. One billion tax debt, but you would either loosen the fiscal rule or even abolish it. I don't think this road is right. It's not right. And there is no reason to be supported by such a draft budget. We have tabled a series of amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party, amendments redistributing funds. The key amendments are also in the SDS's opinion and in my opinion are 150 million to solve the housing problem, 80 million to deal with care for the elderly, for homes for the elderly. You have 6 million in the budget to build a home for the elderly, 10 years or 12 years. Yesterday we heard that the country built the last home for the elderly in 2008. Dear Members and Members of the Coalition, imagine! Where have you spent the 2.5 billion that the economy and working people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have produced? Where did that money go? Because for investments you have invested 81 million more and you would now loosen the fiscal rule. Once again, you have 3 billion in Brussels, you have a billion in Furs because of the unrecovered tax, you have 4 billion, and you still have 2.5 billion more revenue. I think these are worrying things. The fact is, most of this money was spent on public administration salaries. It is right that wages are too low in Slovenia, but with some measures you have taken under this government, you have also made long-term fixed expenditure. I am sure that we should resolve the matter through tax reform and relieve the work as well as the economy, you have enough revenue; but you also have enough resources available. There is development money in Brussels, which is irreversible, and you cannot bring it to Slovenia. And this is your problem, this is the problem of the government of Marjana Sharca and the problem of your coalition. It is also sad that the leader of the SMC Group, who was absent all day yesterday, here is attacking SDS, why we are not discussing amendments. Because we were running out of time because we had a discussion until 11pm last night. And all this says how this coalition breathes, doesn't know what the left hand does, doesn't know what the right hand does. And it is time to say – we are not able to lead Slovenia. Thursday's a good opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm opening the log-in list. Applications are under way. First of all, you have the word Mrs Violeta Tomić. Get Mr. Gregor Perič ready. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. A colleague before me had slightly abused a child who was here talking about fear, hate speech, shame, poverty and discrimination; not a fiscal rule. The fiscal rule is something our minister explained yesterday when he represented this historicly large budget, from which people don't have much. As we know, we do not have a home for the elderly, young people are still in distress, poverty among children is great. And I think that this budget should give a little bit more or a lot more weight here. You are talking about the Maastricht criteria and the fiscal rule as some deity to be respected so much, and we boast that we are one of the first ones to respect. Why are we one of the first and the best? Because the others have already abandoned him. We adjectives to a place where no one walks anymore. The German Christian Kastrop, who is the father of this fiscal rule, himself found that he was wrong and that the fiscal rule hindered development. Therefore, he called on Germany to invest in new technologies, infrastructure, the fight against climate change and so on; for only the money being invested could bring back any profits. And let me go back to the culture that I think is so very neglected in this budget that we should just yell at it. As I mentioned earlier, culture does not account for 2% of the total budget, namely 1.82%, although in its coalition commitment the coalition said it would double the money for culture. And it would be good for him to respect at least his coalition commitments. A separate budget line for NGOs in culture (NGOs) has also been promised, which employs quite a lot of cultural people and thus gives bread to our highly qualified culturers. According to CNVOS data and according to these calculations, if taken as the starting point of 2017, the amount of the promised separate budget item that we do not have for the 2020 NGOs in culture – and for 2021 a little more – should be at least 12 million. If we add the promised funds to improve the situation and content projects for self-employed people in culture, this item should be around €15 million; it is not. If the ruling coalition has seriously set itself the goal of developing a professional non-governmental culture and has written this down in its agreement, it would be necessary to know this in these documents. In this mandate, the Committee on Culture, which I lead, adopted certain conclusions. We accepted them so unanimously, but they're not here. The Minister agreed with them, and all members of the coalition and the opposition agreed with them, but this obviously means nothing. We received an increase in film production gradually to EUR 11 million per year. Then we adopted a decision to establish a central critical portal for professional art criticism. It's not like that either, because there's no means. Then we decided to regulate the status of retired ballet dancers, because at the age of five and a half years, you will not see a ballet or ballet to spin pirouettes, we really need a little sense here. The minister says they're right before the rescue. An ambulance for performing professions was also promised. The budget lacks funds for hospital allowances for self-employed persons of only 2 000 700. Only 2 thousand 700 would be sick, but it would be about 50; and yet nowhere stand alone. On the other hand, we have been spending public money on purchases of military technology, which the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces described as obsolete more than a decade ago, in short, some old iron. For a long time, the Slovenian army has been planning to purchase more modern armoured personnel to replace these obsolete vehicles. A budget in which there is no concern for the poorest, where first it does not eliminate poverty among the weak, especially children, that they would not be afraid when they come to school, that there would be no fear of telling them where their parents are from, here they would focus primarily on intolerance, which we hear more often in this hall and which puts some children into unbearable distress, including a budget where there is no home for the elderly for our elderly and who prefers those who make profits and also add money to them for investments. It is clear that production is also necessary, but remember that culture is also an economic sector. A very important economic sector without which we would not be here today. Wherever you will look through history at the intertwine of politics and culture, you will see that art has been preserved; and today you will see cultural achievements from hundreds of years or even more, millenniums ago. Who was the politician at the time or who was the boss then, and you won't know that, because it's a pretty insignificant information, because these things are fleeting. Culture – in particular one small nation such as Slovenia, that I do not say that we also have high art and artists who are recognised everywhere – should not be so neglected. I must say that since independence, for almost 30 years, no party programme has mentioned a culture; until the arrival of the Left, which we first addressed this issue. I think it has been a time to draw attention to this, but unfortunately in this budget we see that culture will still live, that culture will be at the edge of the social bottom and, above all, self-employed people will still be exhausted, underpaid and disrespected, because we know what Prešeren said: "He who sings is blind, my donkey shows him; he who sings is always lying, he lives, he dies without money." Then we set up monuments for him, but these monuments mean nothing to the artist, for he has spent his entire life in misery. And we must never believe that hungry birds sing better. No, the hungry bird is extinct sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. You have the floor, Mr. Gregor Perič. Get ready, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! This is how I will start, I find it difficult to buy an explanation that culture and social suffering in Slovenia, because in Slovenia we have decided to invest in security, whether this security is in the form of an army, police, judicial police or something else. One is related to the other and one is a prerequisite for the other that all three areas listed and all the other areas can function and also show something, create. Today we have heard this claim again that there is not enough resources in the area of housing policy, here again it has to be stressed that once the new Housing Law is confirmed, this will then be the basis for the budget to be introduced or put in place the appropriate resources, which will then be the lever for the management of a more comprehensive housing policy. This has already been said many times, and it will obviously need to be stressed again, because obviously all of this information has not yet come in full form, but I believe that in future discussions a number of people will be able to get to know each other. The new Housing Law also provides for greater resources to allow for a different way of managing housing policy, including from a different policy to rentals themselves, i.e. to a more cost-effective rent that will reflect what is on the market today. At this point, there is some kind of covert subsidisation that is harmful to everyone in the medium or long term, and especially to those who do not yet have a right to a non-profit apartment, they would need it, or they would still be entitled to it. The adoption of the Housing Law will regulate this area and at the same time we have a proposal on the table that the coalition agrees with. In the SMC, we have proposed that in 2020 and 2021, each year, a guarantee of 200 million for loans, in particular for young families, be provided in order to facilitate the resolution of their housing problem. We believe that, in addition to the measures under the Housing Law and this 400 million for guarantee loans, the area of housing policy will be significantly different from that of the past, because unfortunately, for various reasons, even very well-founded, the government has not given due attention to this area. As far as fiscal rules are concerned, we have repeatedly pointed out in the SMC that we want some more cautious policies and that we should not be aware of the current optimism in the field of economy as well. If we monitor developments within the region and also globally, we see how quickly things can change, how some conflicts, some tensions, customs or others, including wars can affect economic optimism, economic growth. Of course, we all want the leaders of important countries to maintain this commitment or the affection of multilateralism, because in this case Slovenia will also be much easier to sell or be active in international markets. However, since we do not know what will happen, the fiscal rule is an appropriate guarantee before we are sometimes misled by what is happening within politics and made decisions that are not sufficiently deliberate. I will also touch on the procedural proposal of my colleague Zorčič. My colleague Pogačnik was no longer with us until 11 p.m. yesterday, an interesting debate developed in the context of the 2020 budget debate, and questions were falling to the government side, including a colleague of Montenegro, but there was also no time for answers. This logic or this approach, if I say so, which you introduced in the SDS, then if you get it back, don't be surprised. Let me only conclude with these estimates, which are very common practice here and are sometimes flat-rate – whether the government is capable or incapable; whether the coalition is capable or not. Let me stress once again that at this point we still have a minority government, the coalition within the National Assembly does not have a majority, which means that the opposition has a majority. And because we accept the coalition draft budget and the coalition has no majority or that it has been able to find it, if we look within these parameters, then we could come to the conclusion with some logical explanation that the government or coalition is not capable, but we could say that the opposition is incompetent. Although it has a majority within the National Assembly, it is not possible to adopt a budget for a government that is to their extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u17	The replica has a mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I'd just like to tell my colleague Peric that I was here by 11:00 yesterday, and I left the meeting of the National Assembly when the chairman finished it. Think a little bit about what words you say, don't lie, don't deceive. The second fact is, tomorrow will be decided, tomorrow will be the vote. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment of 150 million in the area of housing. And you're talking -- it's gonna be okay, we've made the apartment law. When? Where's the guarantee that he'll be accepted? According to my behavior, he's coming to the National Assembly of March, that's what they said yesterday. Where's the month of March? Yesterday, however, the finance minister told us that he would resign in the event that such a budget was not voted on as proposed. There's a lot of stuff like that, and tomorrow's an opportunity. Housing issues should be resolved 20 years ago. No, you're still talking – wait, we've prepared a solution. Read yesterday's article in one of the Slovenian media: Forecasts about the number of newly built apartments in Ljubljana will not be realized. Perhaps only one third of what was foretold will be built. Thus, it is not expected that real estate prices will decrease substantially. That's not how it works, buddy Perič, you're gonna be stocked up, something you're gonna back up tomorrow! [[…]] For municipalities, the matter went through the Committee on Finance, probably some Members are aware of the problems of municipalities and supported the amendments of SDS and New Slovenia. Tomorrow is an opportunity for 150 million because we are aware of the problem and we have also redeployed funds. And you're not going to solve this tomorrow, but in six months or one year from now. Where is the guarantee that the Housing Law will be passed in the National Assembly and the scheme? You haven't said anything yet. I ask for some seriousness, the electorate and the electorate follow up on this matter. And you are falling like the snow of land, which has fallen two days ago, so your support falls, and it is justified. The masks are down.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u19	The replica's over. You have the floor, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Get ready, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Either colleague Perič is not aware of everything that is going on in the coalition or he is manipulating this national assembly and the public. One and the other is probably, probably the other more than the first, because I doubt he'd be familiar with it because he listens to what's going on around him and he's part of this coalition. Mr Golubovic, Head of the LMŠ Group, told you yesterday – and I think you have not heard this – that your minority government has enough votes for these budgets and for ZIPRS because Mr Jelinčič has publicly announced that he will support these budgets. There is no fear here, since you have been uncritically supported by both Members of the Nationality since the beginning of your term of office, there are so many more. And what kind of concerns do I think you don't have to work and I don't think you're doing them, but you're creating some artificial pressure in public to somehow raise the importance of your decision-making, which unfortunately isn't here. In my opinion, we should raise the importance of making decisions on good things, on good budgets in particular. We already talked yesterday about the 2020 budget, and today, when we have a budget for 2021 on the table, we can reiterate that budgets are essentially for taxpayers' money, for the money of all those who in any way contribute these funds to the state treasury. It is the money of that pensioner or pensioner who has 500 euros in pension or even less, and he has to buy every day bread that is taxed and pays VAT on it, and also for the money of that mechanic who has to serve his bread hard every day with his dirty hands and is harassed by inspection. I was at the volcanoer's when it was the biggest crowd, and they came from Fursa when he had a full workshop. For the last time on Twitter, I made a joke that a country that is globally known for its waiting lines was needed this year to replace tires. I was with my volcanoer, who I've been going to for 20 years, and he said, "It's ringing, it's crazy this year, I can't take you before November 20." And I had to go to another. But when it's the biggest crowd, the tax collectors come to control whether these poor people are taxing or not. They come to the house, they put on Twitter a short time ago. But they're not in the millions of hiding places where you don't have to go home because things happen on the Internet. When we talk about the budget, we are talking about the money of these people, these people, who, with their own hands, their own work, by buying the services they urgently need to survive, are paying taxes to the country. And of course all successful entrepreneurs who pay so much more and so on that I do not neglect this part of the economy. As a result, the planning of policies in the budget should be viewed from this perspective, not from the point of view of billions. In terms of cents, euros, 10 euros, 100 euros, 1,000, 100,000 and so on. What this government is doing, and practically all the left governments so far, is looking from top to bottom, not from bottom to bottom. As a result, we do not have the right policies and therefore do not have the right cut in this budget. For if we were to look at, as every housewife, pensioner or pensioner should see, to survive with 500 or less euros, then, believe me, this budget, with these results recorded in these years, would be significantly different from today. It's fundamentally different than it is today. And we wouldn't talk about more than 2 billion revenue than we had on taxes and contributions five years ago, we only have 80 million more investments. We wouldn't talk about it. If planning were to be from this point of view, we would not be talking about having more than billions of euros in health care problems in the last three years than we had a few years ago or even more in some segments. More importantly, we have the comprehensive renovations needed by the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, which is unable to provide adequate services also because it is an object that is so old and requires adequate renovation, to ensure that people in this institution work normally; but there is no money for it. However, there is no money for this with more than 3 billion European funds, one of which could be spent for this purpose, not scattered on more than 4 thousand projects, as approved by the government of Alenka Bratušek when it changed the operational programmes, after the other government of Janševa left its seats. We should talk about this today. Today and yesterday, there should be a debate about whether it is better to invest in the renovation of a health centre, a hospital; whether it is better to make a home somewhere for an elderly or nursing hospital, which we absolutely do not need; it is not. But we don't even talk about it. Yesterday and today we are talking, sorry, one of the nebulos we heard was that we have the best budget in the world. Be careful, the best budget in the world has Slovenia. Then in the evening we heard the peak of the bluff. Slovenia is warming up twice as fast as the world, said deputy minister in charge of the environment, Mr Marko Maver. I told you yesterday, and today I can say it again, if a child says it, he can't blame what was repeated for that phone. But if the Deputy Minister says that Slovenia is warming up twice as fast as the world, forgive me, and underpins the high water that has been happening in recent days, high tides in Venice with climate change; and at the same time says that such high waters have not been there for 150 years, which has been a lie – anyone who has slightly Googled can see that Venice had high water 53 years ago, 1966, 7 centimetres higher than it is today; at that time, the 193 record has now been 187 centimeters – and this deliberately connects to climate change and this fight, then one wonders whether there is really a lack of knowledge behind or a basis for the 184 million that the government on its Twitter account has praised before the day that it is intended to fight climate change, is once again used to pump up such and other consultative institutions, as it has been on its Twitter account, to commend 74 million for advice on how to do it. It's probably more in the background than the real fight against what's actually happening in the world because the world is a pig. The Council is a pig and Slovenia part of this mess, the waste is too much. Megaindustry creates them deliberately, consumer habits have gone in a direction that is no longer worth repairing. Last time my washing machine broke down, the repairman said: "It's not worth repairing, it's going to be €90 and it's going to cost 250. I said, "No, we'll fix it, we'll fix it, we'll fix it, we'll fix it, we'll fix it, we'll fix it, we'll fix it. We have come into philosophy, but Slovenia is a small part of this world of this pig. Nevertheless, we should do something about it by warming up twice as fast as the rest of the world. Are we warming up because in the last year, garbage has been burning all over Slovenia? And in some dumps around Lenart, even three times at the same waste disposal; but no one did anything, instead of burning where they belong and where emissions are controlled. It's all gone up in the air. All that you took in a year ago was an intervention law. And by the way, where's the system law now? Within a month there will be a year when the system law on waste management has been promised. When we passed an intervention law for more than 10,000 tonnes of waste packaging and 2,000 tons of candles, for which the state was supposed to pay extra money to solve this problem, we saw how it got rid of it. It was mostly hot out in the open. You're talking about 184 million to fight climate change, please. Is it possible that Slovenia is warming up twice as fast because the frequency of freight traffic through Slovenia has petered over the last ten years? We could've done something here, too. You can raise the toll, but they won't drive through Slovenia anymore. Dars will have ten times less income, but to do so. You won't get them on the trains, what you told Cerar when you started propaganda about the referendum. Are there trains going to be on the 27-mile track? Because you can't get them anyway, because it's technically and practically impossible. So why is Slovenia warming up twice as fast as the world? Why? Not because it is a bluff, so that the pumping of the taxpayer’s money, which, as I initially said, will be contributed by every pensioner, every pensioner, every worker who works with his own hands, every day serving bread hard and has to endure the torture of financial inspectors when he has the most work to do. Here are the reasons why, of course, this budget cannot be supported. Additional reasons why it cannot be supported are the arguments of the individual secretaries of state that we listened to here yesterday. These arguments suggest not only that there are no mechanisms in these acts, but also that there is no willingness to do anything in this area. From what we listened to yesterday, I can conclude: People, although money is essential more than ever in the health department, these services will not be any better for you in the next two years. I can conclude this from these budgets – they will not be any better, you will continue to wait and die in waiting lines. Secondly, I can conclude – one home for the elderly will not be built in the next two years. It has not been built for 12 years, the last in the time of the first Janša government, and in the next two years it will also not be obvious that any concession may be granted if the pressure is high enough, but the colleagues from Levi say that it is not the right way to pump capitalists. Really? If we pay the same services as in state homes. Nothing's going to move here, either. Apparently, individual hospitals, some of which are extremely good, successful, and quality, are left to themselves when they are looking for ways to help people by creating some new hospital beds in nursing hospitals because they are not enough and because they do not have state support to give them one hand. Do we have a plan — not a study of 74 million — where we will find out what we will do in the next five to ten years to have people on the one hand, because the population is trying to make life expectancy longer, normal home care when they need it at a normal price, or that those who cannot do so will be subsidized? Do we have a solution to what we will do to people who will need care and medical treatment after surgery to reach it and to rehabilitate themselves appropriately? We don't. We do not have these answers; as we do not have answers on housing policy, where the Prime Minister stressed from his hand that within two years we will build a thousand and 500 apartments each year. That's impossible. Today, we should have legal building permits for these apartments that he was talking about if this were to happen. There will be about 600 to 700 of them, and no more in two years. This is because it had already been set up, not because of this government, what the Director of the Housing Fund had planned and done a few years ago; as the Housing Law had been prepared for some time and has now come to the final attention after a long period of years, although after the Resolution on the National Housing Programme it should have been dealt with by the Cerarje government in 2016. Three years later, this apartment law comes into effect. We should talk today about whether the solutions proposed by the government are appropriate or not for individual groups of the population; and whether these solutions should be improved by discussion in this national assembly instead of a home for older people to rebuild a hospital at the other end, which is more necessary. We should talk about this, but unfortunately we can't talk about it because it's not, it's not in these budgets. We can base and convince the budget majority with amendments, this time the minority government plus the party that will support this budget, which is most, that something has to be done, and we will probably – whether or not – be successful, we will see. This debate today, and if it continues tomorrow, it will show, and above all, the vote tomorrow after 2 p.m. Today we've heard about 30 years of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We have heard that a few steps have been taken in a positive direction in this recent period, especially in the civilized world, and that the greatest problems are where poverty is, and where obvious help does not come in the right way, and this policy, led by the great players, will need to be changed; but let us leave it. I think we need to see if the children in this country are equal. Are children in this country equal? They're not. The Constitutional Court said that children in that country were not equal and ordered the National Assembly to eliminate this inequality of children. The National Assembly did not do so; not at the time of the Cerara government, not at the time of the currently recycled government, but also in these budgets 2020 and 2021. Do you know how much money it takes to get rid of this unevenly? What do you think? A million, 2, 10, 100, billion? No, 300 to 500 thousand euros a year. 300 to 500 000 euros to eliminate the inequalities of children who go to educational institutions and listen to the same public programme. One who goes to an institution that is paid in one way or another by the State or by the congregation, because a school must be provided by the congregation to build it, is in a different position than one that goes to a private institution, where a private person — such as the Waldorf School — has to make sure that the premises are built. And the state won't give him a dime at the cost of the program. It is said that he must himself, because he has a broader mission, take care of these premises; but he is deprived of the funding of the program. He only gets 60, 80, 85% paid, not 100. And in order to eliminate this inequality of children, because this is the case, it is necessary to allocate €350,000 per year in the budget. And that's not it. This coalition has not done so, and apparently it has no intention of doing so. Sometimes when you're full of beautiful words, you have to get a little bit of ash and look at yourself. Saying nice doesn't help anything. Leprosy does not help anything, shovel and hack should be taken into hands when something has to be done, beauty-telling and philosophizing to those people who need help does not help much. Of course, in this national assembly, we have the power to do so, not just the power, but primarily the responsibility. It's the responsibility of all these people to do this. When we talked about the problem of waste, we also listened to a very strong philosophy from the Secretary of State, otherwise very short and rare; but we did not get an answer as to what we would do in this area. It's been said that China has closed down, doesn't want any more, forgive the expression, take over our shit. So what do we do with him now? We're looking for solutions, it was said. Will we have a new incinerator? Rather, it is called a heat treatment plant for these wastes because the incinerator has a negative connotation, and in fact it is a heat treatment plant for these wastes. Are we going to use one of the existing facilities? For example Celje, Trbovlje, Primorska, because there are already foreign garbage and foreign waste in these establishments and ours cannot. Why not? Because we have too complicated bureaucracy to get the right permits and everything that's new takes years and years. And because ugly capitalists otherwise take care of their wastes and there is significantly less insurrection in them when they are brought to the heat treatment center. That's why this is happening. And here we had yesterday a deputy minister responsible for the environment, and we listened to the nebulos about Slovenia spinning twice as fast as the rest of the world; around its axis or around the sun. I think that some heads are overheated because the authorities have gone too far into their heads, and that's why we have a big problem in this country. As far as these two budgets are concerned, we have a problem. And to conclude. Yesterday, I listened to the minister who was afraid of this Parliament, and it was said that if funds were to be received for the municipalities so that the municipalities would receive an additional 140 million euros, which, by the way, would be the most useful investment funds spent, and then we would probably no longer have a finance minister. I must say that, according to these words, I am truly afraid of such a minister who has feared that he is unable to redistribute 1% of the budget. At 10.5 billion, the minister said he was unable to redistribute 140 million. If he can't redistribute it, then I'm sure he's got a team of people around him, at least one secretary of state who's capable of doing it in less than an hour. Less than one hour is capable of redistributing 1% of the budget for a good purpose if, of course, it were given the power of this national assembly and the minister to do so. And we'll make that decision tomorrow. It is important to ask whether you will decide or vote against your people, because the amendment you tabled by the coalition parties reduces these funds. In the municipalities where you have been elected, you will reduce the resources for development and investment to the people living there, if this amendment you have tabled is also supported. Think about it by tomorrow. I don't think that's a smart move if you ever want to represent these people in this House again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. He has, as a last word, Mr Jože Lenart. Then there'll probably be a wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Today's debate with Comrade Pogačnik was really populism brave, and especially misleading. If you repeat the same things a hundred times, people start to believe. And you probably believe yourself when you say that. And for that reason, I have to repeat it again today, because at least in half of the cases, I have answered what is misleading. With regard to the apparent failure of this government to act on the 32 billion debt that was created, colleague Pogačnik forgot to say when, with what ease and irresponsibility this debt was incurred. When did you get here? In what period? We can clear that up, too. And today, to point to this government or economy and citizens who have created, who will have to repay this debt and thereby renounce higher standards and development. Yeah, it's gonna be hard to pay back and reduce your debt. During this two-year budget period, we will already reach the target of 60% of GDP or reach this Maastricht criterion. Growth in debt development and reduction – Slovenia is the fastest in Europe. Or was I being populist about what I just said? Or was I deceiving? I said that because I read it. Where did 2.5 billion euros go? In the last month, we spoke at least ten times in this national assembly and also on committees about the 2.5 billion where they went. Don't we know math?Oh, my God! In 2014, there was a billionth deficit. Today we're talking about half a billion surplus. Do we know how much this is? A billion and a half. During this period, we abolished the austerity measures that were put in place during that period. People got that back. From the budget we earmark 13% for social transfers. What country in Europe has this percentage of the budget for social transfers? We've increased the resources for development as far as we can. But it could be even more significant if the 24 billion new debt created in this period were not recklessly created. And of course, if that debt were not there, today we would be able to invest significantly more in development and elsewhere. I think I've been clear enough to answer that one one more time. And I'm afraid someone will still repeat what was said today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Honourable Members, honourable Members, just one question is whether there is still a desire for discussion. I see it is, so we'll have another round of applications. Mr. Blackach has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I think it would be fair for my colleague Lenart to tell me when this debt he was talking about was due. I figured he'd say that, so he stopped. By 2004, it had reached 7 billion; in 2004 to 2008, it had increased by one billion to 8 billion. At the time of the Pahor government in 2009-2011, it increased to 25 billion. And the rest of the level so far has been produced mainly by the government of Alenka Bratušek through the rehabilitation of banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u25	Dear Members, I am reopening my application to the list. The procedure is open. Thank you. We have six reports. We'll repeat the applications, don't worry, we'll be here by 11:00 tonight, time will be more than enough. The first word is Mrs Violeta Tomić. Get Mr. Boris Doblekar ready. Madam Ambassador, the word is yours again, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. Apparently, it's a quick-finger game that can be signed up for the first time. I would just like to say this; when the economic crisis struck in 2008, it hit the poorest, the weakest. During that period of maximum belt tightening, the number of multibillionaires doubled. And we should be aware of this today when Umar announces the cooling-up of the economy and our ministry is immediately on its way to the weakest who have not recovered from the previous crisis. And also, the culture I spoke about earlier experienced the greatest incisions of all other sectors. And once again, I must stress that you do not see culture as a cost, an equivalent economic sector, otherwise very stepmotherly treated and neglected. In short, in times of conjunctura, when we boasted of record economic growth, those who paid for this economic growth and felt it most on their skin did not do enough, did not arrive at a time before the crisis. I'm talking about pensioners, I'm talking about poor employees, I'm talking about socially weak people, poor children, their families and so on. And when I hear that work is not worth it and work is not worth it, why don't you raise your wages?Oh, my God! Why do we not require employers to normally pay employees who work, but not to import workers from other countries where they are used as slaves? And we have these cases from the Slovenian state forests, to the construction sector and so on. In this case, our people don't want to work under such conditions, and they can't work. When Umar announced the cooling of the economy, it was immediately launched to cut off the poorest, to abolish the allowance for labour activity, social transfers to attack, to impose forced labour and so on. But we only follow competitiveness, competitiveness based on exploitation and lack of respect for work. On the other hand, you reduce budget revenues by tax exemptions to the richest. There's a strange logic here, because the gap between the poorest and the richest is deepening. It's never good and it's not a healthy society, our middle layer is kind of disappearing. When we're talking about warming up the planet, as you said before, or you've never thought that more than driving an electric car or a diesel, the warming of the planet is influenced by wars in which we invest heavily. Wars are the ones that destroy complete areas. The second is the burning of Amazon forests in the name of profit, cattle, for example the sowing of feed for these animals. And that's how we disappear all kinds of animal species forever. And why are they chopping up and burning down the jungles? For profit, for greed, because today it is very important that we eat mango instead of apples, because it is very important that we have palm oil, which is free of charge, and we forget that we have noisy, olive, tail oil at home and so on. Once we are aware of what priorities are, we may be able to make decisions more easily. Yesterday I was here almost 11:00, and then I came home and I turned on the TV and there was this very interesting American film about how the American Army was doing its operations in Iraq. After the twins fell, the protection of American interests seemed to have attacked Iraq and, as we know, triggered an increase in extremism, refugees and so on. Pilots don't fly anymore, but they sit in air-conditioned rooms where they have a screen in front of them, where they see the house very precisely. When they hit the button, it takes 10 seconds for this house to blow up. In case they accidentally run past the children, they say – Oops, what now? Nothing. The house may be residential, there's women, there's children, but there's a risk. And then we listen today when these people are running away – Why do they not fight like we did here in our ten - day glorious war? Whom should they fight? Against someone if you drop a grenade from the sky while you're in bed, and you blow up everything you've got. The war and war industries, my dears, are the worst evils of mankind. And the promotion of nuclear weapons, which burns everything, isn't exactly ecological, it will destroy our planet, it will ruin our life on Earth, because there will always be some who will want to attack someone because it has a lot of oil, or because it lives on a rich earth. There will always be some who will be able to convince them that it is necessary to kill a nation because they are only a threat because they are. We know there's multiple modified data, which is why they send people to war. And only when our conscience is so strong that we will rather invest in people and not in death, as you say it was written at one school, and the weapon is death when the last soldier drops his weapon and says he won't shoot his fellow man; then we will live in a world that I hope he will one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion. You have the floor, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Get ready, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, President, Members of the Government! I was already quickly afraid that we were in some war state; and then I somehow realized that I was in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, where there is peace, friendship, love, compassion and so on. Our budget is also very social, as I said yesterday in the debate on the 2020 budget. However, it is still my opinion that even the 2021 budget is too much money for soft projects, for migrants, for certain non-governmental organisations, of which there is no added value, no harm, and no misunderstanding. We are aware of this because it is often the ministries that support or finance certain non-governmental organisations that grow like mushrooms in the rain and say how many problems they cause on the other hand. A lot of money for studies, for different research, for different projects that don't come back to life. Of course, money is still leaking through various debt write-offs to some dedicated, on various projects that do not live for such and different reasons, because obviously no one can hit the table, with various straw companies, various transactions, money laundering and so on. How many billions have disappeared from Slovenia are some guesses, some estimates of various institutions, countries, security and intelligence services and so on. A huge billion money went missing, a huge billion went into our bank hole when it was caused by those or by the predecessors of those who are now talking — how bad it is now, how hard it is, how bad wages are, how undeveloped everything is, how everything has gone wrong, where people have gone, what's going on. These are all the consequences of the unwise conduct of authority so far. But we know what kind of system we were living in and somehow got together, we're getting together, but we still have a lot of problems and we're going very slowly. That I will be very specific about this budget and not waste too much time, because we will urgently need it in the debate on the amendments to touch the economy here. We have already heard that there is not enough resources, too little will to encourage the economy with various measures, particularly medium-sized enterprises, young people who want to go into an economy that wants to become entrepreneurs. On the other hand, we like to tighten our belts to the economy with various new taxes or non-reliefs, which is not right. We need to be aware that the economy is filling our budget. These papers, the pile of papers we have in front of us, are inside the money from the economy, entrepreneurs, people who work and make money. Then I'd say more about nursing homes. This is the concern of all of us who are in here, and of all those who are outside this building; in the whole country. We all stress this, we are all aware of the problems and problems, but we know that there is no means in the budget for 2021 to build new homes for the elderly. When it is repeatedly emphasized that no home has been built for the elderly in the last ten years, that is not true. A home for the elderly has been built, and this has been built in Lithuania, with its own resources, without the assistance of the state. We expected 7 million euros from the state for nothing. Lithia took care of the elderly herself, our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, who urgently need a bed in a nursing home. 92 of them are in there, 17 protected apartments, and we have also built a work centre for disabled people. There was no help from the state, but we're hoping to get some help back. I hope that there will be a common language and something will happen that we can also say that the state supports institutional protection, that it cares for the elderly and so on. 7 million euros is not enough money. This is a large sum, and the congregation has been facing difficulties since the beginning of this work, which was urgently needed. The country just waved with its hand, setting the conditions for construction to be even more expensive. A lot of trouble, nothing good on the side of the country. That's why we had to do this on our own, and the house has been built in the last ten years. As for the funds for the construction of kindergartens and schools, we have already warned that I do not know how many times and again, and I warn again, it is not right that we are so macho, otherwise I must be involved because I am a Member, but I am more than enough to warn and speak, I cannot do it. Unfortunately, if the state doesn't listen to old objects, they're obsolete. For Hotič, I do not see an item in the budget anywhere, nor for a carousel that has been waiting for 20 years, has the documents been regulated for 20 years. Isn't that sad? There's not even gonna be money for school that's 120 years old. The founder, this is the congregation, is working with those small means to maintain this decaying facility. Children are disadvantaged, so second-rate. They are not equal to those children who have new schools, new spaces, beautiful, bright; and they are disadvantaged. In 120 years old school, he learns to be wet, on a pretzel, and so on. This is not the way, and we know that the country should make substantial resources here for such things, including kindergartens. The municipalities are poor with budgets. There's very little development. We know that some municipalities can acquire much more resources, especially in the city, and that smaller ones are choked in debt and are no longer able to provide funds for those legal things imposed by the State. And that is why it would still be right – and I hope that we all understand – that we will jointly support this proposal to increase the average of municipalities in Slovenia, because this money will be turned by every euro municipality to make three, four, five or more of that euro. They urgently need money from the municipalities, including so that projects can be prepared at all, so that they can also apply for European funds, as that is clear to everyone. If the municipality alone does not have enough resources, projects, especially major investments, cannot be made and cannot even apply for any European funds; then we wonder why there is no European money. I hope we find a common language so we can all understand that. The mayors are still looking forward to this, everyone is expecting this, this would be some big contribution and the only smartly spent or invested money from this budget. Once again, there is not enough money for flood protection, we invest it in eliminating the consequences when it is necessary to intervene when everything is flooded, destroyed; but not to pre-prepared streams, crayons, river banks, clean up streams of branches, deepen the cracks and so on, everything experts know and do not do. That's very sad. Protection and rescue. Many municipalities, which had to unite and work in some way to work for regional waste centres themselves, also want protection and rescue centres, and cannot afford them with these budgets. We know there were 150 years of fire in Metlika that we were full of mouths, both the Prime Minister of the Government and everyone, what we're going to do for firefighters, but there's no means for that. Let us hope that at least more resources will be allocated to the European budget, and then together we can build these centres, which are urgently needed, through larger municipalities, where firefighters, rescue workers, and usually the police will come along, which is also the right thing to have all these institutions in one place and to take care of our security. We know what to do about the railroad. We want to be a carbon-free society, sustainable mobile. We were working on road transport strategies where projects were very expensive, this had to be paid. There are a lot of beautiful sentences in there that we will not pollute the environment as we drive through public transport; on the other hand, we do not invest enough money specifically in the reconstruction of railways, so that trains will be faster, more comfortable, safer so that there will be no reduced speeds than is now happening and people will be deterred from driving by train. If we do not invest any more money in the reconstruction of the route, as we also have a proposal for the mountain line, which is absolutely necessary, because the mayors of the municipalities of Gorenje have also asked that they have reserved funds in the local budgets to add their participation here, what needs to be done, these are crossings, approaches, overpasses, regulating stations and so on. You've reduced your funds, you've taken them back to Grosuplje Station. They're building a new garage in Grosuplje on the station, they're doing their best to get people on the railway, and you've withdrawn the funds to rebuild the train station. Isn't that sad? In short, we're doing the opposite as it should be. I hope someone doesn't say it's populist, but it's a sad reality. We also face problems in Lithuania because the parking lot is too small for all cars, for all the people who go on the train. Everybody wants to ride a train. They've got nowhere else to park and they're going with the car, normal. They have monthly maps, they can't park and they go and they pollute and they make a commotion against Ljubljana, towards this road towards Ljubljana, which would have long needed some comprehensive, thorough renovations, from all over Zasavje. But we all know that, too bad, I'm stressing it again. I think I've somehow covered those urgent matters that I was going to talk to you about in the budget for 2021. We know what the budget is like, how it's made up, where the funds go. If you hear anything from us in the amendments and confirm anything, we'll be very pleased. Not only us, but also all those citizens, the citizens who have turned to us and asked us to submit these amendments to correct certain things that you may not have noticed. I'm not gonna say you didn't want to see them. Maybe I'll get it over with. In the end, just to remember, let's keep the museum trains on the railway, our heritage, the railway that brought the economy, development and so forth to our Slovenia in some past years. Keep the steam train, the museum trains, spend the money, help Slovenian railways, passenger traffic, keep this steam train alive and keep the laufa going; without the next year everything will die, which makes me very sad. So much for me in this budget and once again the appeal that we actually turn our heads and devote more money to Slovenian municipalities by raising the average or principal. This will be the most that this government will be able to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the word forward, it will not be a comment, but I wrote it down – we are in a parliament where there is peace, friendship, love and compassion. I'll try to do that myself. And now we're moving on to you, Mr. Joseph Horvath. Get ready, Mr. Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will begin my debate in the spirit of today’s world children’s day. Of course, here we all think of children's rights. This State Assembly or this country has already enshrined children's rights and, of course, should also realize them [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u31	Mr. Ambassador, just let me in a little bit. I was just reacting, as far as it's concerned, and as a result, there's noise in the little hall. If you want, we can wait, but you can keep talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u32	I will proceed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u33	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u34	Mr President, I'm going to speak a little louder. One of the fundamental rights of children is, in my understanding, and in accordance with the Declaration on the Rights of the Child, also the right to education. This right must be granted to children by whom? State. We are a country, all citizens and citizens, and the institutions of the country are parliament, government and other institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, this is not the case in Slovenia. We don't have or we won't have enough schools in a short time. We have seen this in early September when we wanted to help the Education Minister, Dr Jerne Pical, when it was time for him to be strong enough to negotiate for a budget cake. At that time, we convened an urgent meeting of the competent committee entitled Co-financing investments in schools and pre-school infrastructure owned by municipalities. The Slovenian municipalities have until 2023, this is until tomorrow, to provide an additional 14 000 251 places in primary schools. This number is true, under it is also signed by the competent minister, who was, I am grateful to him, all the time in this session which I mention; and that he thanked me for giving him support here, to him and, of course, to the children, to the Slovenian children, because they are ours. 14 thousand 251 children by 2023 means that if I have divided this number by proper regulation, 750 new departments, 750 new classes; and no money. Well, it's five million. Our schools are falling apart, not all of them, some of them. We don't have the money to replace the windows and so on. Yeah, you'll say that because it's not in all places. Of course not, unfortunately. In Ljutomer, in 2023 55 children will be fewer, in Murska Sobota 42 children will be fewer. Why? Because it's empty, but that's another story I'm gonna come up with. But we are not just a group of Members who speak; we are also doing what is, of course, in our power. The session and the amendment. You've run us over on the board, and I believe you'll do it tomorrow, because tomorrow will be the world's day of children's rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that you're afraid for your existence, because the Minister of Finance said, "But if this budget is not adopted in this exact form, then it's over, and then I won't be the Minister of Finance anymore." We answer and we are here, 90 of us are here because and for two million of our citizens. Despite the expansion and development of artificial intelligence, the Member is still a person with natural intelligence, emotion, responsibility and conscience. Don't let them discipline you to handcuff you. Come in. So we put in with the SDS or each of our amendments to raise the average to help the congregations build these schools. For who? For our children. Politics with integrity is a policy that says what it thinks, and does what it says; everything else is a bluff, sorry. This is actually about primary school students that we have so much more. Thank God they're all born and we know how to count them – 14 thousand 251. Please tell me, government representatives, you, colleagues and colleagues, how you're going to handle this. If the answer is satisfactory, we will withdraw this amendment and the average and right amendment for 2020 and 2021 if you have solutions. But 2023 is here; how many years do we need for a building permit? Well, what do you say. The housing law, yes, of course, when it will, will; but the budget is finished, until 2021 it is stuck. You can say, like, a million, two, three to ten, that's probably how you'll answer me. For apartments, for housing problems, to solve the housing problem of young people, you have 3 million 700 in a coalition contract because the paper carries everything. And you said, by the end of the budget mandate, that's what we're dealing with today, we're not dealing with the housing fund, the budget, 0.4% of GDP, that's 160 million. Where are your Euros? They're gone. As far as the average is concerned, there are now various debates here. I strongly agree with Minister Rudy Bear, who says that a formula should be made. I absolutely support him, but the budget is now on the table. One more thing. Where's the money for the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions? What's the line? I have given the government the initiative to develop border areas of concern, and it is my responsibility to prepare a programme of four-year development incentives for border areas. Where's that money? It is good that the border areas are supported morally by the government. I can also understand that the government, in the far northeast, has informed us — you are just developing until you have failed or this region has been emptied. That's why I talked earlier about children who are getting smaller, specifically in Ljutomer and the Municipality of Murska Sobota. Economy; today many, especially ministers, the President of the Government, will take pictures at the 14th summit of the Slovenian economy entitled Do Slovenije 5.0 with confidence, innovation and development. Where are the resources in the development budget? Austria gives seventeen times more resources for development. I understand that the only way to get the most money is to give it to the company if the state doesn't pick it up. Taxes will be higher and economists report that 2020 will be dog, dogs will be for businesses because they are higher taxes because you have raised them, higher taxes, cooling markets and more creditless customers. And that's it. Colleagues and colleagues, where is the money for coherent regional development? Where? If anyone thinks that Slovenia is just Ljubljana, it's wrong. We also pay taxes there in the far east, in the far south, Koroška. And once again, as I said yesterday, I can't accept the Secretary of Finance's statement, I appreciate his business career, his professor's career, but I can't stand to put the ultimates in front of you. But if he's not a minister, someone else will be, say my colleague Lenart, who is also a financier. I'm not disheartened that you're going to sit down to some lunch today, and I know everyone pays for it, but I'm not happy with the menu because I have the title of discipline. Such a working lunch within a coalition, within any collective, must be a great deal to keep people talking, but not in the way that I see it now; but I don't want to be around how this is going to happen. I am really asking for specific answers to these few questions that I have asked. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have little suction because we have given too little time at this point, but we will, if not earlier, explain the vote in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Primož Siter. Get ready, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Messengers, welcome! I would start my contribution to this debate with a reply or some kind of replica to the implementation of colleague Perič, who, with one statement, perfectly described the state of spirit of the current coalition and the environment in which these budgetary documents that we are considering today were produced. Perič says it is difficult to say that in Slovenia culture and social suffering. God help, but who in Slovenia does not suffer if not culture and social. Or does anyone know any culturer, any independent cultural worker who can say, "Uh, it's good for me, I do things that I love, I do nothing else, money comes to me, for my safety and well-being is taken care of." There are a lot of cultural workers in my social circle, and not one has ever been able to express it this way in all years. That is why we are also addressing this problem with all our work and with our amendments to the budgets. And on the other hand; it is difficult to say that in Slovenia social suffering is suffered. The 13-year-old was clear in the morning, 13-year-olds clearly have 45 000 children living below the poverty line in Slovenia. This statement was a bit bold on the one hand, and perverse on the other hand – social in Slovenia is not a problem. And that is, dear colleagues and colleagues, the environment in which these budgetary documents were created; we do not have these problems. It is logical, then, that these problems are addressed by the coalition in the way it addresses them — null. And now in these two, three days, we have heard several times the definition of what a budget is; that a budget is a personal card of a foreign policy, either overflowed or translated into numbers. During the debate, I remembered a joke that says no one is as beautiful as it is on Instagram, and as ugly as it is on my ID. And if anything's true, then that's true in this case. This budget and its, under terms, social orientation or this environment, which Perič's statement has best outlined, is precisely the worst possible picture of understanding what to set priorities. And then we have, excuse me, on the other hand; the honourable President, you've added your approval to the talk about love, respect, dialogue and I don't know what. At a time when we buy weapons, when we buy tanks, waves, when we don't even know where we're going to get money for them, we're talking about love. It's easy to talk from the messenger's chair about love, compassion, and I don't know what, tie and so on. And on the other side of the world, our people, we can't say they're pushing cocks and shooting at people, but they're teaching those who do. And I don't mean to mention, I have numbers for you. In the operation Strong support of the Republic of Slovenia has been involved since 2015, in this operation by members of the Afghan security forces. In 2015 these Afghan security forces, which we train, killed 628 civilians! A thousand 185 civilians last year! The total number of civilians killed, all fighting in the war, increased from 3 000 565 in 2015 to 3 000 804 in 2018. That is why we have also proposed the most proactive possible solution to address this problem to the 2020 budget in Levica, and this is humanitarian assistance to those people who are being shot at by our people now. And now talk about some love, respect, and I don't know what, please. We've been guilty of these 100,000 deaths since these wars in the past two decades in the Middle East. Secrets! We're here, from safe sent-away chairs! But I have to respond to the following, because at least at this time, I am talking about the problem of home for the elderly. Ambassador Chernač responded to ours, so to speak, pumping capitalists or critics – so I understood, correct me if I am wrong – in opening doors, in granting concessions. These concessionaires don't work for the good of these people. These concessionaires are not here to come and invest in the public interest. They do not even invest, as the Court of Auditors concludes, they are only there and the investment is covered by the caregivers and caregivers in the homes for the elderly themselves. However, when this investment cycle is over when they pay off their poufs — also reported by the Court of Auditors — these are still paid by their fictitious poufs by suppliers and caregivers. So much for this public interest and covering what the state does not allow. The state does not allow it, but here our criticism is common, but the solution has never been to open the door to some private people, whom we know in advance, that they will not work in the public interest, but for their earnings. And as a Ripper, my colleague, I have to comment on your proposal that we possibly take the heat treatment centre there, I believe you do not hope to declare this in the Rippers. Not only am I cheering, but in the last 20 years of this tough fight against environmental terrorism has proved more than professionally that this is not a suitable place to do it, and a dot, purely geographical. In short, we are extremely critical of all these budget documents in Levica, especially at the point where the coalition says that this is a record and uau document and is socially oriented, especially in this social field, in the area of long-term care, which I have already talked about for a long time yesterday and today. Even if you walk through the amendments, you will see our amendment, which recommends that the Government devote an additional €60 million to this area in both budget years, which will roughly address the current need for 11,000 people waiting for their place in a nursing home. Until we translate these specific calls after respect, love, all beautiful and fairy tales from the fairy tale dictionary into the numbers we are talking about today, man can be nothing more than critical to these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Just get ready, Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much again for your word. Well, we just came up with a little more specific conversation, but unfortunately during the opposition. Today we could have a fight about a home for the elderly, which is a better concept, which is worse, if we had any of it in the budget, but we have nothing, that is a problem. Otherwise, my combined concept is the best. Where vulnerable groups of people are concerned, because they are people with low pensions, the state must take care of them; but the state has not done so for 12 years and will not do anything for the next 2 years. Priority should be to build homes for older, quality homes that care for the most vulnerable groups of people. But those who have higher pensions, say retired Milan, and those who can go to a private home with concessions. With our rich pension - because we read that it amounts to €4,000,400 - we can pay for such a home. Let him pay the capitalist. Only we have the opposite. It is really wrong for us that those poor people cannot come home; there, somewhere near Murgel, we have a home that has a concession where the honourable citizens of Ljubljana can come at a low price. Otherwise, the concept that should be correct is the combination of both. None of this is there, it hasn't been there for 12 years, and there's nothing for the next 2 years. And something similar is the debate on how we will process this ever-increasing amount of waste properly, so that the environment will suffer as little as possible, because it would be the right thing to do to save things from source, so that there will be as few of these containers as possible, as little as possible of what we put needlessly into the environment; and the goods that we are accelerating, even though we do not need them, could have some old thing more time than we have. That's where we should start. But we're part of the global world, and we just have to take care of these wastes. The worst thing that's happened to us in the last year is that these wastes are burning in the open. This is happening to us now. They don't heat under control, they burn out in the open. However, I must say, you also know that there is no way forward in these budgets and also in the statements of the competent authorities, without regard to the location or the way. We've already got turns, I've been talking about it. We have plants that do this and that could do it in the future, of course not where the local environment opposes it, but that is clear. It is always necessary to listen to people and put things in such a way that they are as few distractions as possible. If someone feels that something is burdensome for him, even if all studies show otherwise, then these conflicts need to be avoided. We have enough locations in Slovenia to avoid this. However, I stopped by because, in one part of the debate, there was a debate about whether these fiscal restrictions, which this country had written down in the Constitution years ago, are limiting and burdening us in development or not. There has been a very strong debate in the sense that these are restrictions that make it impossible for us to do more than we can do within the given framework. I don't think that's true, it's just not true. Why isn't it true? Because we leave a large part of the development funds – which are grants, which are ultimately our funds received through the Brussels Treasury – for unnecessary use in Brussels or for projects that would add value to people. We've talked about this a few times. We also talked about the fact that this government has completely neglected this area, that the Party of Alenka Bratušek, who took responsibility, has already changed two ministers, now the President is doing this function; and we see that the Party's personnel pool, Alenka Bratušek, is obviously completely empty. If there is no man in Slovenia to take over this resort, and it is necessary to hire a foreign labour force from Austria to lead this resort, which is a problem, not for the country, but for the voters of this party, who have to ask who they voted for. If the client does not have people, if he does not have a person in Slovenia who could do this job competently, I think it is very sad and worrying. It would have been expected that the Prime Minister would have cut this Gordy knot, but this resort would have been taken from the customer and given by another, who has a significantly stronger pool of staff and who could have done so without a problem. But it's a coalition thing. But I think it's a matter for all of us taxpayers to be citizens, why this money is not being used economically and as it has been granted to us. I said there's a billion less money in this perspective than there was in the past. In the previous year, there were over 4 billion, and now there are over 3 billion, and we are worse off in the fifth year of use than we were in the previous perspective. In the fifth year of use, this was 2011, the rate of use was 37%. In the fifth year of the current perspective, this is 2018 and the utilization rate is 24%. This is what a member of the European Court of Auditors, Mr Only Jereb, says and holds the figures. We have 850 million currently exploited, which means that every year about 150 million of these funds have been used. 150 million euros. If we also had the timeline properly allocated, we should have some EUR 400 million per year. About 400 million euros. In order to make up for this backlog in the coming years, an average of half a billion, 500 million euros, will have to be used by the end of 2023, with the new perspective running; that is, twice as wrong. There's something else you need to say. When it was written in 2012 and the exercise was taken over by another Janša government and was better than the European average, I said – 37%, it was necessary to adopt an action plan, which was adopted within ten days, following the government's meetings on absorption capacity and the extent to which these funds were used to the end, to make full use of them. There was one advantage in that perspective, which is now not that the funds were intended for larger projects than they are today. We have heard the Prime Minister run more than 400 thousand projects, one large fragmentation and dispersion, which means a great problem and a very high probability that this money will not be committed by the end of next year. He won't be tied up. And what's worse is that he's going to be bound to projects that don't bring added value, because when he's in a hurry and when things are being resolved, then there's no good and useful spending. Here one wonders why we are not discussing today who has been responsible for more than a year so that this timeline and these funds are not properly distributed. A year ago, as we pointed out, we also pointed out that the operational programmes are changing, that the funds are earmarked for projects that we already have and that are already ready, ready to go, that was not done, and that could be done. Why we have European funds approved for the southern part of the 3rd development axis, but not for the north; this is the same project. Why were we able to tie them there and not here? Because that's probably what another government did. Today we're talking about nursing homes, nursing hospitals. Do you know how many buildings we could build with 400 million a year? I'm talking about 400 million a year that we don't spend. 150 million dollars a year is now being spent on this money, the remaining 250 million euros a year. Homes for the elderly, non-profit apartments, none of it. And then we listen to strong debates about how we can be done more, limiting the fiscal rule enshrined in the Constitution. No, what limits this country is is the operationally limited capacity of the Sharchev government and the state bureaucracy that this government has not been able to drive in the right direction. We have a very powerful state apparatus, very powerful. Given what we get back, too strong. But we do know that we have some system that was committed in 2006, based on the so-called Virant reform, and we can't just fire half of the people. If they were, the added value would be about the same as it is today, or even better, but it cannot be done. It's just that we have a situation. What the government could do, however, is to drive these people into doing specific, clever things to people. And that's not it. And that's why we're not talking today, and we're probably not going to be talking until the end of the day, except for the amendments, about why it would be better to use the funds planned in the state budget, because we don't have that on the table. We don't have it on the table. We have a very poor use of European money and we have a lack of projects where people need them most. One is investing in new capacities in health care, in nursing homes, in non-profit housing, and the other is, of course, improving the quality of services in approximately the same areas, especially in healthcare where there is still an absurdity. In health, we have very quality teams, very quality people, people who are able and willing to do twice as many operations as they are doing right now, and they can't, they can't, because they're not paid for it. And what is the result? That these people who have been trained here, educated and working in public institutions, devote much of their time in the year to operations carried out at private clinics abroad. Isn't that wrong? Wouldn't you rather pay me for these people?Oh, my God! Normally, he won't make 600 hips a year at the same price as 300, but he's capable of making 600, no problem. We have — and forgive it — a socialist system of planning what we will do in health care. About a month in April, in May, you say in that agreement, we will operate on so many cancers, so many of them, so many of them will be sent to X-rays; then you come to an X-ray at the beginning of December in one small place, and they say, "We've met the quota, come take a new year's scan. It's a system that can't work, I'm sorry. And none of this is in these budgets, although there is no problem with the lack of resources and personnel. These are the reasons why such documents cannot be validated and accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. You haven't discussed it yet, Mr. Kramar. You can't have a replica. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! A colleague of mags. Marko Pogačnik mentioned the information on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group yesterday and reiterated it today that the current government has 2.5 billion euros in revenue more than in 2014. I think that's a little bit of a delusion. I think we would get more real information if we compared this to 2008, which is with the pre-crisis period. Before the crisis, we had about 63,000 unemployed. During the crisis, this figure almost doubled; now the number of unemployed is significantly lower. It's split again, there's more revenue in the state budget. In addition, in May 2012 we had the Public Finance Balance Act, adopted by the government of Janez Janša, the then Minister of Finance was Dr. Šuštersič. That's when, say, it hit the pensioners. The total impact was around 633 million. In 2012, the impact of this law was around 332 million, in 2013 – 489 million and so on and so on. It also hit on the salaries of public servants, pensioners, as I said. The combined effects of this ominous law were more than billions of euros, and it hit just where it would be least meaningful. These data, 2014 and 2019, are not entirely realistic. Tax revenues also decreased by €819 million compared to 2008, compared with the period around the ZUJF, from €257 million to €577 million. As it is said, more real data would be obtained if we compared state cash registers with the year before the crisis, but not with 2014; but the impact of this comparison is more attractive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u42	Dear colleague Bevk, more than attractiveness to me is important content. You should know what the data was, and the fact is what it is. The number is the easiest. Compared to 2014, you now have only 2.5 billion more revenue on tax revenues. That's the number he's holding. I propose that it be confirmed by the Secretary of State, or held by this number, by about 2.5 billion is more tax revenue than it was in 2014. Dear colleague Bevk, your client has been in the history of Slovenia most often in the government, next to Desus. You were talking about ZUJF. Do you know why the ZUJF had to be adopted in 2012? Remember who ran the government three and a half years ago? Borut Pahor, led by the Social Democrats. Because of this government, ZUJF was adopted because you brought Slovenia almost before the troika; because of the disastrous leadership of the government with Borut Pahor. At that time, it was also the greatest task. That's what I'm going to talk about in the debate. You're talking about the infamous ZUJF. Six months after the adoption of the ZUJF you were in the government of Alenka Bratušek, then you were in the government of Mir Cerar, now in the government of Marjana Šarc. You had scissors and canvas, you always had 46 votes to end the ZUJF if it was so infamous. You never did because you knew you'd sink the matter, Comrade Bevk. You had three governments, you had 46 votes plus three, and you could have had ZUJF if it was so infamous, shut it down or changed it. You didn't because you knew why he was admitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Sasha the Badger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I could say that today's debate is a 95 % repeat of yesterday's debate, so I didn't even intend to respond, but I will now. I could say that there were some wrong numbers, some false claims, some possible statements taken from the context; and then they are misleading. If I start at 2.5 billion, I've really done it so many times now, if there's respect in this national council. For me, it's respect that if you give an argument, then that's understandable; but not five more times, but fine. Yes, there are now 2.5 billion more revenue than in 2014 or any year before. But in those years when there were, of course, different macroeconomic conditions, the state budgets recorded deficits, deficits, billions of billions, billions of billions, billions and billions of thousands of thousands of thousands of dollars. We were not able to cover all our expenses at the time, so there were deficits. Now that we have more revenue, we can create surpluses to at least partially cover these deficits or the generated debt caused by these deficits. In addition, in the meantime, legal obligations have also increased substantially. Since savings and restrictive measures have been abolished, public servants' salaries have increased, all measures in the area of family policy, social policy, have been released and are therefore in this budget, or in 2019 or 2020, if compared with those of several legal obligations. And the money collected by more than 2.5 billion is for people, not just public servants; all people, because the state budget is financed by public servants, all people entitled to transfers to individuals and households, companies entitled to subsidies. It is added to the pension fund to ensure that pensioners have such pensions. In fact, I would say that he went money to people and to downgrade, that is, to improve the balance that he has, because it's all connected, the impact on debt, on ratings, on fiscal rule. These things are all connected. The second theme is EU funds. In Brussels or on the road, respected, we do not have 3 billion euros. The 3 billion and 68 is the total envelope allocated to that country during the period 2014-2020. Of this, the managing authority has already allocated 2.5 billion. The beneficiaries of this money shall have a decision on the support issued by the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy (SVRK) and shall also have contracts with them. However, as soon as a contract for a project is concluded, it is necessary to apply for a call for tender, the contractor must be selected, the case must start to be implemented; and this will continue. And also projects that are projects of so-called soft content are years old, are certain funds for a project, for a programme is allocated for several years and is implemented after years. And I can give you the numbers. The statement was that this money is lying to us in Brussels. It doesn't lie down, we have it at our disposal, and the beneficiaries can use it. But they can use it when all the conditions are met and the work is done. And this is not the characteristic of Slovenia. In this perspective 2014-2020, the legal basis was already adopted in Brussels so late that no drawdown occurred in 2014, not only in Slovenia. In Slovenia it was the first pump in 2016. That's when we spent 120 million on cohesion funds. In 2017 – 214 million plus 63 million for financial instruments. And last year's 300 million. This year, 625 million are reserved in the budget for this purpose. It is estimated that spending will be at some level of 400 million. In fact, I was disturbed by the statement that we were returning. Yes, we have; we have returned liquidity. Why were we coming back? Because each country does not tell at the beginning of the year how much it estimates that it will spend certain cohesion funds in that year; and therefore receives an advance. And if he doesn't spend it all, then he's returning it; but that's liquidity, and that's why we didn't lose anything. And let me reassure you, even last year, there was panic in the country to lose EU funds because of rule n + 3, so that we will not spend what we should spend in that year. For this year we have certified enough expenditure for this year, so we have exceeded this amount this year, and in fact there is no such fear. I would therefore like to say that we do not believe in the Government that we will lose any funds from this perspective, regardless of where we are during this period 2014-2020, because these funds can be used by 2023. Maybe even in terms of content, even though that's not entirely the point. This perspective, which was programmed in 2013 for example, sets out what cohesion will be spent on, so the operational programme is prepared for content. And at that time it was stipulated that there were several more of these so - called soft contents. Soft content — whether we agree on it or not — is an awareness, a kind of prevention, perhaps not as familiar as what to say, sidewalks, cleaning appliances, or concrete, as it is sometimes called. The next statement when my ears hurt, and I know that I will definitely get back as a boomerang, is that our schools are falling apart in Slovenia. My son and I go all over Slovenia to basketball games and I must say that I am glad that we have beautiful sports halls all over Slovenia. And in Ljubljana we haven't had a gym in two years, and they've been walking around. I don't know where. Let's look here a little bit relative. The next statement is that the budget is suspended until 2021. No, Your Honor, the budget is not closed until 2021. We have a practice or legal basis to prepare two-year budgets, but there is a reason for this, which means that we will be re-drafting the budget 2021 next autumn; always in the year that is closer, there is greater certainty, there is greater clarity and easier to prepare a better budget. I'm sick of saying that poor people are the ones who come to examine Furs and have to pay taxes. Here I would like to say that according to theory, the tax system should be set up so that it has a wide base, low levels and as few exceptions as possible. As far as this has worked with our tax legislation, let us leave it aside because it is a matter of judgment. But what I'd like to say is that since we have the tax box, Furs has a better job, because he can monitor exactly how and what. And when the season of volcanoers comes and there are no accounts in this area, then they can go more focused on how and what. As far as Furs is concerned, I'm listening to these picket remarks that he's not doing well, that everything is wrong. I would like to say what I have already said yesterday that the tax debt has been declining in all years since the establishment of Furs, nominally decreasing, not at the expense of write-offs, but also at the expense of reducing the active debt. And if the debt is nominally reduced, while the revenue collected by Furs is growing, that in itself means that Furs' efficiency is increasing. In addition to the area of ZIPRS and the proposed amendments. The 140 million has already been difficult to adopt, i.e. the current regulation in ZIPRS, and it was not done under this assumption in the formulation of the state budget. What we want to say to you when we say that the state budget has 95% more or less fixed obligations. Let me tell you very plastic: of these good 10 billion goes 3.2 billion for wages, this is a legal obligation, we have no room for manoeuvre; then for transfers to individuals and households – a billion 200 billion 300, people have decisions, there are no rights, there is no room for manoeuvre; ZPIZ, a pension allowance, so that it can pay all the obligations it has to pensioners, there is about a billion, there is no room for manoeuvre here; interest – bad 800 million, next year 152 million. These are our obligations to the lenders we have to pay. Payment to the EU – 500 million. If we are to draw on European cohesion and agricultural resources and centralised programmes, we must pay for this contribution. Then we have in the budget so-called dedicated revenue, which can only be earmarked for specific purposes. There's no manoeuvre space there, that's 350, 400 million. And at the final stage, the European funds that we have running through the budget are not those where we could look for reserves or could replace them, because, as you know very well, European funds are also earmarked for precisely defined purposes. And this is what we're talking about when we're talking about that 95% of the budget is fixed somewhere. Your Honor, I don't know the secretary of state who would find this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Thank you, Secretary of State, for having made such an effort to respond on European funds, but there we have a secretary of state from this area – Dr. Ribič. And I think we could hear something out of her mouth today, too, to say, because it really is a European asset issue. I don't know who's cheating. Slovenia has 3 billion €67 million of European funds available for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in 2014-2020, plus an additional €800 million from the domestic budget. Dear Secretary of State, does this information hold or does it not? Then you'll tell me. By the end of June, a good 800 million and 26% of the EU's available work had been used, or generally a poor billion. Slovenia has sent a total of EUR 760 million of applications for reimbursement to the Slovenian budget to the European Commission since January 2014, a quarter of everything available. This is a report on the drawing-up of European funds. At that time he was also led by Iztok Purič, today we are without a minister or we have a deputy minister. Fresh data on reimbursements from the Brussels budget to the Slovenian budget, led by the European Commission, show that Slovenia has received 27.6% of the funds paid back, and we are 19th among the members of the European Union. Is he gonna hold that information or not? We could be on the first if we were successful. Estonia comes first, but it has absorbed 43% of these funds. Why can Estonia, why can't we? There must be someone there who's more capable than he is here. What else do you want me to do? What was the biggest threat to Slovenia? While Slovenia was warned by the European Commission that, due to the poor functioning of the e-MA system, it could be temporarily suspended from the European budget to the Slovenian budget. We're facing a temporary halt. You've been working on this information system for four years. That's the key problem. Dear Secretary of State, I expect an answer from you whether they hold these statements or not. I will continue to say that 3 billion euro is on the ground in Brussels.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The replica has Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u48	Dear Secretary of State, schools, elementary schools, facilities are falling apart. Although sometimes with some kind of decomposition, the primary school as well as the system falls apart, but let's just leave it. If you don't believe me, I won't say everything is falling apart, I didn't say that, come to Hotič near Lithia, we'll be happy to see you, and go to the Hotič branch school, 121 years old, and you'll see whether it's falling apart or not. And the nursery of the Founder in Lithuania, which was built in some system more superficially, inappropriately, despite the good maintenance of the principal's assurances, is also needed a new one. There is also a need for a new kindergarten in Šmartnem near Lithium. Three buildings in two municipalities have 5 million funding for the construction of schools and kindergartens. That's sad. And once again, there are new schools, but they are built by congregations with their own budget, and sometimes you get some euro of state funds if you're lucky to be in some big city congregation. But in principle, certain facilities are old, they are bad, they need new constructions, they need renovations, they need to be renovated, and so they should be allocated a lot more resources, not 5 million for the whole country, I wanted to tell you so much. Once again, you will be invited to Hotič, where you will be able to see this facility for yourself, and you will think that you are in some kind of middle-aged prison, catacombs, or whatever cages I don't know, I can't say. Come and see for yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert can't get a replica because you haven't discussed it yet. Mr. Joseph Horvat has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dr. Bertonzel may be pleased to have such a secretary of state. However, I am interested in – coherent regional development, some movements. The government promised me that it would make a four-year incentive programme for borderline problems in the areas. Where is the money, and where is the money for the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions? As far as school is concerned, Comrade Doblekar has already made his point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much. How much energy do we devote to convincing whether we are a little less or less weak in the use of European money, instead of talking about the future financial perspective in the 2021 budget, because 2021 is the first year of the future financial perspective; and whether we are going to be just some kind of home for older people, some kind of kindergarten or school from this money, or maybe some piece of road or railway. The numbers are ruthless, we all know that. The distinguished Secretary of State, at the end of 2011, the fifth year of the previous perspective, Slovenia was better than the average of the European Union. The consumption rate was 37%, with an average of 33.4 at the time. At the end of 2018, the fifth year of the current perspective, Slovenia is weaker than the average of the European Union. Consumption is 24.2; the European Union average is 37.3. It is true, however, that Europe is worse than it was before, because this perspective began later, but why should we always put ourselves in line among the worst if we have the best budget in the world, as you say or as you said yesterday. With regard to the efficiency of Furs, yes, it is, it is very effective for those who are a few days late to pay contributions from the lowest dose base. Very effective. And they're late because they don't have any income, and I said, for example, that there's so many tires to change, or so many heads to wash, that these incomes will come. And it's very poor in those who haven't paid these contributions in months, months, months, years. How else can one Jankovic family collect a tax debt not for a few hundred thousand, but for a few million euros?Oh, my God! Or, say, a state carrier who hasn't paid contributions for months and years?Oh, my God! I have said about this that the vats must be equally valid for all and that the efficiency, including Fursa, should be measured for those who are the real problem; not for all these small poor people who meet their obligations better than all the great ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Nevenka Ribič, State Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u54	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I really need to respond to the figures that have been on the drawing-up of European cohesion funds. First of all, I would like to say that in drawing on European cohesion funds, all too often is only the fourth phase of drawing. You are talking about when it comes to the reimbursement of funds from the European Union budget. Indeed, from the budget of the European Union until today, that is, from 1 January 2014 to today, 812 million have been reimbursed. But you forget that using European funds is a complex process, a multi-phase process. The SVRK, in its role as managing authority, has issued €2 billion of support decisions to date. Second phase, confirmed operations – 2 billion 30 million. What does that mean? This means that co-financing contracts have been concluded with the intermediate bodies. That's not what you're talking about. It is only that fourth stage – the money coming from the European Union budget. Phase three, state budget payments. It is true, 872 million for projects implemented, but you must know that payments from the state budget only occur when payments are made. However, claims for payments may be made when projects are actually implemented. And that's where most of the problems come in. No projects have been implemented. And if the projects are not implemented, we cannot apply for payment to the European Commission. Why have projects not been carried out? Because in practice, there are no building permits and divergent consensus that those who want to carry out the projects need. The SVRP, in its role as managing authority, is constantly trying to help beneficiaries. We help them in this way to explain, say the e-MA information system has been a problem in the past, but we are at a stage where I can say that the e-MA information system is no longer one to block European funds. On 6 September, the Budget Supervisory Office sent to Brussels information on the fact that, on the basis of a review of the e-MA information system, it is such that it provides all the necessary information to draw on European funds. The e-MA information system does not block the use of European funds. It is true that the supervisory authority in the European Union will have the final word in this regard, and we are waiting for that in fact; but all prospects suggest that we will get a rating of 2, which guarantees that our system works. Beneficiaries who, for example, have problems with the use of the information system alone, can always turn to the management body. We help them use this system, we educate intermediate bodies. The instructions for use always go in the direction of being more user-friendly. The SVRK in the role of the managing authority is aware of the importance of European funds, 3 billion 67 million is available and we have the opportunity to use it by 2023. That says we're four years old. This is not an excuse that I would now like to tell you that we still have time available; but I want to say that the projects in the field are actually those that are somehow too small. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said that in the 2019 budget, the rights of use for the purpose of using European funds are 625 million. To this day, 215 million have been used. This difference has not yet been addressed and the ministries have given this information in the role of intermediary bodies, but the SVRK as the managing authority in some way has no influence. State secretaries every quarter of the year before the quarterly report, this has now been introduced, let's see where those problems are. I believe that we will also help by putting pressure on those final project operators who need to report on why some projects are not being implemented according to plan, as planned, so that they will also feel that the managing authority is also putting pressure on them in this direction. We are not the only one to be responsible for the fact that European funds do not go as well as we would like. It's just the pumping started late. It was not until the end of 2016 that the first draw took place. And there's something else I'd like to say. Payments, 812 million, by the end of the year, that's from 1. 1. 2014 to 31. 12. 2018, we pumped 16%. In this one year to this day, we have reached 26.4%. In one year, great progress has been made. We can't say he wasn't. On 6 December 2018, Slovenia threatened to lose € 183 million of European funds. On 21 December, we confirmed, until the European budget, the last 52 million and thus prevented the loss of this money. In this one year, the SVRK has done a lot of work in the role of the managing authority, I think. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you. Dear Secretary of State Dr. Ribič, you must not believe this; you must be sure of this. You have announced for the 2020 draft budget a little more than one billion inflows from European funds. For 2021, however, you announced 850 million euro inflows from European funds. Now you're saying we have until 2023. Now decide whether you will bring these funds in 2023 or then this budget is not coherent and misleading. For 2020, you have announced European funds for 1 billion 71 million. For 2021, which is now under consideration, 850 million. You are already talking – Ah, 2023, because we have time. We're in 19th place. However, I agree with colleague Jožet Horvat, what he said about the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. And if you were to sit on cohesion, more resources would be spent, that's all. Now, I'm curious here, Your Honorable Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, whether that's true right now. Where are we taking this thing with European funds? In 2023, what did the secretary of state just say? Will we really bring this into the Slovenian budget, as you announced for 2020 1 billion 71 and for 2021 850 million? Now I am even more concerned here; that we will have to work the rebalance immediately and that today this is more so, only so much so that you have budgeted together, numbers something written in mind. We are 19th in place after the success of drawing on European funds. I will not repeat these numbers again, but now, according to the announcement by the Secretary of State – don't worry, we will draw these funds, we have until 2023. But you have announced in the budget that we are considering today for almost 2 billion funds by 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. First, he's got a replica of Tinker Bell. Then she gets the word "secretary of state" mag. Sasha Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u58	What has been said — too few projects on the ground and the problem are building permits — we can really worry. Yeah, who's taking care of the building permit procedures?Oh, my God! Is it not the country that, because of the unfortunate mechanisms it has, prevents projects from going on normally? I was just talking to someone from the Koper Congregation today, and they intend to start building in the middle of the year 270 nonprofit apartments and 30 supplied apartments. For more than six months, they waited for the Ministry's response that there was no need to obtain water consent. Not that you have to give it something, but on the information that you don't need it, you've had to wait more than six months. And don't talk about who's here who's been jumping in development. Or those who work hard in the field, the congregations and all others who prepare projects; whether the problem is bureaucracy, which is too numerous and does not do its work as it should. And legislation that doesn't change to allow normal investment processes is a problem. The second problem, which has been seen worse from what has been said, is that we do not even know what our priorities are for the next financial perspective. We should know today about 80%, 90% of how this money will be spent by the end of 2027, and according to how we have prepared projects that are of national importance, hospitals, homes for older people, non-profit apartments, urban renewals, infrastructure, to locate our programmes for the future. That would be the right way. Not that some bureaucracy has any idea what it would be wise to do, some futuristic stories, and then on that basis you're making calls and looking for who's going to do it. And so now we have over 4,000 ongoing projects in the process – yes, we normally have problems or that you have them. But you're making them. Not you personally, not your job, but the absence of government policy. The government should be the one to have today, given that we are talking about the budget for 2021, which is the first year of the next financial perspective, a very clear substantive list of priorities that will be made available from this money, which will be available again about as much as in the current year, slightly over 3 billion, with priority funding. That would be the right way. Then we wouldn't be wondering about any delays, money would be spent well and in the right time frame.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Member Boris Doblekar has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, since I don't want to be hurt or anything, I just want to help you. And I also think we're alerting everyone completely justified. Also, all the debates so far, which have been both on the committees and here, are just help or some suggestions on how to improve things, to move forward. I would only replicate in this part when you said that the government's service for development and cohesion was trying to help the beneficiaries. He's trying to help the beneficiaries. I'd be much more pleased to hear you once here say you're helping the beneficiaries than you are trying to help. Beneficiaries face many bureaucratic problems. The problem is that these people are too many in the offices, too closed between the four walls, those who wouldn't try, but had to help the beneficiaries get European funds. There are too many of them in the offices, there are too many red tape, there are too many of them, but not only by your employees, your ministry, Sverk, but also by the other ministries, where these permits are drawn and so on, to God's mercy. You've had problems with the information system, as you said, and somehow you've solved it, and we've warned you about it all the time. You have problems with the resignations of ministers, it is said, the problem is the management of this so important government service for development and cohesion. And as my colleague has just told me to say, there is some hope that it will only be better to draw on European funds, now that Austria has taken over the leadership of our ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Sasha Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me now explain this confusion – if it is confusion – about EU funds. Dear Mr Pogačnik, in the budgets 2020 and 2021, EU funds are planned not only from cohesion policy, but a colleague spoke about European cohesion policy funds because Sverk is the managing authority for this part of European funds. What you are looking at in the budgets 2020 and 2021, however, are realistic plans for how much this will draw on, because there is also agricultural policy, which is the order of 300 million at the annual level, and because there are also centralised programmes. This is how we plan European funds in real terms and in line with INOP, as I have already said, this is an operational programme implementation plan. The operational programme implementation plan has already been set up to be used by 2023. That's how things work out here. The idea and desire of Sverka was that the use of resources would not be the same as it was in the previous perspective, it seems at first a little at the end of everything. You know that we had in 2014 and 2015, which were exceptional investment years, because we then spent all the European money from the previous perspective that was available to us. So the wish was that this perspective wouldn't happen like that, but that it would be more in the middle, but things don't always happen the way they planned in life. I hope this mess is no longer a mess. With regard to these EU funds, what I have already said many times is essentially the same on the income and expenditure side. For us, these are some kind of transmutative means, when we consume them, then we get them from Brussels. That is to say, if they are not used in one year, there is no revenue, but from the point of view of the state budget, this is neutral unless the EU works are used, then this Slovenian participation becomes unused. Mr Horvath asked about the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. That's right. When we were preparing the draft budgets 2020 and 2021, we came from a coalition agreement setting this limit to bring about extraordinary harmonisation in 2020 if GDP growth in 2019 is higher than 3%. As growth is estimated at less than this year, we did not plan resources for this purpose in the 2020 and 2021 budgets. But in the final stage, this is an uncertain fact. So even if any other amendment to this harmonisation is now adopted, this would mean in 2020, because it is about 5 million for one month. But I say that this is an uncertain fact that this moment is not, but this 5 million is based on the size of the budget, if this happens, in December 2020 can provide, while, as I mentioned earlier, in 2021 this is a significantly higher amount, and if this happens, it will already be known when the next budget is being prepared, so that we will settle it then. But you also asked about coherent regional development. It's not exactly my theme, but since this isn't the real colleagues here, they texted me like this. On the basis of the amendment to the Regional Endogenous Policy Regulation, they are preparing a new programme linking the various resources to ensure that resources are provided on a case-by-case basis, the amount will be determined by means of this new four-year programme, which is expected to be approved in the first half of the following year. MGRT is preparing this programme, the internal decision is already signed, the competent authorities will meet in the meeting shortly. So that's it. However, as to what you usually asked about the law of Pomur, I also have information that all these 33 million will be provided, as was the case with the law. So I get it from this point of view, it's going to be a hook. Then let me conclude here, what will happen to programming or what will happen in the next financial perspective, in the European cohesion policy 2021-2027. These discussions that we have here are, of course, an excellent indicator of what we need. If we didn't know – that is, I think the needs are clear. Once this is programmed – and this will be programmed in the following year, not at the level of Slovenia – but this is a process that will take place at European level – it is clear that the substantive objectives and priorities of the 2021-2027 period are already five. One is a smart Europe where innovation, digitisation, entrepreneurship will be provided. The objective of two is a greener and low-carbon Europe, it is said that money for energy, water, waste and climate change will be provided from this title. The third objective is a more integrated Europe. This is about both digital connectivity and mobility as well as TEN-T. The fourth objective is a more social Europe, it is said that resources for employment, education, social inclusion and health will go. The fifth objective is Europe, closer to the citizens. Here, however, are the integrated, sustainable investments and development led by local communities. I am sure that we will also meet in these five objectives in this country and that we will be able to address properly the needs that we are aware of and that you are also reminding us of in your deliberations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see your hands are up. I'm asking you to sign up. The first one gets the word Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you, President, for your word. Today in this House we are talking again, we are not talking, we are talking through each other, we are putting each other to nothing, we have no idea and so on, and there is probably no compromise here. We do not give an extension to make a deal in Parliament, even though we are here for these purposes. I don't have a problem with the existence of the truth anymore, I really don't have a problem. Albert Einstein already said there are as many truths as there are observers. Depending on our experience, depending on our interests, we all have our own forms. That is why a Parliament is made and why it is a democracy. I think the essence of democracy is to admit that there are more truths. And that's actually the most important right in democracy. Albert Camus made this very clear: “As a Democrat, I am aware that no one has the truth but we share it, and because the truth is shared, only dialogue can lead to it.” Therefore, I think it is also quite appropriate for Winston Churchill to think that policy is about making compromises. Because there are different interests in society and some compromises need to be concluded, otherwise there is no way. But if we put ourselves on extremes, on cheerleading, I have a feeling today and yesterday I had a feeling and I have it in this House to talk to viewers, not to talk to each other. We're cheering, we're trying to tell the viewers that the other side has no idea, this side has no connection, you're teasing, and so on. And because it's meant to – one study was done in America, by the way. They asked two groups of fans who were watching the same game, one that cheered for one team, one after another. When their statements were drafted, this was computer-managed and so on, it was perfectly clear that they had seen two completely different games. It's completely different. And believe that for Green Dragons or Violes, when there is a derby between Olympia and Maribor, is something else, nothing can be said about who is better, and here also comes ugly things, to swear, to fights and to break. That's right. Because there was so much debate in this debate when it was more talked to viewers and where it was more about putting pressure on emotions and trying to convince the audience, I missed something wrong, and that's why I'm talking. In fact, talk now that we are adults – since 2014 we have grown up, when we repaired the banking system. There's still talk about the one who's been rehabilitating the banking system and the one that's been preparing it, and when the growth started, that's the one that's been doing bad work, it's got no idea. When we started paying back debts when we started reducing debts, I would still warn — in Parliament I had already shown this picture — about when the debt started to grow, and dynamically so. The total indebtedness of the population and businesses and financial organisations increased from 2004 to 2008 from 17 billion to 43 billion. This was followed, clearly, by the socialisation of these debts of the population and businesses and banks. And then the country took over, just like the rest of the world. But it's in a long process. America did this from today to tomorrow, where the president was changing at the time, but there they threw a thousand 700 billion into the banking system and fixed it immediately. America, I'm talking about the United States, but she hasn't had that kind of trouble. But we came to this rescue in 2014. So, we're talking about when we were in debt for recovery. As this recovery now shows, with the sale of banks, with DUTB, as much as it has recovered and as much assets, this hole will be covered and there will be something left. But who dug that hole? Whoever dug it up, we all forget when we talk about it. And the hole is that if I ask myself where the five billion went, I have a leaf here, the biggest hole is dug by Bell 1 Holding – you know where it belongs – the second was Vegrad, the third was T2, the fourth was Bell 2 Holding, and so on. We forget who was there, who was there, who was there, who was there, who was working. So there were these mistakes, I'd say quite simply, quite a few made. And when we finally recovered and when the banking system was being repaired, it is clear, because we are in a monetary economy, that the economy has moved back up. We are now in some favourable growth, in fact the largest in Europe, as far as I know, the only Ireland has a slightly smaller growth. There's something else I'd like to say. Sometimes when it comes to talking back and talking about where we are — when was the UKC set up, when were the hospitals placed, when were schools set up? We're all talking about the rot, the terrible system, but in that system, before Slovenia became independent, we were doing people specific things, and I'm saying we were doing good. We've been doing really well. Since the 1960s, we have had one of the highest economic growth, and productivity has increased, and our GDP has increased tremendously, including by 7% and 8%. So then it became huge, and that's what we inherited. It didn't happen that much, but we inherited it, and I think we managed it relatively poorly. We lost insurance companies, banks, those third ones, we had one bank that meant something, the Ljubljanska banka, not the NLB, in this space, we lost Istrabenz there, like Cimos, hotels, one bunch of things went into other hands. Why? Because we started with this property and all, we put it in the hands of the speculators, I'll say. And those speculators got us there. Speculation was the greatest at the time of tycoonisation and at the time of this debt, when we went to 43 billion. And then it had to be repaired. Unfortunately, we didn't get into this recovery right away, and we're in trouble. But we are now jamming, saying how that government, the third government – now we are in this situation, we have positive growth, we are paying off debts, we are being reduced, we are not paying off billions and a half for interest, but only 700 million more this year, in the second year we will give even less, so that it goes into a few things. Where we will give the money, how we will give it, there are clearly different interests in this regard. It can't be different, there are different interests because we are different, and so are the customers. But if we want to talk, coordinate, I think we should work harder on the compromise and not talk to the camera, but to each other, meet again and again, sit back and talk. You know me, I talk to everyone, I don't have a problem with it, and I also let someone think otherwise. But for that reason, I'm not telling him that he's a fool, that he's a pig as used in this House. What do we say to people, our viewers? That's why we have such a low rating. So I'd say let's be a little more friendly with each other, and we'll come to some kind of arrangement. Not that we're talking, as I said yesterday, I used the words of Harry Frankfurt, "bullshit", again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The replica has a Blackbell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u66	My friend Vojko Starović told A, but he didn't tell B. When he spoke about the fact that the total debt in 2004 continued to grow the most in the last 20 years, he forgot to say who was responsible for the increase in that debt and the responsibility for the business population. We know who is responsible, the Bank of Slovenia – not any government. Banka Slovenije did not play a role as regulator at the time, which she apparently wants to play in these times, unfortunately only in the population segment. No government has anything to do with it. However, government debt or public debt increased, as I said before, in 2004 it was around €7 billion; by the end of 2008, it increased by €1 billion, i.e. to $8 billion; then the Pahor government arrived; it increased by the end of 2011 – to how much? – to 25 billion, then came your government, your President Alenka Bratušek, but it grew to over 30 billion euros in a good year. That's it. These are the numbers that matter. However, that the regulator of Banka Slovenije has not played a role, we have already said several times. But as you can see, the government has no influence. Although, as we're listening to your president, I'd like that, to the detriment of the people, as it appears. The second issue, when you mentioned tycunization and those who actually wanted to cover these companies because of Banka Slovenije's loose policy in 2004-2008, is former comrades, it's old boys, it's your former colleagues, Mr Starović. Some did, some didn't. You forgot to mention one of your great comrades, Mr. Rigelnik. For a while he was president of the National Assembly. He hanged from Factor Bank and all ACH companies credits to people, taxpayers, and now we read that he was one of the richest Slovenians because he managed to keep the jewel of Adria Mobil, which was later sold to the French and so on, shooting at your own knee. [[…]] Comrades you have takunized this Slovenia and your comrades have caused Slovenia today not to be at the point where it should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to tell my colleague Starovic that we are here to discuss, and that is why we are a Parliament. And not because the cameras are on. The fact that they are cameras is only an added value that citizens and citizens know in what way and how we represent their interests. Those who are a little more ashamed of the way these interests represent, probably having cameras on, and those who are behind their words during and after the campaign probably have no problem with it. Now to budget 2021. If we look at it in any way, it's very similar to 2020. But there are some things that are in their own eyes that point to what we have already said about the 2020 budget yesterday – that are not enough done for citizens, and that they will work successfully and effectively in this country. Yesterday, I mentioned how much funding is involved in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will spend 24 million in the budget in 2020. Twenty-four million. I said it's as much as it's gonna eat and drink, because we're going to do the same thing, even more, to protocol. In 2021, we allocate only 17 million more for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is said that a strong fall for the development of that part of the Slovenian economy, which is still very important. Because Slovenia is based on small and medium-sized enterprises. These are, in a way, those that allow the budget to be charged. But on the other hand, when it comes to development, when it comes to the success of these companies, we forget about them. And this is a picture of the future of Slovenia. Thus, we will give for entrepreneurship in 2021 even less than in 2020. On the other hand, in 2021 you will devote almost 13 million to support the government's activities. This will be around 6 million in 2020 and 13 million in 2021. This is more than once an increase in funds. And I seriously wonder what this government is doing, this government service is doing to need such a leap of funds in one year. And again, when you look where he's going, the most money goes to protocol, the most it'll eat and drink. If this were a job that might be an extra help in drawing European funds, one would look at it through their fingers and say, I hope that the pumping will be better. But this is only about the government's operation. And these are the things that are problematic. Next. With a record budget, even hearing that this is the best budget in Europe or in the world – now I do not know where – I am seriously asking myself how we will not be able to create such conditions and such an environment for the development and successful integration of our own citizens into the labour market in 2021, so that more resources are needed for social policy than in 2021. I don't understand that. I hoped that the funds for various social assistance would continue to decrease, but not that this area would need even more funding than in 2020. You know, this is a reflection of the budget, because this purpose of the budget already points to the direction Slovenia is going. I think that this particular area should have a fall in resources, social assistance for citizens and citizens. Not that you wouldn't give it to them, but because you won't need it anymore. I already said yesterday that I am worried that the Government does not have the basic data, how many state-owned enterprises still pay the minimum wage or have the estimated jobs below the minimum wage. You know, all of this then also affects some social policy. But we just don't have that, and these are the basic indicators for me to show how the state controls these companies. I also have to stop at health policy. That's a lot of money for health care. But sometimes – and we stress this several times – it feels like it's a shovel that takes money and throws it out the window, because things just don't work out systematically. Last time I looked at how many long-term hospitals Slovenia had. The data is really worrying. But you know, on the other hand, I'm curious about the correlation between long-term sick and waiting species. Soon you will see how important it is and how visible it is, and how even worse it feels for citizens and citizens. One injury takes someone just to get basic tests, months, respectable. Unless he's going to the supermarket and he's looking for help. Is this your so-called free health care? But that's what's going on. People are at home after half a year and more just because they don't have basic diagnostics yet, because that's how long it's been for specific examinations. Now I'm going to tell you a personal story. I never intended to tell her, but today I will, so you can see what's going on. In my immediate family, the person who, thank God, came to his pension. She spent all her time paying in cash, in fact, the hospital stock did not even need what was good at work, but she paid basic health insurance, additional health insurance all the time. Now he's retired and at some medical examination he went to do, it turns out he's having an aneurysm. He was rushed to the hospital with an ambulance. At the hospital they looked at him and said, "Well, it's not that bad, we'll give you a date for further examinations." Then he asked: “How can I go home?” “This is your business now.” On our noses, we made a hundred kilometers to take the person and take her home. Then he did all the checks and got the first date of the operation after, I don't know, more than a month. He came into surgery, they're already preparing him and they say, "Oops, you won't have an operation today, we've decided on another type of operation, come by again in a month." The Lord went home again, disappointed, of course, partly frightened, because those who know what an aneurysm is, you know, it's a time bomb in the body. He went home and waited calmly for another term of surgery he was given. He went to this surgery, came in and said, "You won't be operated, we don't have beds today," and he went back home. Now he's got another date, and we're going to see if this operation is going to happen. It's our health system. If we show them, him and the like, these numbers, they'll grab their heads, and they'll say, "Where does this money go?!" And I'm seriously wondering where that money's going. I'm gonna touch education because it's always a pain in my ass. I am glad that the Secretary of State had answered the questions before, but there was one huge contribution that was not needed, and this is that our schools are arranged after Slovenia because she sees this because she is going to competitions with her son. Of course, it makes sense that you go to competitions where conditions are arranged and where there are opportunities for a competition. But there are many schools, branch schools that have no basis for their activities. And when I mentioned this at the rebalancing of the 2019 budget, they made it clear that there are no calls. The Ministry has promised invitations to tender and there are no such invitations to tender. But there are no such calls. These schools, you know, have to get along. Branch schools, however, are important. They are also important for the development of periphery, including children who do not live in cities, but some schools have to deal with whether the kitchen is still suitable or not. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the Secretary of State on my behalf to accompany me to the periphery and we will look at these schools and see how big a difference there is and how many schools there are no basic options for action. When I look at the 2021 budget summary, the film I mentioned yesterday — some of it was very exciting — is a fact. It appears that it is going this way, and we can only say the first and second episodes of the film, and the script remains the same – black.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u70	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Today there was quite a discussion on the subject of debt, which the government had produced. I'm going to read it now because I think colleague Lenart has been very misleading. I will start in 2005, when the government took over Janez Janša's government, the debt was 7 billion 68 when the 2008 mandate ended, amounted to 8 billion 28. Only a little over half a billion were owed in the first term of the government of Janez Janša. Then he took over the government of Borut Pahor. He took it with 8.28 billion euros in debt, ending with 17.20 billion. Nine billion in debt, over the thumb. Then that one-year period of the second Janša government, the beginning of 17.20 billion debt, ended at 19.40. Then the government was taken over by Alenka Bratušek for 19.40 billion, ending it with 30 billion debts. That's 11 billion debt. Today, however, we are at about 32 billion euros. Mr Lenart says that at the time of the government, Janez Janša was the country's largest external debt. Dear Mr. Lenart, do you know who has an impact on the entire external debt? All credits from companies, residents, Miha, Samir, Nike, all shall be taken into account throughout the country's external debt. Can you imagine what would happen if, in the 2005-2008 term, either Dr. Bayuk or the Prime Minister Janez Janša or Mihu or Mojci said, and you cannot take the credit? This is explained by colleague Lenart and mixing pears with apples. At the moment, the state has committed itself and the debt of the state is problematic. My colleague Starović would like to ask when the country paid 1 and a half billion interest annually. I don't know, about one billion. We can't have 500 million over our thumb right now, so it sounds better. Yesterday we heard from the Finance Minister that we have the best budget in Europe. I would ask him if we really have the best budget in Europe, why do we have such waiting types in health care, why do we have 11,000 people at the door of the old people's home, why do we have so many young people without their own apartments, and why do we have, if we have the best budget in the European Union, an additional 300,000 people who cannot be credited at the bank? Three hundred thousand people. However, we have the best budget in Europe for the Minister of Finance. We have the best budget in Europe, but today there are two of the largest state-owned companies, Telekom and Petrol, without leadership or imperfect leadership.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you, President, for your word. Earlier, the Secretary of State had a bit of a rush on us, czech, in 95% of today's debates are repeated according to yesterday's. But, I'm sorry, because in 95% of the mistakes in the 2021 budget are also repeated. Is there anything completely different than the budget for 2021 for 2020? Is the budget for 2021 incidentally social? Is it developmental? Because we know for 2020 that it is not. For example, does the 2021 budget have sufficient resources for long-term care? We have heard that more than 11,000 elderly people are at the door of their home for the elderly, not to mention that 40,000 elderly people would need help at home, which, of course, such budgets, even though the most extensive budget in history, are not providing. Do we have those promised 10,000 non-profit apartments that have even been the subject of coalition commitments? Is that in sight? It's not. What are the resources in there? Today I am reading, boasting about some new housing law that is still under consideration – yes, of course, but when will this be realized? We can have super legislation, but if implementation is bad, if it's almost zero, what helps us all? People will still – although we have not done anything in housing policy for 25 years, but we should, by the constitution, find out in this chaos, in this market scene, they will have to land on market legality, which is murderous, especially for poorer layers or for young people. Are we really going to invest in the reconstruction of railways? No, we'd rather spread the Ljubljana bypass. What do we care about climate change, what do we care about carbon footprints, what do we really care about? What if the network of railways – just around Ljubljana – were to connect smaller surrounding cities with Ljubljana, which would even allow us to reach the airport, became the same as this expansion of the railway. Then what? Nothing. Nothing. Do we have anything more in this budget for student homes and scholarships? We don't have one. Do we have anything else for primary school programs? Not at all. Do we have anything more to do with scientific research, given that we are supposed to be development oriented? Not at all. For culture? Less than nothing, I guess. Maybe I should really focus more on housing policy. It doesn't matter what amendment they would give, whether they would give it for 2020 or 2021, whether they would give it or not, the amendments of those who are not in the coalition will obviously not go through, the thing is domain, the budget is practically adopted. Here, colleague Starović spoke instead of listening and being able to accept compromises – yes, who is not listening to us, who is unable to accept compromises? Those who are not part of the coalition are not heard and we will not see these compromises. Certainly not this year, not for the next two years in the budget. As I said, Slovenia has been completely without adequate housing policy for 25 years now, although the Constitution makes clear in Article 78 that the State must create opportunities for citizens to obtain adequate housing. But it's not really like that. Even more, even our Housing Fund is market-oriented and sells square meters of apartment after the fat 3,000 euros. So let's imagine this situation. That is why, of course, the housing problem today is largely solved by people, let us solve it in the open market. And not because we'd like it, but because we're simply forced into it. Our fascination with the market economy has therefore forced us to do so. But we forget that the market for this housing problem cannot solve it. The market, the market legality it swears on, is actually a catalyst for the problem, creating this problem. It doesn't help. At work is a real estate market with its greed, with its great appetites for profit, there are various lobbying, capital lobbying, lobbying capital elites, at work a military lobby with its demands and, of course, poor citizens and citizens of their lobbyists do not, so it is as it is. But despite the fact that all of this is happening in front of our eyes, politics remains unresponsive. The policy does not take action, so the policy does not allocate resources or to strengthen the social state, but even though here you have a broad profile of how this is a very social budget, not for development, which would allow people to get quality jobs, to come out of trouble and finally have an adequate income. Under such conditions, as I describe them, many of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are in fact poor, of whom there are as many as 268 thousand, and as many as 45 thousand children. So much when we talk about children, to whom all of you are also compassionate when it comes to talking about them, when it comes to writing this down and pouring it into numbers in the budget, that compassion is blown up somewhere. So we have young unemployed, retired, single mothers, disabled and so on, who are without perspective in this society. All these people are in severe social distress. This budget for the next two years, not only will it not save this social hardship, but the poorest employees, as we have seen recently, or those poor people who are unemployed, who currently cannot get a proper job, would have fallen for the extra work, so I would have taken them away, pushed them into even greater misery. If it's not a ruse. And what would you do that for? For the fights of 16 million coins, which would save the budget by doing so. This mega-Romanian budget, the largest budget of all time, would sink the poorest for change to the end. What can I say? One is politics, the other is talking about policies, and the third is the transfer of policies into practice. And what do they help us with? Okay, maybe we'll get a little better housing law, but when will this even be implemented, when will this happen, when will people have any of this? Certainly not in 2020 and 2021 with respect to the change written in it. I'm afraid with the fanfare of drilling machines drilling down there in the State Council, we're going to take this wonderful, best budget all the time, even the best in Europe, looks a lot. Of course, not with the help of the Left, but this time you will lean on the SNS – what then, just as it will be. Thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u74	Vice President, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will focus primarily on the average for the congregations. There is no increase in the budget for 2021 for averages for municipalities. Does this mean that these averages will remain at the same level as they will this year? For we must be aware that the law on the implementation of budgets and the budget are linked. Thus, we can adopt in the law on the implementation of the budget an increase, even though there are no funds available in the budget, and this means that we should take and put on average somewhere. And I seriously propose that for the next year, for the 2021 budget, you increase the amounts of the averages for the municipalities, so that we follow that law, which specifies exactly what the average amount should be. That's the first thing. The other thing is public spending. Let's not go blind, 4 billion 200 is paid to different state institutions, from institutions, funds, agencies, and I could count, to societies. We even have companies that are funding from the budget. For example, the birdwatch company has 22 employees. This is a serious precedent, but obviously these things are going well with us. Knowing that the majority of public services in Ljubljana, something also on the periphery, in short, all these public services are close to the average wage, wages are close to the average wages, while in the periphery in the industry wages are significantly worse, most employees work for the minimum wage, so here it will be necessary, I am sure, to rationalise the public administration, to make it more flexible. We have already heard today that if you want to get one building permit or if you want to change the spatial plan of the congregation, it takes time, believe me, from three to four years, because 37 consentors have to give a positive opinion on the spatial act. But do you know what the delay in the development of a congregation is that there will be a congregation of three, four years to decide and give their consent, because without this spatial plan, they cannot accept? I would also like to say that I agree that Furs is doing well. Furs is doing well. All the little ones who are liable to pay taxes are under Furs' influence and stick to it. I see the problem elsewhere: colleges, University of Ljubljana, supplements paid by professors. We had a chance to see this in the media, and I think they're paying off abnormal supplements, which are public funds. I want to know who's watching over this. I must say that there may be little problem with this country, too, that it is not controlled by how public funds are spent. I know what it's like in the congregations, it's the supervisory councils, it's controlled, you always have to tell what the funds are for, work in accordance with the legislation. At the state level, this giant machine can't handle it. No excesses and public funds are wasted uncontrolledly. I think that we need to start working on this and actually put in place some mechanisms, controls that will control where these funds flow. Otherwise, I agree that it is okay that we have such a high budget. I believe, of course, we're different, some people like it, some people don't like it, some others would like it, others would, but this is a democratic debate in which bipolarity is known, and here the criteria unfortunately set by the coalition are taken into account. The coalition is also responsible for this, it bears the maximum responsibility, and here I think this system is the real one. However, the fact that we could have another 10 billion at the end of this phase would still require something that is not in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Just a minute. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two members registered. Jani Ivanuša gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. A nice greeting to all present, especially the guests of the government outfit! Yesterday in the debate for 2020, I have already discussed it, so I would not like to repeat myself. With regard to the 2012 budget, I will only raise one question at the end. Yesterday, I asked the Secretary of State about the country's debt between 2020 and 2021 and about the averages – as my predecessors had already said – about the municipalities, about the rise in averages that happened on the parent's working body last week. I got the answer, the secretary of state said it well, but today I had another question. Now we have the Secretary of State here, and perhaps the answer would require him directly. About averages. On Friday, we adopted an amendment that breaks, in quotations, the budget, in a way, because on the one hand we have a budget and on the one hand we have ZIPRS, the real law on the implementation of the budget. It's a misunderstanding. I'll ask you that. For me, this is very important so that I can then decide on the vote. Is the amendment proposed by the opposition SDS on Friday inconsistent with the fiscal rule? Does the adoption of this amendment then result in the unconstitutionality of the budget or ZIPRS? Here is a very important answer, or question, that is the dilemma that has arisen, whether it has been adopted in disharmony, or whether the fiscal rule has not been followed. I believe that the SDS party has good financial experts and I have little or no concerns about whether this has been taken into account. As far as the rest of the budget is concerned, I would like to draw on European funds. We know that we have problems here, we hear about them, but we still have problems within our own system, because, say, in the agriculture ministry, the European funds are in charge of the Agricultural Markets Agency, some ministries have direct funding, but we are lagging behind. I hear we have a lot of projects at our end that are closed, but they're waiting for the country's money to pay them back. Our public institutions or other projects cannot withstand this waiting period, which is not written anywhere in the law, when these funds return to projects or to those who run them. We also hear that we will have a foreign citizen as a new minister, which is not even in my head, whether this is even possible with us. If we're going to have Austria as Minister of Cohesion, then we're going to bring in Kurz to replace Charz, which is it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I must say that it is amazing that in a state like our society, and in the situation as it is, we hear the praises of budgets, we hear how oh and even live in Slovenia, how we should not be concerned that our citizens and citizens even – I have heard debates – live in abundance. Of course, those who discussed it did not say that it was a narrow group of privileged people and thieves who were stealing from this country. And then you have to raise taxes, that higher taxes are a guarantee that society is developing well, that the economy is happy to have their taxes increased – that's what I've been listening to, such a stupid debate here in Parliament, really stupid – and so on and so forth. That's amazing. I heard what the finance minister said – that this is the best budget in Europe. I have also listened, as I have already said, to the praise that the budgets for 2020 and 2021 provide prosperity – I do not know what prosperity – to all citizens and citizens and so on. I must say that's exactly why I'm very sad and disappointed. All these praises are neither appropriate nor fair under the circumstances. Now I'm gonna tell you why. I ask you, Your Honor, those who have prepared the budget, where you have provided funds for the long-term care law. Why did the government not bring this law into the National Assembly to be adopted? We have budgets for 2020 and 2021, two budgets, the largest budgets in history, so you claim, and on the other hand we do not have a law on long-term care or on tables, let alone that we can talk about knowing which direction this is going. If we're saying that there's such a thing as oh and even prosperity in our society, in our country, this problem should have been solved a long time ago. And the means to build a home for the elderly and so on, I won't mention it. We have 11,000 people waiting in line to solve this problem, because neither parents nor children know how to solve problems when they are in such a troubled situation because they cannot help themselves. Parents are at work, children with no income leave this country and go abroad, highly educated personnel and so on. We say that we have such a phenomenal budget for 2020 and 2021 and we have not solved it. This is not seen in the budget for 2020 or in the budget for 2021. How are we going to save these 11,000 people who are waiting? And I think there's still a lot more. And now this country is saying that the country is functioning oh and at all, and on the other hand, we have to pay the children and save their parents in homes for the elderly. I'm one of them, but I'm proud to help my mom. I'm proud of that. But it is a disgrace to the state to boast of such surpluses. That's embarrassing. This is where politics should come together. I always say that there is no problem here, you have the full support of the Slovenian Democratic Party, just bring something to the table, do something for it. And don't say we're doing great if, on the other hand, 11,000 people are waiting for us to enter a nursing home or any other form. None of that. Second thing. What about the elimination of waiting lines in health care? Why is there no money to solve this problem and not to keep people waiting for what, 300 days, or even three years for some sort of review? Just talking, a lot of talking to everyone who's in the coalition, and nothing changes. The waiting species are increasing, not shrinking. What you're using in here is some data that doesn't hold, reality is completely different. I've been talking to a lot of people lately who warn me about this. They say: “Marian, we listen to this debate in the National Assembly. What are you all crazy about? Are you all crazy? Why are you lying, why are you deceiving, why are you saying one thing and in fact the situation is completely different?" These are important issues that still have a bearing on the budget for 2020 and 2021, and here you are none of you. Third thing. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many poor pensioners we have in our society? And then you boast here that you will raise your pension for six euros after the new year. Yeah, look at the records, read what it says. Now you're fighting each other. Now you are arguing with each other whether everyone will get six euros in the same way or whether those pensioners who have 5,000 euros in pension will get a 1% increase. Desus and I don't even know which client you're negotiating with here right now. That's embarrassing. That's sad. That's what we should fix right now. For a lot of things, a lot of studies, a lot of things, what you're talking about, you're spending hundreds of millions not to talk about corruption in health and so on! You didn't do anything! Everything continues to run as it ran on a steady track. If that money were, we could agree, without any problem, on a one-time rise in the lowest pensions of those who have up to €800 in retirement there, and say, look, we know that you live in poverty — not on the threshold of poverty, poverty, pure poverty, the 300, 400, 500, and so on. These would be the right solutions that should be covered in these two budgets. These would be the right solutions. To first save those who can't live. First. This is what we all owe to sitting here together, and we don't have to share anything with any political party. No Member and Member who has been elected to the National Assembly can afford not to stand behind those words that I have said — to help the weak first. But none of that. The great words of Mr Sharpe, who comes to the National Assembly, are made out of a fool of us. When they answer questions — I almost vomited before — I had to get out. I had to leave the National Assembly! He speaks complete nebulosis, tries to mislead the Slovenian people, that they will continue to believe that he is – because they probably believe that he is a comedian, that is what they believe him. You don't hear any more of him, every thing turns into a comedy, instead of answering questions of quality and argument. Direct jesting from a poor nation. It's a real direct joke. Let's move on. We have between 300 and 400 thousand socially endangered people on the verge of survival. What's wrong with this group of people? What did you do for them? Do you think you saved them by raising social assistance? Are you still thinking in this direction that social assistance is the one who saves the vital interests of a family or an individual? But we are always trying to prove to you that the state has to ensure that the economy can develop properly, and then the economy can also pay adequate wages so that people can live on wages, not on social transfers! We, because obviously this government is not thinking normally, logically, and, I don't know what else to say without every healthy farm of intelligence, we have done that we now have 91,000 people at social work centres or employment institutions, while I don't know how many thousands of people are missing so that the economy can function normally! It's just that there's really some things out here that you can't understand anymore. Are we the ones who are talking about a country that is our concern for people and who understand the plight of people, the plight of those individuals, those poor 400,000 people who live on the threshold of poverty, those half of the pensioners, or two thirds of the pensioners who live below the poverty threshold, and so on, and so forth, and you, as if they are not?Oh, my God! And then, yesterday, really, I listened, I almost threw up, well. That someone's saying that by raising taxes it's possible to provide prosperity, I mean, that's crazy. That's crazy. It's really crazy and unreasonable. Such Members have nothing to look for here because they are nebulos, these are things that are not acceptable. So they don't live in reality, they don't listen. And what I am saying now has nothing to do with the political affiliation of any party, none, but the basic task of a member of the National Assembly should be – and I think – because I am sticking to it – to try to find solutions for all groups in this society, but one is a priority. A government that wants to function well needs to know how to set priorities properly. And it happens to us in this coalition and to this government that the priorities of the study are, I don't know what kind of crap you make up to make up to make money out of ministries for 100 million. I will not start to list because I can start with you, I will make a list of this next time I apply to the debate where the money goes – for studies, for crap, for connections, for some NGOs there, so that some individuals can earn by no means know what, 20,000 euros. I'll give you one hint, the Ministry of Environment and Space – do you know the story? I hope I don't have to repeat it, from A to Z, and so on. I would ask you, those who drive through Styria, from Prekmur and from Lendava to Ljubljana – when do we get a third belt or a fourth belt or a third and a fourth belt? I drive every day. Two hours from Sweet Top to Ljubljana and two hours ago, I spend four hours a day just driving! Ask the people who go from there every day, not to say that they continue their journey to Koper. People are getting mixed up. People are getting mixed up! They're being objectively distracted. You say you have such an oh and even a special budget and there is no spirit and no hearing. Every ten meters, trucks outrun each other! Every 10 meters. My fellow Members and Members, including the coalitions, I think we have the same problems in this society. We do not only have them in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not only recognize them in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am sure that all of you who are on this road recognize these problems. How can you vote for a budget where these things are not taken into account? You, as coalition Members, have the power to influence this because you have set up a government, because the government must do what you say, not what the government says! It makes proposals, the coalition supports proposals and the coalition takes key decisions in our society. And look, I'm going to round myself up at the average now. All the parties on the committee unanimously supported the amendment, and at this point, I do not want anyone to say that I want to act politically, regardless of who submitted it, all the parties supported it to increase the average in both years, it is 2020 and 2021. And what happens? The government and behind the uncles in the background are pushing the Prime Minister nicely – he is not the Prime Minister of the Government, he is a comedian to me, not the President of the Government. And they say to the uncle, "Listen, buddy, we didn't make you president of the government a joke. Now we're gonna have to listen. It's nice to listen to us. You tell your fellow Members not to think of going through this amendment. In order not to think of it, we need this money elsewhere.” So that teams of thieves can empty individual sub-systems in this society, in health, in social, in the military, and that I will not be listed further. But I'm talking about privileged groups, criminal and criminal associations. And now, in the end, the coalition is shitting itself - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] It's not funny, it's real, so please, that and now they're going to table an amendment to the amendment and they're going to cancel this amendment that everyone's supported together. [[…]] Because one Mr. Bertonzel said, see if this amendment goes through, and I'm probably not going to be a finance minister anymore. Well, don't be silly. Don't joke. Are we in this country normal? The entire coalition, together with the opposition, decides that one amendment will go through to help develop, to invest in investment – and what does it matter, who is the best investor? The municipalities. Far away, the best investor. For example, the Municipality of Šentilj, if this amendment is not adopted, will lose about €350,000 in the following year of the investment money that could be invested and will not be made in the Šentilj municipality. Because they can't do it if there's no money. This is supported by this coalition that scares every little thing when a gentleman comes in with a stick and just says, "You, a punk who's the head of this mission, come here, if it's not okay, you get your ass kicked." And that's what happened. You've got all the members of the coalition all over your ass. What I'm saying is, no one's gonna get the wrong idea what I'm trying to say. Everybody. Why do I say that? Because simple people understand that. They don't have a problem, they understand. They also know what it means to see whether the congregation can develop qualitatively or not, whether the country is willing to help. What, though, are the congregations other than the extended deadline of the State? What else are they? Tell me. What else are they? But they operate significantly better with resources than the state and the ministries, where hundreds of millions are lost, and no one knows why, how, and how. You know, it's pretty close, but since all the structures are connected, nothing happens. Nobody gets hurt. Look at Jankovic, see 105 million or how many directors, a colleague of Jankovic. During what period was the law adopted? Alenke Bratusek. Yeah, it's all connected because that money should be in the budget, not in the bank accounts of thieves. What are you, funny or something?Oh, my God! We're talking state money, because we're not talking about some cowboy's money! We're talking state money. 100 million there, and Jankovic 50, and I don't know who everyone is. Pull this together and you'll see where we are! With this money, you could have made you know how many homes for the elderly, and today, 11 thousand people would not have waited in line and children would not have to pay! These are important questions. Many people don't like it, but unfortunately, I know that this has to be said very publicly, that once the Slovenes and Slovenians will wake up and say, look, we really have a lot of you. After so long of the rule of new faces, we have found that they are five thousand times worse than those who are proven political groups in this society that have proved themselves. I hope that Slovenians and Slovenians will know that one day. And also our citizens and citizens, because now in Shentyl three or four roads will not get, those who hardly have access to their own house. Because you cancelled your own will and your own decision. By making an amendment to the amendment and the averages will not rise in line with the decision of the committee which unanimously confirmed this, and you are virtually all political parties in it. A party that may not have been present on this committee, I apologize for not going to see in particular, but I think you were all because the decision was taken unanimously. This means that the coalition agreed with the opposition that this must be done and that the municipalities need money for investment. It's very simple to say, but that's the fact and the truth. This is our reality. So, honourable Members and Members, I hope that I have put forward some very concrete arguments that suggest that these two budgets are prepared so that certain certain structures will continue to enjoy their status, which has been established so far, and this is that those who already live in the extreme abundance of boats will not know what large yachts that have around hundreds of millions of dollars in our budget after all, will continue to live as small gods. In health care where waiting types are like that, everything will stay the way it is. Investments in health care, not to mention investments. The spread of clinical centers, not to mention new hospitals, nurses' salaries and so on and so forth. Not to mention lack. Go see how many people are missing in the entire healthcare system, how many nurses are missing, how many doctors are missing and so on. Scissors and canvas are in the hands of the coalition and the government. We can plead back as long as we want, but my dears, we don't talk about what happened because it's over. Under the circumstances, you have the full support of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the solutions that would be written on the skin to our citizens and citizens, and you do not have our support when it comes to the continued functioning of the lobby, thieves, uncles from behind as small gods in our society. This is a fundamental thing that needs to be clarified in this society so that we do not have first-class and second-class ones. The second-class is increasing, but the first-class does not care whether one pensioner will be able to buy a litre of milk, or one entrepreneur will be able to pay all that is needed, or whether the worker will have a higher net salary, because you are blocking it by not taking a step with employers to help them, reducing taxes, as far as possible, so that they can function freely, so that they can invest more so that they can work more, they can pay more net wages and so on and so on. And then one Member says that the country that raises taxes is great, and that this is proof that the country is economically strong and that the country works well. Shameful thinking or not knowing this subject well enough. I must say that such a draft budget cannot be supported, not by one or by the other, because it has usually shrunk for me, written in the interest of the privileged groups. This is shameful and unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Procedurally, Member Carla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u80	There's nothing I can do that I can't answer. About 20 minutes or more we listened — what can I say? - hate speech, literally. With that tone, I don't know, but you have a longer mile than some of us have just arrived, but be aware that people are watching this. [[…]] It seems to me that, at such a level, Mr Pojbič should be stopped or warned that all words and insults do not really need to be involved and spoken at this assembly. The topic of the discussion is budget 2021, and I think we should stick to that. I really can't get out of my skin, and I had to say it. I don't think it's right. I feel like I'm just a schmuck out there somewhere because I've been listening to this for 20 minutes or more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you, too. Otherwise, you haven't told us what your procedural proposal is, where the rules of procedure are broken. Madam Members, you are obliged to tell us where the rules of procedure have been violated and you can say your personal injuries in the debate. With regard to the debate, Comrade Pojbič did not depart from the discussions of all the other Members on this item of the agenda, nor did it with yesterday. Mr. Pashovich, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I propose that you provide Mr Pojbić with a record of the Committee on Finance, and above all the results of the vote, because I have been on this committee and have not been unanimously confirmed by the result. That's all I want, Mr. President, if you can arrange for him to get this information.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u83	Mr. Pashovich, there's no need. You have the opportunity to apply for a debate and you will comment on the vote there, you have the opportunity for replicas, for discussions, this is certainly not a matter of a procedural proposal. Anyone else want a debate? Secretary of State, Mrs. Jazbec, would you like to apply? Later. Good. Then I see there's still a desire to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I will say that I am disappointed with the draft budget, especially the fact that we Styria Members have come so badly together that something more is made of this budget in Styria. We have very satisfied coalition members from Styria, where we are always saying that the country needs to be developed evenly, and if there were no proposals by the Slovenian Democratic Party with amendments that proposed some means, that some of the infrastructures of Styria, including other necessary institutions, should be given some resources – in fact, they have all squeezed tails between their legs. And of course, the centralisation of the country continues in this direction. So in the future, I want a better voice to be heard by the Styrian Members, whether you are in the coalition or we are in the opposition, so that we do not continue the topic that the road to Ljubljana is still too narrow. Because if regionalisation were to be, if amendments were to be aimed at ensuring good jobs with added value for highly educated people in Styria, we would not have to drive so many to Ljubljana and change immediately on the road. Once again, I believe that in the future, even those who come from my end, you are in a coalition, mature and do not let yourself be so strongly voted in Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Message from Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u86	I will briefly stop at health care and investment or at what my colleagues have already said. 2 billion more in the budget and only 80 million in investments. As my colleague said, it is a shame that so many amendments in the field of infrastructure, roads and the coalition – especially those that these amendments touch – are voted against and centralised in this area, that the infrastructure is only being built in Ljubljana and that it is not being built, that the infrastructure does not give money for rural areas that the roads are literally falling apart. In our village, in our local community, in our congregation, we drive along the national road along the macadam. For the past 10 years of this left government, I will say – now I will use an ugly term, I apologize, the presidents – stretch from year to year, you will not believe, for a million and a half euros. A million and a half euros cannot be found for one stage of the ordinary road, which is a state-owned road, which is deadly, where accidents occur. For 10 years for a million and a half years, while there is no problem in the previous government to give 300 million to the government that now, I don't know what, they build sewers across the pipeline, they build new prisons, and so on, if I only mention these things. And it saddens me that these amendments proposed by Members who come from people for specific needs have been rejected, if we have decided so and so and what else you have to say. As far as health care is concerned. See, more and more money in the health department, more and more promises are being made – what in God’s name do citizens of these millions who are dedicated to health care have more? What? Nothing! Nothing, just an extension of the waiting period. Now you're laughing. The previous government is – we no longer counted how many millions there were, but I think it has already – already given about 100 million to reduce waiting periods. Intervention law, 136 million for payment to suppliers and pilot projects, both of which are different. Nothing! This government today speaks 10 million times again for waiting periods. And do you know what the highest quality in health care is for them when they shorten waiting periods? Listen to the secretary's speech yesterday. The first measure is “quality monitoring of waiting species”. Man down! For 10 million quality waiting species monitoring. We've put money in health care so much that I can get it out of my health care, and I'll give it to someone else, because there's no money in the health care. No, I'll say it again, ten years. Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead. [[…]] Long-term care. 20 April 2020 – again forecast – will be a meeting of the Health Committee, an extraordinary meeting, on 20 April, a long-term care law has been promised. Where is the money in the budget for long-term care? He's not here! He's not here. Nor will this law, because first of all you have no money, second of all there will be no law on health care and health insurance, which is a condition for you to be able to do so at all. And you're talking today -- so much so that yesterday's secretary didn't say -- about health reform, you're giving a lot of money, but nothing happens. Read the health newsletter of the last week, read the hospital reports: nurses' departures, lack of intensive personnel, internal clinics. Here you say “quality monitoring of waiting species” and I do not know how many millions for specializations that are not available. They call twice or three times because they're not here! Where's that money gonna go? 136 million payments in the previous government – there is no fire. As I say, now, once again, a health promotion, nothing of the sort, the minister works only for pianists, this government works only for pianists. The former government has brought in all kinds of laws, and these works are purely pianism, “we have a marriage”, “we will do it next month”, “we have everything prepared, in harmony with the coalition”. You ask the coalition, "we have no idea." Long-term care is said to be written, “we have no idea.” So, this money that is spent in health care — sadly. Next thing you know, how you're going to sort things out in the field of investment in primary school. Four million! The minister of primary education has 4 million — not for a single kindergarten. One day! And now the coalition says, "We invest in personnel, in children, in education." 4 million! There are 74 million in social services dedicated to research, pilot projects that we do not yet know what will be the result of these pilot projects, or what it is. Four million in that. There are 5 million on the building site or in this section. And the Prime Minister of the Government recently said in his reply to the parliamentary question: "We work in social services, we work in homes for the elderly, we have 5 million." Do you know how much that is? Not one roof at home for the elderly. One roof doesn't! Stop talking about investing in this infrastructure and investing in these areas. You're investing in research, analysis. The Ministry of Health said yesterday that they had re-engaged the WHO to do their analysis. Yeah, which one is it? Fifteen? To tell you that we have a lousy health system. No, we'll put it in research, for pilot projects at 74 million. That's what you put it into. That the country or Slovenia is warming up twice as fast. That's what the research was about. Are you going to have to do research on how to cool down twice as fast as the rest of the world? That's the kind of thing you explain. Don't paint people, no. And then, my colleague, I believe she's wrong, she's talking about billions, she's talking about a 10-billion-dollar budget, she's 200 billion for culture, and she's almost there. Yeah, it's been a late hour, and you just can't put it back in there again, and then people ask if we really give that many billions and then where the money goes. [[…]] Yeah, of course, with one of those. And the fact that we have free education. Let me know from the Ministry of Finance whether it is true that we have a free education in Slovenia. One Member's parents didn't even give the euro for schooling or paying the euro for her schooling? This is what you tell people – that education is free. Everyone pays taxes, health contributions, social contributions, for school, and in the end you still deny them their rights, they are not treated the same way, as decided by the Constitutional Court. Even those parents who have children in private schools pay taxes of 300,000 euros a year. They have free choice of education, yes, they do, but they do not have paid, as stated in the constitution – that public programmes are paid from the state budget – and they pay taxes. And all those who go to the doctor call them a year before hip surgery, spines, pay their contributions, my dears. You raise them in health care, and in the end, they have to pay in private if they want to live normally for a few more years. My view on this budget is that in health you spend money because it's not going to be any good, because you're explaining that you don't have money for long-term care, you don't have money for high school investments. In the municipality of Šentjur, the school is 100 years old, Ipavec founded it, there is not yet a gym in the school. It's not because you can't find that money, not even 300 grand to start with. Since they can't get to the gym because there's no money, the ministries have been saying since 2008, and now they want to put up a balloon like tennis for 300 000 euros. There's no money. There's no money for that. But these children, high school students, walk on the main state road, the traffic road of Šentjur-Rogaška, in a 2km distance gym. There's no money. That is why I simply cannot support this budget. I will say again that you are throwing money away in health care because from this reform that you and the Secretary of State explain, there will be nothing, in social life, in nursing homes, in long-term care – nothing but promises. A lot of research, no conclusions, no investments, nothing in terms of secondary education, gyms, sports infrastructure, could even mention that I am not talking about how you treat people on the periphery, especially in road infrastructure. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we are still working on this instead of dealing with quality of life differently. Still, people judge matters by the feet of asphalt, and apparently they will not be able to see them in our congregation for a few years. The adoption of the ZIPRS amendment is announced, i.e. the reduction of the averages, but this is not the topic now, but I cannot support it from this point of view as well. My voice is headed towards the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Member Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! One thing is for sure, and this is that the Republic of Slovenia has never had as much money in the budget as it has in these two years to come. It is also true that, since the Republic of Slovenia has so high budgets, its citizens and citizens have never had as little of these budgets as they will have now that these budgets are the largest. Of course, some of them have more, others have less of it, but the country that follows what the constitution says should invest money in projects where citizens and citizens have some of it, either indirectly or directly. Previously, a colleague of Violet's was talking about how our soldiers, I don't know what they're doing in Iraq, Afghanistan, how bombs are falling. I also watched the film she was watching, modern warfare is kind of an approximation of it, but it is not a fear that Slovenia would ever, not even with such budgets, have armed forces, where someone in one room would direct a drone to drop bombs on a target. We do not even have ammunition in the event of a war or armed conflict for more than three or four days. That's what they said a while ago at the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. And since you are full of mouths, how you invest in security, look at the numbers and look at the actual situation. You invest in security where it is necessary to supervise your own citizens and citizens, but you do not invest in security where it means protecting your own citizens and citizens. Instead of cooperating, as the law states, with various civil initiatives, where you can ensure the safety of citizens and citizens without a financial contribution, you obviously want to pursue these civil initiatives. There was talk about European funds. After the State Secretary has listed the numbers – 120 million, 214 million, 300 million, 400 million – we see that there is not even a billion euros of the good 3 billion waiting for us. And then he says there's a problem with the projects. Of course there's a problem with the projects. The problem is in projects, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not ready or able to organise some calls. The municipalities are interested in investment, they're interested in investment, they'd build, they'd rebuild and so on, but what's the problem? There is no European funding because there are no calls for proposals. It's a specific case. In the Municipality of Gorenje Vas - Poljane in the Poljanska valley we have an old Austro-Hungarian school. A while ago, we decided to build a day care center for older citizens here, such as a kindergarten for the elderly. So, you bring him in in the morning, then you come on your way from work to look for him. But since we have invested in the sports hall – €5 million in recent times – because of investments in other infrastructure, we cannot make this investment. However, we have €70 million unspent for the long-term care of the elderly. Thank God he's moving now, and as I'm aware, there will be a call, we can apply, I hope we get the money, and we'll invest. But what's the problem that these funds aren't being used and there's no investment? Because there is no invitation to tender because the Ministry of Education does not prepare an invitation to draw European funds from the funds to build sport infrastructure, and then the municipalities are satisfied with the fines, such as in the budgets for the next two years, where some €7 million will go into the construction of sports halls. You can't build two good sports halls for 7 million euros, and you can do one great thing — but I'm talking about rural areas, but you can't build one here in Ljubljana. We really built a top-of-the-line building, costing 5 million euros. I'm afraid you can't make two of those for that money. And when it comes to how it will be invested further in budgets, both in the one we discussed yesterday, as in what we are talking about today, for 2021, I do not see these things. We can talk about numbers here, colleague Lenart said that 12% of the budget is social – let me know where this money goes. We have been talking about how much we will spend on social welfare at a time of one of the highest economic growth we have since we have been independent of each other, at a time when we have the second lowest unemployment since we are independent. We have 60,000 less unemployed than during the crisis, but at the same time we are giving more money for social support. How is that possible? Will this money go for children’s allowances, or will it go to encourage more children, or will it go to young families? Although I think it is difficult for family policy to talk about social policy because family policy is not a social policy. It's family policy. This has to be separated. These are investments. We had in the pre-election programme that when we rent a loan, when we purchase a property, we will reduce the principal by 20% for each child born. See Hungary, see Poland — direct financial incentives for the birth of children, direct financial incentives for loans. Fifteen thousand or 20 thousand at the birth of a child in Hungary. Is there any of this in the budget when we talk about such a high social situation? These are investments that are not known for a short period of time, and this is certainly a long-term contribution. Also because of the problem of demographics. Secretary of State, is there a direct address in these numbers to the problem and a solution to the Slovenian demographic problem? One of the oldest countries, not in Europe, but in the world, the ninth oldest country in the world is Slovenia, with such investments that we make – let me know what investments we make in Slovenia at all. We've been talking about the second track for a while, but we can see how Glinszica and all the other things get complicated. Let me directly tell you what investments the country will make, despite the fact that at such figures only €81 million is more for investments. Health care is so much and so much, tell me where it will be invested, how it will be known in better health care, how it will be known in faster health care, in reducing waiting species. You can put whatever you want in the budget if there are no clear policies here, they're just numbers. The same is true of the fight against climate change. Look at how quickly the Secretary of State puts himself on a lie or proves to him that he's making it up. Yesterday he said there was as much snow on the Kredar as there hasn't been in the last, I don't know what, 70 or 80 years. Here, it immediately comes to be 12 or 13 centimeters less than it was a few years ago. Your video was circulating on social media when you said how much snow is on the Kredarica, and there was an immediate evidence that you were wrong. You know, these are climate change — something in mind. And even this 40 million is something in mind, probably some soft projects, analyses for analysis, research. Will this €40 million go for subsidies to citizens and citizens when, what do I know, instead of burning oil, they choose to burn pellets or IR-panels or whatever you want, let's say greener technologies? If this €40 million is earmarked for subsidies for citizens and citizens, for real estate renovations, for energy recovery, then I have no problem with that. But if you're going to do what I expect you to do, there's a whole new set of people just hanging around with that tax money. How is Slovenia also generous to these foreigners? Colleague Alenka Jeraj asked a question of how many foreigners are in the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence acquired on the basis of a five-year temporary residence. The answer was 33 000,369. And about 2 million children's allowances are received, of course, by Kosovo, Albania, Romania, Bulgaria. But when you go to see how some take advantage of it, you'll find that they're big reserves. Like Pogačnik said at the beginning, if you can't draw on the money that is in Brussels, then why are you talking about loosening the fiscal rule? Problem: Water Directorate. How many projects could have already been run, but by the Bremen Waters Directorate? We, in particular, cannot carry out a project in our congregation, within which we can also talk about the fourth developmental axis, because there comes water 30 centimeters across centuries of water on some meters. And he's in the O.N. in the O.P.P.N., and he's in the B.B.O.O., and he's in the B.B.I.! The matter stands, the money stands! I agree that they are not Saša Jazbec and Dr. Ribič, these ladies are such a problem here, or they are a problem to this extent that in the Government on Thursday, or when you have a government meeting, don't hit the table that the Ministry of the Environment will finally make order. But if the problem is legislation, let's change the legislation that once the OPPN and the OPPN are under the roof, you get a building permit and go into implementation. Not that we need some consensus again, and I don't know what else to do, so that we have tens of thousands of bureaucrats who are stifling this country, including the budget, and because of them, you can't draw on European funds. And then, despite writing in these budgets to draw on a billion in 2020 and in 2021 850 million euros, you can't because you have your own kind on the boards, some middle management across the ministries, who's sticking to the laws as a drunkard fence, and just watching as long as possible, that's where he'll be staying for eight hours, and then he'll go home. You do this and the numbers in the budget can be significantly different. I really expected that there would be some content on such numbers. Because colleagues and colleagues, if the elections are regular, you only have next year because 2021 will be unproductive. The coalition is already widespread, no matter what will happen to the prime minister today for the south, but 2021 will see exactly what we saw in the previous coalition – each Member is half a year and one year before the elections has begun to submit his own law, no solutions have been on the table, they have been gone since last year anyway. You have an effective time maybe the first half of next year, the second half of you will be in the process of preparing for the presidency, the first half of 2021 will be chaired, and nine months before the elections will be an election campaign and the case will be closed. You change classes a little bit and you say it's a tax reform. What did this economic growth bring to people directly, except for the regresses they received this year’s tax-free – I am talking about the middle class – and some euros through the restructuring of the tax classes? And that's it. The minimum wage is for those who live with the lowest income, where are the other measures? At a time when the budget allows for real payloads, you did not burden them. There is no health, there is no tax, there is no pension reform, there is no reform of the education system, there is no reform of the public sector, but all these reforms are projected in the budgets and there is no such thing in these budgets. At a time when reforms could be implemented – or if the word reform, as he says, does not please the Prime Minister, because he immediately makes some resistance, but he could say changes, but really radical changes — you do not make them. I'm afraid you don't. Everything you do is cosmetic repairs. There was no answer to that last night either. You say that this change in Zpiz will bring better dose percentages and better pensions. That's what the Minister says, and the budget for pensions is less. So, the pension will be higher. I don't know if there's gonna be another 10,000 employees who'll pay more in the pension fund, but you're planning 40 million euros in 2021 for the pension fund at the Ministry of Finance positions like this today. In general, I cannot support this budget because you are alone against having more citizens and citizens, especially because you obviously cannot impose or adapt the budget to the amendment that would have been adopted. For 140 million euros, which would not go towards the functioning of municipalities in terms of ordering studies, financing of personnel, but directly for projects. Directly for the projects. Our congregation would receive some 320, 340 thousand more, and we know where we would put the money if we received it. We would put it in content that would go directly to our citizens and citizens. That's why you won't. When I have the December column in the local newspaper, I will write which parties and, above all, which members from Gorenjska – because we need to know, if we break the borders, then we will compete among ourselves, we will need to know who you were against the development of Gorenjska – I will write you in it because it is right that people know who works for the place, who works for the region, who works for the country, who works for the country, and who challenges any good proposal. The minister also says that if these amendments are accepted, the matter is broken. The law clearly states how an amendment can be made to the budget — if you propose something, you have to take something elsewhere. So if you're proposing 10 million dollars somewhere, you also have to propose where to take it, and that's why there's no imbalance in the budget. It is true, however, that it is then necessary to provide 140 million in marriage if the average rises. But given what kind of experts you are there, given that you are such experts, that you can prove twice as fast heating as you can, but I don't know how many centimeters of snow on Kredarica as it really is, I believe you will also find 140 million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Member Matei Udovč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I really didn't intend to call today, but the opposition's discussions encouraged me, showed me that my debate yesterday was not enough, so I have to repeat myself in certain parts because it was obviously not heard. At first, if I don't miss the thought, I will rely on my colleague Mahnič, who said "something in mind". The Secretary of State just declared it to be an accident, it was true, it happened to him, but that is why we cannot say for the work shown with the numbers that stand, for which we have the grounds not to. The fact is that your colleague said in the debate today that there was unanimous support for raising averages on the Committee on Finance, as your colleague Pojbič pointed out in his debate and thus deceived the public. And that's the fact that we didn't all support raising averages. Although I would say at this point that I absolutely agree, I do not believe that there is any Member who disagrees, who would not give an average of more than a thousand euros if we could, but we cannot, because there is no money. And if I comment on your amendments that are in place for development in the local area. Just as colleague Doblekar suggested, for railways, for railways, for railways, they're in place, but your proposals, where the money was taken, they don't last. The Secretary of State has made it clear that where you are taking money, European funds are earmarked for European funds which cannot be transferred to the reconstruction of the Jesenice-Ljubljana road. And as I pointed out yesterday and made it clear, every single participant or single citizen has a priority. Today we're acting like kids in kindergarten. Please, the budget is something big, something like this, and we must strive for the goal! But what you're saying today is that you're going to give here, on the boards you say so many millions for foreigners, so many millions for Slovenes around the world, once you say infrastructure, once you say this road, once for this public education! You know, yesterday I did list a real one, but I really don't want to repeat a lot of cases today. I agree, everyone has their own basket of wishes, but the government is the one who sets out guidelines and a goal that we must follow. It's true, you're right, we have the possibility of correction here, and we'll do it in certain parts, but I don't think it would be good for us to push everything the government has decided. Because this isn't just about your suggestions. If every Member were to make his own proposals, you know, it would be a little funny, well. I believe what your colleague has been saying about roads, what roads are like when driving to Ljubljana, and trucks on roads, and how much time you spend on roads – I come from Kranj, and I need an hour and a half a day to come to the National Assembly! But I don't put it all out of my voice, and I don't stress it every day. All of us who drive on the roads have these problems, we all face these problems, and everyone, believe me, we all want that we don't have these problems and that we come to Ljubljana in 25 minutes or from Maribor maybe in half an hour when it's possible. We all want the railways and infrastructure to be restored to new ones, but we need to know where we're going to get the money, really. However, the point is that whether we do not know or can not control ourselves, borrowing from debt even during a period of conjuncture, and yet still, greed. Yeah, we can really say this road, this infrastructure, this retirement home, it's all a priority, believe me. But the essence of all of this is to move forward, so I estimate that the draft budgets are planned properly and in a balanced manner in terms of the state and movement of economic growth and the need for public money. In the future, the countries will allow for stable functioning and development, but we cannot do this overnight because we have no magic sticks. Although we were already informed yesterday by the Secretary of State that the funds will be provided by redeployment, you are still insisting on your decision to amend the railways, so I ask the Secretary of State to tell you once again whether they have been able to provide funds for the reconstruction of the Jesenice-Ljubljana railway at the time the tunnel will be closed. I would also like to ask, kindly, the Secretary of State to state whether the initial work will begin for the pale bypass, even if the amendments will not be accepted tomorrow. I'm also asking for an explanation as to why this shell can't be built yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Replica, Member Marko Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u92	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Fellow Widower, I am sure that each Member has the right to make his own amendment – why not? Then there is a democratic process within Parliament and it is up to 90 Members and Members. The adoption of the amendment requires the majority. Democracy. I am sure that every Member who has tabled the amendment has done so for his own reason. The amendment adopted by the Committee on Finance, ZIPRO, the increase in the averages of the municipality, the increase from 589 to 658 in 2020 and 2021, proposed by the New Slovenia and by the Slovenian Democratic Party, was also confirmed by the coalition members. You have to make up your mind in the coalition. This means that the majority of the Committee on Finance was confident and is probably still convinced that the averages of municipalities should be raised. The outcome of the vote was 11:8 for the amendment, and among these 11 votes were members of the coalition. Just so much. They were also members of the coalition, at 11: 8 a.m. Second thing. You said: investments, the amendment to the railway, the renewal of Gorenjska, we take from funds we cannot take from European funds. That's not true. Take a look at the amendment proposal, and from which subroutines will we move the funds. I am just like most of the people here today who have debated, and I am sure – I think we will get to this debate at Zippers – that we are talking about 1% of the budget, and that it would probably be possible to redistribute these funds. I will stress again, and the coalition Members have also supported the increase in averages. The vote on the Committee on Finance was 11: 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has asked for the floor. Sasha Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Jani Ivanuša asked whether the proposal for a higher average was fiscally controversial. I would point out here once again that the draft budgets 2020 and 2021 are prepared on the assumption that the average for 2002 and 2021 is the same as in the government proposal, which means that if you confirm tomorrow the draft budgets under these assumptions – and the others that we have now mentioned here – and then a few hours later confirmed a law whose average is not the same, it is said that this assumption is no longer the same, that will mean that the budget, if you confirm them, and the law that is responsible for the implementation of these two budgets or is linked to it, will not be harmonised. Technically, according to Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this means that we will not have budgets. That's the technical part. What, though, would it be like to give these 140 million in some way — what would it look like on the fiscal side? This 140 million represents about 0.3% of gross domestic product, and if the Fiscal Council has already said that we are on the verge of moving, then this 0.3% of GDP would be reduced due to the fact that these municipalities, as you said, are likely to spend this money, the balance of the state sector would be reduced accordingly. And if we are now at these numbers on the edge, we have reason to believe that this drop over the edge, that then these two budgets would be, if it were, in a large picture, all of these 2 000 700 units together, as far as the state sector is concerned, incompatible or that this risk of non-compliance with the fiscal rule would be greater. I hope I made that clear now. I think that's what the minister said in his speech, but it's okay to clear things up. Then I would like to respond only to the implementation of Mr Mahnič. Zpiz, the law, is in the procedure of the National Assembly, not yet accepted. It plans to increase the dose rate. The higher dose percentages will, as is now the case in the proposal, gradually occur, so those who retire next year will not have six percentage points higher than one. So this is going to happen gradually. This marriage, as I said before, has not yet been passed. When we are preparing draft budgets, we need to draw a line somewhere, which takes account of what we do not take into account. The budget proposal is, of course, in this part of the transfer to Zpiz, in line with the financial plan of the Zpiza. So we can't just make up these numbers, but we can't just make up something to lower it or I don't know what it meant. It is estimated at the Zpiz that the increase in the number of pensioners, the harmonisations and so on will take place on these assumptions, will then make the expenditure side that determines the size of the pension fund, then calculate how much income they will have from the contributions of employers, employees and, if they are running out, what they expect is what they need and receive from the state budget. So back here are calculations that are very careful calculations. And if the UMAR forecast shows that there will be so much and so, it is said that those who will contribute so much and so much, if wages so increase, then mathematics here is relatively simple. You mentioned European funds. We probably have nothing to boast about, but we are on average in Europe. The latest data for Europe is that 35% is exhausted at the level of the European Member States, Slovenia is 34th, so we are where we are. But it bothered me that you said that the ministries, of course, are doing nothing again. We have gone with our colleagues to see who are the beneficiaries, who are the final beneficiaries of these funds from European cohesion policy. We've analyzed the last perspective that's been completed, and let me tell you that this is how it goes. So you said that there are no projects, and so on, when the colleague explained why this difference was between how many contracts were concluded and how much it actually paid off, because there is an event here, is the execution or implementation of projects on the ground. In the previous perspective, ministries accounted for 21% of the total cohesion envelope, 35% of the municipalities, public companies, namely public companies and state-owned companies, municipalities, public funds, public agencies, public institutions, 15% of the funds received, NGOs 6%, individuals and households, co-financing of studies and so on, 2% and private companies received 20% of European funds. That's why it's simply not true when you say that the ministries don't act like projects are not ready. This statistics show who the final users of these funds are and who has all the problems on the ground before they make it possible for them to have a project, to have accounts that they can then bring to them, to be paid out of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Jean Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you. I didn't say the ministries didn't do anything. Sometimes they work too hard when things need to be blocked, when they need to be adjusted, and when bureaucratic procedures are put under their feet. I did say there weren't any projects. Look, Madam Secretary of State, I come alone from a party that already had twice the President of the Government, and it was on Saturday that we talked about these European funds at the anniversary dinner. He told me that the second time he came to the post of Prime Minister of the Government, when he saw what a mess it was and how it was not done to draw European funds, they sat at the table and then daily demanded how projects needed to be prepared and what needed to be pumped. And all of a sudden, the system started to work. But if there is no leadership, if you have a government president who prefers to go on the field every day and the speaker is at one or two celebrations, it can't be if you don't have someone who's responsible to sit at the table and say, "Now this is going to happen, and I want this to be reported to me on a regular basis. If you do not do so, you will go.” So is the responsible owner of the company, the president of a board of directors, the president of each company or the president of the government. But if you don't work like this, you're the one who did it. I'm not saying that nothing is exhausted, of course it is, but I hope you agree that substantially less than it could be. Also, the way we draw – a billion 200 is supposed to be the final value, although it is likely to be higher – 10% of the EU's assets in this second round, while the Croats received 80% for the Peljesac bridge.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I need to ask the Secretary of State again, or I need to squeeze it completely into a corner with a question. In your response, you said that there were two mothers who were supposed to be whitening each other or beating each other. Let me ask you briefly: Was the proposal of the SDS party to increase averages to take account of the fiscal rule yes or no? And if this amendment goes on, does it cause the unconstitutionality of the law, yes or no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ms Nina Mauhler, Secretary of State, also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I would like to further explain the two projects that have been mentioned several times already yesterday and today, with regard to the renewal of the railway line between Kranj and Jesenica and the reconstruction of the Karavanka railway tunnel. So the reconstruction of the Karavanka railway tunnel is foreseen, the funds are foreseen in the budget. It is envisaged that the renovation of the tunnel will begin in October next year, starting in October 2020. At that time, the directorate will, in principle, also start with some parts on the line upgrade. However, since it is the end of the year and because we cannot draw more than anticipated between 10 million and 20 million, we have already warned yesterday that the substance of this amendment makes no sense. It also makes no sense to suggest where to redistribute the money. The proposal was to redistribute the money from the second track project, from European funds. Once again, we have two contracts signed for IPE or CEF funds, the Connecting Europe Facility, the first project or the first contract is worth around 44 million, the second about 109 million. One contract allocates funds for the construction of the bridge building in the Glinščica Valley and for the construction of accessible roads, another 109 million is intended for the construction of tunnels from tunnel one to seven with 80% Slovenian participation. We cannot redistribute resources from these two sources. Yesterday I explained that we have some ideas on how to redistribute cohesion, I am talking about in general, the whole cohesion package or the entire cohesion envelope. And yes, we're going to speed up this project, it's called an upgrade to the railway line. The reconstruction of the Karavanka tunnel will take place sometime by the end of April 2021 and, of course, some of the most urgent work on the railway superstructure would also begin, the rest, and the difference would then be under traffic, which is also technically or technologically feasible. The project is divided into the southern and northern border of Bled or Bled. The northern blemish is already closed, and we're left with a second section, which is the southern bypass. The location of the southern bypass was in the Bled Municipality domain, and the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate is now continuing to run this project. Regrettably, the directorate is still unable to submit documentation for the building permit or application for a building permit, as not all the land has yet been acquired. However, not all land is acquired because of a certain part of the landowners, it is about 20 plots, but it is opposed to the sale of these land, which are, of course, essential for obtaining the right to construction. We will begin the decommissioning process as soon as these procedures are completed, then the Directorate will also apply for a building permit. This makes the clock impossible to predict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Any of the government's representatives want to answer anything else? State Secretary Mag. Sasha Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u102	Mr. Ivanus, you've cornered me, you say. Here's what I'm gonna say. If the SDS has recalculated its proposal in accordance with the formula set out in Article 3 of the Fiscal Rule Act, I don't know, so you have to ask them. I can answer you like this. On the draft budget proposals prepared by the Ministry of Finance, the Government then prepared and adopted a draft budget plan for 2020, reflecting the state of finance, public finances, in the country for the whole year 2020. This is the document assessed by the Fiscal Council and, on the basis of a surplus of 0.9% of the gross domestic product planned for the following year, the Fiscal Council has assessed that such public finances are in line with the fiscal rule. What the SDS and the New Slovenia Amendment proposes, this higher average, which would go into additional consumption in municipalities, would mean in figures that the surplus of the state sector for the following year would probably not be the same as it is now planned, but if the value of this 0.3% of GDP, we can estimate that it would be so much lower. And if the Fiscal Council has already assessed the original document so much that it is consistent that there are great risks that any risk that applies already means a risk of deviation from formal compliance, I say that this risk would increase further in this scenario. Unfortunately, however, I cannot answer you yes or no, because either one budget is consistent or not, it can be determined once it is implemented. Because what we have now is the plans that are made for the best efforth, which is the best for everything we know, what will actually happen, and we will know after these budgets are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replics. First, Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State Mauhler, let me tell you – since we were both once in the Railways – there is only one track against Gorenjska or one track. There's only one track. If you do not accept our proposal or move the upgrade to later, the traffic, as you said, is practical – for the first time it is very expensive, it is first of all, the prisons are abnormally expensive, and the second time it is just one track, there is no roadway. And there, I mean completely pointless, well. [[…]] I propose once again that you take this into account and that, at the same time as the parts, at the time the line against Gorenjska will be closed, work on the upgrade will also begin. I think that this is the only right way, even rational, as far as traffic is concerned, and also as far as the financial aspect is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Member Zvonko Blackach has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I do not think that this average is a formal technical issue and does not concern the fiscal rules and those problems mentioned by the Secretary of State. On this issue, it is a purely substantive question whether the government is willing to give the municipalities some more money for investment in the next two years because it has been drained from them for the past 10 years, or not. No one will convince me that 1% of the budget is impossible to redistribute and find funds on other items if we are talking about this and are not leaving any frameworks. Nor will anyone convince me that every year the budget is 100% realized as planned, but there are deviations from one, two, three or more percentages. This is not about the technical issues addressed by a fellow Member. If this is to be adopted in the National Assembly, it will be necessary to adopt a harmonisation amendment, adjustments, if necessary, including a budget rebalancing due to me. However, under Article 28 ZIPRS, the Government can make transfers between consumers and the matter is resolved. So this is about the substantive question whether the coalition is willing to listen to the needs of the environment from which Members come, whether Members are willing to provide some more money for the environment where they have been elected, so that they can develop normally or not. This is not about formalistic and technical issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague, Montenegro, that this is a substantive issue, and I have talked about it a lot, but I will also help the secretary of state a little bit, so we will also come up with some numbers, assessments, prices. She said that it would actually amount to a structural deficit, or so I will say - I don't know what she said would not be wrong. Less 0.1%, if we also take into account the averages. Now it's a structural deficit of 0.2, but it would be a minus 0.1. However, the structural deficit allowed is minus 0.25%. It's actually accepted that way. These are just the grades we can talk about. These estimates show that this structural deficit is in the context of an authorised deficit, even if the average increases. There is little news about this, and I think the Secretary of State is aware of this information. I wouldn't be talking about what a structural deficit is, I'd take that, if you want, just as an accounting deficit. However, it may not agree to make other assessments if the Government has other assessments. But we have on one side minus 0.1%, on the other hand we have plus 0.2, and the allowed structural deficit is minus 0.25. So purely calculating about it. We have compensatory measures if public finances did not fall under the fiscal rule. Because here we have to look at what is considered to be a fiscal rule, not just a state budget, there are other budgets, there is actually total state spending and so on and so on. This is where we get along. But I have made these assessments which show that this structural deficit is also such that it is within the scope of the authorised measure. From this point of view, little help to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State Nina Mauhler also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Let me just answer Mr. Doblekar for a moment. I don't know if I've made myself clear. In fact, our intention is that in October 2020, when the reconstruction of the Karavanka tunnel begins, the directorate will also begin the reconstruction of the track. However, given the fact that this work can only be carried out in October, November and December, it will be possible to close in 2020 only the financial situation of October, which means that between 10 and 20 million will be spent in 2020. Therefore, I say that the substance of this amendment makes no sense because it will not be possible to spend that much. And it's not possible to redistribute them from the resources you've proposed. That's why I'm saying it doesn't make sense. Otherwise, once the tunnel is closed, the reconstruction of this tunnel would also be carried out. I hope it's clear now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u112	Dear Vice-President of this National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! For the past month and another thing in this National Assembly is speaking or presenting, it is now looking at the budgets for 2020, 2021. I remember the President of the Government when he made an introduction to this debate a while ago when he presented this budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the highest in the history of Slovenia. The Minister of Finance said yesterday that this is the best budget in the European Community. I just sat down with an entrepreneur who works for three weeks in New York, and he's been in a home company for a week. And we talked, and since I'm a member of Parliament every day in politics, maybe he cleared up my view of some of the segments when we were also talking about the budget, he gave me a picture that we might most forget. Today we talk mostly about a million or 100,000 euros for education or homes or kindergartens, or some road will or will not be. Today we live in a country where – I initially said – the President of the Government has presented that the biggest budget is, the Minister of Finance says that the best budget is now that our experts have been talking for months now whether we are going to be making a tunnel to Karavanka or not. That's what people are monitoring from the outside. For a year and more we talk about the second track, we set up our own company. While this company was not there, we Members very much welcomed this investment, and even when it was below 800 000 euros, now that this company was established and when the investment escaped over a billion, we began to pay attention. This is important for the budget. When we accept this budget, we live at a time when managers in Telekom and in Petrol were cut off overnight. When we adopt this budget, we live at a time when the Ljubljana mayor is destroying the best drinking water in Europe for me. But we live on budget when we don't even have a Minister for Cohesion. Recently, we found out that we haven't had one in two months, by replacing the two. One of the most important segments. However, there is always a debate in this National Assembly whether there will be a million for one project or not. And of course, when the opposition points out this, it is most often unheard of or you can tell us that we have certain desires that are not realistic. In the country – I am appalled when we have the information that – we have over a billion unpaid taxes, taxes that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will probably never feel. This is unacceptable to me as a citizen. Again, we are talking about millions, about one million, whether he will go to the congregation, I don't know, Radovljica or Prekmurje. We accept this budget, where we once put 20 million money into a state forest company. For all schools in Slovenia, this budget is set at 5 million in 2020 and 5 million in 2021. This forest company, which I mention, wants to give EUR 6 million for the business building. At a strategic point where, according to some healthy farming logic, it should become the center of the woodworking industry. I don't know where. I don't know where in Gorenjsk. Now we are building a business building that costs €6 million. For all schools – not to forget the homes, that 11 thousand of our citizens and citizens, who, of course, have worked fairly for 40 years or more, have no opportunity to get a room where they need it. We've only got $5 million for that, too. In short, the budget, which, according to the Prime Minister's opinion, is the highest – because we all read numbers, we agree in principle, but we are less able to agree with the Minister of Finance, who says that this is the best budget. It is many times yesterday, and today there is also a debate on whether or not one of the ministries is working or not working on. Sometimes it might be better if someone didn't do something. I think it's best for the country if someone works to do good, they're results. But if someone's working and making mistakes, it better not be working. Let me finish. When we talk about the budget, we are not in a position to even burden the net salary so that people can earn more. In short, we live in a country where they can write someone off, even a court burns down, I don't know, 29 million or 30 million or 20 million, but we don't have the basics. And I can feel very bad about going to Styria, so that with the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the amendment, all the congregations will remain the same. I think that if there is any development in the Republic of Slovenia, then the development in the municipalities is wide across Slovenia, from Kopra to Prekmurje, Dolenjska, Koroška. The budget, as the Minister of Finance calls it, is not good for me, so I will not support it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Member Jani Ivanuša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to replicate the Secretary of State earlier, but then you took me into account as a debater. I'm still going to touch Mrs. Secretary of State. I'm kind of in a quandary because I didn't get the right answer or the right answer from you to make a better decision about it. It's extremely difficult for you, as I understand it, to answer that. So this must be done, then it can be determined whether this fiscal rule has been followed or not. This is very important to me in this decision that is at the door. As for your answers, I expected at least an evaluation, but you said you couldn't give an answer, so I'm a little disappointed here. It's all right. You're in your line of work. And the State Secretary for Infrastructure left, so Aya, here she is, sorry. [[…]] I'll check in on the budget. I want to know, our very, very fast road, the future Ormož-Ptuj road, which has been standing there somewhere between the clouds, it's been dragging for 30 years, I'm afraid. Or you can tell me more, or I always have a question, and for the Prime Minister we had, but we are building a section, a passage across the railway to Ormož, that is all that is currently being built on this relationship, and that is now one big concrete monument, and that is all. I hope it doesn't stay in this concrete monument. Maybe you can tell me more. I was also personally on Darsa, and I was terribly disappointed when I left Celje, from the administration, when I looked around this road. I believe that the other two Members of Parliament were at your home or have been informed. I don't see another one here as if, if not with another, we're just trying with someone, as we call it, political pressure to build this road. Because we see what happened to the third developmental axis now. There is even a document created with the help of a civil initiative, a number of civil initiatives, not just one, on the third development axis, which will be substantially earlier – thank God, far from anyone understanding that we have anything against it, not by chance. But it is true that we are talking about coherent regional development, that all segments of the country are even and – what would you say? – they are fairly up-to-date in terms of infrastructure, more road and rail. We have this bad luck that we're out there somewhere, I don't know, the last time I explained this to the Prime Minister, whether we're second-rate or not, I don't know who we are. Mainly, this road is one major disaster, it's been dragging for 30 years. I don't know, it's hard for me, maybe it's liquid for someone, but not for me, it's hard for me to drive every day, like we've been listening to how many hours someone's been driving. So give me a little more encouraging information. Now I have a chance to ask you this directly. That's it. As far as the budget is concerned. Once again, the only good thing about these two budgets is that they show surplus. I don't know what it would be like to show a 2-billion minus every year. Now we're fighting on the plus side, what would happen if we had a minus. Then that's how I think we'd shoot each other in here, I don't know. Well, that's what they say. I mean, I didn't think anyone would think anything else. Budgets are what they are. If I were to put them together, I'd put them together better, with priorities. There's no telling where things are in our country. Not to mention this megalomaniac public sector, which is now at 170 000. Last we heard on the Finance Committee, 3 000 668 were new jobs from January to today. That's an incredible number. So give 3 000 600 people together, 5 people have a salary, I'm interested in the effect of these jobs, that's all. Besides, I know you can't answer that to me today, Madam Secretary of State, because that's something else I'm talking about again, but 3 000 668 this year. We're almost on our army's number. And I don't understand that the sector is expanding, but I would understand that it is shrinking, because it would be important that, now that we have a conjuncture, when we have GDP every year in growth, these people who are employed in the public sector should be employed in the economy. The effect would be two. Now we're hiring them in the public sector, and I don't even know what they're doing. And of course, the result is, as we have heard today, 3 billion 200 per salary at the annual level. 3 billion 200 euros from the salary budget. And so on and so forth. These are numbers that give you a headache, but this is my debate. I won't be answering again. I'd say so. I must point out to the previous gentleman that for 2020, however, the average is foreseen by the Government at €15.61, so that it has been proposed, it will not remain the same, here it would be corrected. Of course, averages are welcome, as they are, only by lifting. I would expect the coalition's response yesterday to the amendment that if it was not 70 years old, like the opposition proposal, this interim moment would be a whole goat and the wolf sat. But that didn't happen. Here I am disappointed that the coalition has not gone with any more positive proposal than the one voted on the parent body, according to the Committee on Finance. Yeah. Secretary of State, I'm not going to tire you out, but I'm going to be another lady. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Member Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you. Jani, I will answer you instead of the secretary of state, because she has to give such an answer – on the one hand she knows she has to answer in such a way that you will support their amendment and on the other hand she wants to remain credible and not deceive you. Nothing will change if our amendment remains. Nothing's gonna change. The state will not fail, the government will not fall, the finance minister will not give up, in the meantime, when the other amendments adopted will also bring together the Finance Committee, will accept the harmonisation amendment, and as you said, the wolf will be set, the goat whole, your Ormož will get 700,000 more and I really don't understand how any of the Members who were once mayor or mayor can oppose such an amendment, or anyone who wants good to their citizens and citizens, to the local population and not least to all citizens, will oppose this amendment because it is their money. I would only touch what colleague Matey Udovč said – that our amendments are fine, but the problem is where we are taking them from. No problem coming here, we sit down, we can change until the vote, and let her tell you where she thinks she can be taken, and we'll just change the spending, that's what we take, because then she can. And when she said, "The government sets a guidelines for development and we have to follow this," I cannot agree with that. And who is the Government to dictate what Parliament will do, how will Parliament see where the development goal of this country is, where are the guidelines of this country?Oh, my God! And then he says that now every Member will have his own amendment. You know what would be the smartest thing to do, even though it might sound weird? The government should have 90 million reserves at the annual budget when it sends it to Parliament and say that each Member has a million and should give it to where it wants it with the amendment. So we book 90 million, that's our deal, any Member can make a million out of this somewhere, either for one school or for a road or I'm either there or three different. The debate would be much shorter, perhaps something would have moved at the local level. This country already has it, not legally, but it's some kind of gentleman's agreement. And it would be significantly easier and Parliament would also have a role to play. Nor would all these floods of amendments, it would have been known that some 90 amendments would have been put where someone wanted to put the money, and the story would have been finished. What I said was that I don't see what the citizens will have out of this – we would have a lot of it from our two amendments. The first is for the congregations, where they will receive directly, and the second is what we have proposed. And we have not proposed anything else, even 10 million euros less, which is what the government has in the coalition contract, 160 million euros for housing policy. So, about 290 million of us would start projects at the municipal level and start building apartments. This would be the citizens of our two amendments, which I consider to be the most important at some state level, but of course no less important than all the other amendments that our Members have tabled for the local environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Anybody else want to discuss this? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will take place on Thursday, 21 November 2019 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? You may also apply here, Madam Secretary of State, if you wish. [[advertising from the hall]] How? You can do it later with the amendments. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 18 November 2019. We are moving to the budget user 1537 Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world and discussion on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support to Slovenians in place and around the world and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1611 of the Ministry of Finance and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Payment of Rights and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Economic Cooperation and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1912 of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Member of the Black House, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you. This amendment provides additional funds for the civil protection and rescue system for firefighters. Specific means for specific activities, instead of virtual resources or resources for studies and projects, to increase the fight against climate change so that Slovenia does not heat up twice as much as the rest of the world. Here we allocate funds to those who actually need these funds, who are on the ground every day, saving lives. I think it would be right for the government to support this amendment and not support it, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for technological development projects and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme of Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Management of Agricultural Lands and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme to address the consequences of natural disasters and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Not here either. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the nine amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the three amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Blacky, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u120	I'm sorry, president, I'm a little lost, but I wonder if it's a sub-programme Investment activity on rail infrastructure or if we're not there yet?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u121	We're right here.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. It's a mountain line. We are proposing an amendment because it is an important project, which is also placed in the Strategy for the Spatial Development of Slovenia and in the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the documents were adopted in the past; the Transport Development Strategy and the national transport infrastructure development programme in 2016 and 2017. From 2020 to 2023, the mountain line is placed somewhere along the timeline. So, exactly during this period for which we propose that these funds be earmarked for this investment. That is, for next year, and especially for 2021. It is also an important project in terms of trans-shipment capabilities. In this document, the Transport Development Strategy is intended to cover over 13 million tonnes and over 3 million passengers on this Jesenice-Ljubljana route in 2030. The value of this investment is less than €120 million. On the other hand, we have in the same document a single track, a new second track, Divaca-Koper, where we have an estimated amount of transhipment in the same year 2030 18 million 900 thousand tonnes. So, it's only 5 million tons more. However, we have a significantly lower projected number of passengers of 700 000, not 3 million 300, as foreseen on the mountain line. So, the mountain track, more than ten times the cost of an investment project as a unitary route of Divac-Koper. After this cost, the profitability, the economy of Divac-Koper, should be there if it stood somewhere between EUR 120 and 130 million. But we know that the value is at least a billion 200, and that's probably more. Funds for the Divača-Koper Single Line are provided and resources for the mountain line are not provided. What is being taken is then the harmonisation amendment, if something is not properly written, but the content is essentially that this means must be provided and that all activities on the project, which is ready to go, must be carried on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Just to remind you, the representatives of the Government may be involved in the debate on the amendments when you consider that this is necessary. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. I concluded yesterday's budget debate with calls for support for our 2020 budget amendment, which earmarked €30 million for the construction of the Gorenje track. The amendment to the budget for 2021, which we have submitted to Levico, provides an additional €40 million for the same project. The overall initiative for the reconstruction of the mountain line is heavy EUR 113 million plus VAT. 30 plus 40 is 70 million, the gap in these funds, if our amendment is confirmed, is derived from a later budget in 2022. The renovation of the mountain line is required in blood, the track was built 130 years ago. The signalling on this track is already 40 years old, the emergency tracks are too short, and delays and failures multiply in trains. If you have been monitoring media coverage of what was happening in the public, you can see, there I think that in Radovljica the bridge, which was literally built back in the time of Mary Teresa and shows him that he will be thundering on the track at any time. Renovation of the mountain railway is urgently needed. The speed of trains is limited to 50 kilometres per hour because of its longevity. So, this one other route that we even have, and it's full-loaded, it's not as flowing as it could be. The update, which was also envisaged in the resolution, does not provide for the construction of a second track, although I would like to discuss it at all today because it is also necessary. However, it foresees that line crossings are drawn to replace the underpasses so that these long-lasting buildings along the track, such as railway stations, are restored, renovated. Under the line, this update, which is not such a very large investment from the point of view of the budget, together over 100 million euros, would make trains in Goranj much more accurate, much more reliable that the track itself becomes more flowing than it is at the moment. Because of the delays of passenger trains, I mentioned yesterday, I can say at least for Gorenjska – I do not know how it is at other ends of Slovenia – they became a joke, they were born, they became a joke. No passenger train actually takes it seriously to bring it exactly, and every time it does, it's a little bit of a surprise, when or if it actually does. The exact length of the mountain line is the reason why rail traffic is falling. Nor does this apply only to Gorenjska, the numbers are alarming for the whole of Slovenia. If we look at what happened to passengers travelling on routes between 2008 and 2016, we find that the number of passengers has actually fallen. So, in the 21st century, in the European country, the number of passengers riding trains has dropped! I almost expect someone to sign up for the word and start explaining how passengers do not travel by train, but rather get in the car because they are too lazy because we have already heard such arguments in defense of this budget. The truth is that a person simply will not get on a train unless he is offered a reliable, fast, comfortable connection. Pika. He prefers to get in the car, thus additionally burdening the environment and losing his nerve behind the steering wheel in the traffic jam in Celovška because he has at least approximately calculated gauges there to get to work for a while. You go wait for the train to the station, you sign up for the raffle. I am a regular user of the relationship mainly between Škofja Loka and between Ljubljana. I have much to say about the train delays on this route and the state of the infrastructure accompanying these delays. But in fact, this part of the mountain line is still the least problematic. If we look up, from Škofje Loka v Kranj or even from Kranj forward to Jesenica, there really are problems that go to absurde! Half the time, if you drive from Kranj to the Jesenics or the other way, your phone won't be hunting at all. Now imagine someone with a full schedule who rushes to work, who would like to make a useful use of his transit time to drink coffee to read the daily newspaper, maybe pulls out a laptop, and what the rest of the work of the previous day split on the way to the shyrth or whatever, since, after all, it is a transit of this kind, the mountain line does not allow it! And it won't allow it to continue if we don't update it. Sustainable transport, sustainable mobility is one of the coal stones of the welfare of a country, if we take it seriously. It's not just a matter of welfare. There's a climate crisis at our door. Road transport CO2 emissions reach 38%. From the point of view of the environment, driving on the roads, driving in cars, possibly everyone in their car, is a living disaster. On the other hand, railways produce only 1% of CO2 emissions in Slovenia. And if we take climate change seriously, if we really understand it as a crisis, then it is one of the fundamental steps we need to take to get people off the road. In fact, it doesn't take that much. This is not a matter of propaganda campaigns to convince people to trade four wheels and a steering wheel for cars and locomotives. But just to make the train a better, more attractive, faster alternative than the urgent evil of the morning and evening commuter in which you are forced to come to work and back. In the end, people will follow these kind of rail traffic upgrades themselves, without a problem. Who wants to get stuck in a traffic jam in Celovska every morning? None at all. It's necessarily evil. On the other hand, driving a train could be a pleasant thing to do. Before anyone starts to whine, Venezuela, Venezuela, the socialists want a train because Venezuela – or anything like that. No, what we want to provide socialists with by updating the mountain line is a normal reality of a serious, developed European state. We were the only ones who favored concrete, favored asphalt, favored roads, and, in fact, there was no good reason. I mean, I can understand that back there are so-called road mafias or concrete mafias or whatever they're called, who can make a lot of money from such infrastructure projects. But from a political point of view, what would be good for people, which would contribute to the preservation of the environment, is further investment in the developed part of the country, i.e. in central Slovenia, in the motorway something so missed that it would be difficult to miss. Also a Ljubljana bypass we talked about at a meeting in the National Assembly a few months ago. Ljubljana does not need the next highway ring, which will devour a billion at least – we have heard such assessments. The entire Ljubljana urban region, which stretches across the heart of Slovenia and is slightly misleadingly named in reality, needs a quality railway transit. Investments in roads are mostly self-sustaining. If you don't believe me, take a look at a photograph of any highway in the United States, on the other side of the Atlantic — 5 belts, 6 belts, 7 belts, 8 belts. Do you think all these enormous, chaotic, blocked highways have begun — as mastodonically built and planned — as seven-passengers? No, of course not. It was a minor transit, they ended up tighter. But what happened? As the number of people increased as the need for daily migration increased, the policy has always responded to this need – every decade another lane of highways, another lane of highways will solve the problem. And next year again; oh, look, more cars, another lane of highways, another lane of highways will solve the problem. Well, the problem never solved. You had a highway with four lanes, in the '70s, in the '80s became a five-passenger, in the '90s became a six-passenger, and so on. Why? Because the road feeds itself; it is never wide enough, it is never flowing enough. If we want a qualitative leap in daily migration, in the comfort of citizens and citizens in these migrations, we need a conscious and strategic shift in how we understand our public passenger infrastructure. Very concrete; the budget is a cut-off for these priorities and unfortunately we do not find investment in the mountain line in this budget. At least not as it should be, a large part of the documentation is prepared for it. What must follow all these prepared papers is little money. But in spite of all the arrangements, despite all the confirmations of the upgrade of the mountain line, which fell out of the budget, we have tabled amendments in Levica to put it back in the budget. The studies were made in parallel with the ideas that another highway ring should be built around Ljubljana, saying very clearly that this traffic of the most burdened part of Slovenia can be much better arranged and organised if the traffic moves to the track. Certain relationships are such that only by slightly increasing the quality of rail transport will the number of passengers on them double. And the first of such links, as we can see, is exactly the relation on the mountain line: Kranj-Skofja Loka-Ljubljana. With some updates, a few investments can raise the number of railway participants who choose a train instead of a road for their daily transit by 100 %. One more time. Once again, we are not talking about billions when updating the mountain track, we are talking about a good 100 million euros. How important the modernisation of this line is, too, is the fact that the upper congregations threw their weight for it, that is to say, for this update. Practically all the municipalities of Gorenje have expressed themselves in favour of providing budgetary resources and renovating the railway is considered a transport priority. Moreover, since the modernisation of the mountain line was practically a bottom-up deal, the mentioned thing, everything done, some municipalities have already reserved funds in their budgets to contribute to this modernisation. It was agreed to cover mainly imports to line and outpost facilities and the like. These municipal budgets are written, they are adopted, they are confirmed, and then for an unknown reason, the Ministry of Infrastructure declares that there will be no money in the 2020 budget and 2021 for the modernisation of the mountain line. It's like we're making a little fool of each other. That's not working. If you do not want to invest at least in the quality of public transport for a passenger, consider the following. You like to talk about the economy, you like to put it on a pedestal and an enlarged place in society. From Kranj to Jesenic, the mountain line is already occupied in 90 percent. These capacities are practically stocked, and this is our main artery, through which it is exported to Austria and further along the railway. In fact, colleagues and colleagues, we should, today, talk about how we will draw a second track in Gorenjska, but not talk about whether or not we will be stations, undercarriages, overpasses, signalling, and so on, so that the scope of this transit, which is now taking place on the railway, will take place slightly smoother and will open up a little bit more of a manoeuvre space and some more train composition will be compressed in between. We should really talk about this. I don't know from daily experience if most of you could contribute to this debate because you're probably all tied to your four wheels, but I'll tell you again, purely from the first-person experience of Škofja Lok-Ljubljana, what it looks like. Among other things, there is only one place on this route where two trains can meet — Medvod. And first, what happens to you. You come to the station ten minutes earlier in Skofja Loka and you hear from the announcements that the train will come with such a delay. Five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes — why? Because the locomotive broke down because they had to put one track on their nose or something. Then you move on, you know you got to the next station in Retec. Why? Because the railroad was run through a grape and your phone died down there. Well, then the next stop is already those Bears, where the train usually stops. Why? As it is said, there is the only place where two compositions can meet and, of course, if the composition from Ljubljana towards Goranje is late, then the train from Gorenjska to Ljubljana or in this particular case from Škofje Loka to Ljubljana at the station in Medvod. You wait ten minutes, you wait 20 minutes, you wait as long as it takes to get the train out of the opposite direction, and then the traffic can move on normally. It's no wonder people run away from the train and rather get in cars and they're snorkeling on roads, nervousness, red lights, and I don't know what else. A major contribution to making the train a more attractive alternative for people to choose to reduce their traffic emissions in this way is just an update, just an update of the mountain line. Otherwise, we will pass through all the milestones set to prepare, respond, adapt to the climate crisis, but there will still be no mountain tracks. Then, somewhere, some terrible accident will happen, something will crash completely prolonged, but extraordinary meetings will be convened, heads collected, fingers pointed, and so forth. Colleagues and colleagues, when voting on this budget, we have every opportunity to prevent such a thing from happening and to finally modernise the mountain railway. We can hear, in opposition to the idea that the mountain railway needs to be modernised, including the arguments, czech, works can only start in October 2020, which means that most of the accounts fall into 2021 and in no case do we need the 30 million we have spent in Levica in 2020. I happen to know that this is live rubbish and anyone who thinks that this is an argument that drinks water, I invite him to sit on the train with me and at the end of the day we can also get in the car and take a trip on the mountain track and go from candelabra to candelabra, show him to you individually, if you want, who can wink at him without waiting for the Karavankas to close or for the railway transit to the mountain line to shut down anyway. Without difficulty, works can start before October 2020 and if they can start before October 2020, then the modernisation of the railway can also consume more than €10 million in the following year, just in the year later, that is in 2021. If it's not just one thought and a colorful metaphor, I can tell you the following. I'm home from the Holy Spirit in Sculpture Loka. When I wake up in the morning, I look out the window. That's how I see Knauf's factory at the right corner of the eye, the chimney, there's a new one, including the oxygen plant. Most of my eyes open up to the Sorce field, the back of the hill, in between the railways. I've got a line crossing 500 meters from the house. No, that's not the line crossing the Ministry of Infrastructure wants to close. It's a second, two passages up, up north. Well, for weeks now, maybe a month, maybe two, around this section of the highway, construction machinery without the current rail traffic regime being in any way hampered or any way pulled short. That's where you work. There is already some work and work done so that traffic on the track is not in any way hampered and I therefore again reject, at all points, the argument that we can invest only 10 million for the mountain track in 2020 and everything else gradually later. It's not true. It is true that the renovation of the mountain line must be synchronized with the closure of the Karavank. This is a good thing, because in Gorenjska we will not have two traffic jams, but only one at a time, but, such works and such works are much to do on the mountain track, they do not have to wait again in October 2020. If you do not believe in me, colleagues and colleagues, and representatives of the Ministry, look at the letter addressed to you by some municipalities – Škofja Loka, Kranj, Radovljica and so on – 2 days ago, 18 November, where they say to pussy the same way we try to prove socialists in the National Assembly. An accurate train, a serious railway – this is the 21st century transport perspective and a response to the climate crisis in transit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I see that there is an even greater interest in the debate, so I will open the application, and please report to the one you want to discuss. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word mag. Andrej Reich, prepare for Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. There's nothing I wouldn't have responded to. I personally very much reject left and right populism based on the creation of technical facts, these are false news, these are rude deceptions to the public, with the aim of achieving self-promotion. After my profession, I am a construction engineer, and it is hard to imagine that someone is just coming, but he says that for construction works without projects, it is not clear which works can be carried out and set up the entire profession, technical expertise, as incompetent, because a certain time has 3 minutes or 5 minutes to discuss all technical matters. It's not the first time we've told such lies, what I've made clear is that they're lies and they're fabricating facts. Unfortunately, we haven't heard this in the National Assembly for the first time. This is, unfortunately, a constant in this National Assembly and some use it daily in their arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you. A colleague of the SAB Group, who holds the Ministry of Infrastructure and blocks the renovation of the mountain line, has, of course, jumped in defense of this flawed policy, favouring additional investment in motorways in the middle of Slovenia. Now about what is done and what is not done without projects, you can take me to the Holy Spirit to tell those baggers that they shouldn't be there and they shouldn't be doing it, because obviously they can't. 500 meters from my byte. First thing. Another thing is, if the modernisation of the mountain railway is without projects, as you claim, why do you at the same time claim that work on this track will start in the second half of the following year and will preferably be completed by 2022, but if we are without projects. I'm sorry, I'm not an engineer, but I know enough to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Reich has a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u130	I just want to propose I'm a designer by profession and I know what project documentation looks like. [[…]] You probably haven't seen her in your life, and I would suggest that you be more careful about your statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u131	Mr Reich, this was not a procedural proposal, but a replica of a replica which, in exceptional cases, is allowed, but not in the form of a procedural proposal. I therefore ask that we do not abuse procedural proposals in the future. We continue the debate. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. In this amendment we have tabled, it must be further said that it is an upgrade of the mountain railway from Kranj to Jesenic. The estimated value of parts is EUR 125 million. However, for the 2021 budget, we propose an amendment of €65 million. We must not forget that it is essential to work properly at the time of the closure of the caravan tunnel when the track or tunnel is being rebuilt, and we must not forget that the mayors of the municipalities of Gorenje are asking, begging the government with two letters already, and the Slovenian Railways – Infrastructure that is mainly responsible for the safety, safety and security of rail, passenger and freight traffic along this route. It is therefore imperative to do these work and also to support our proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much. In fact, I am disturbed by this budget that if you look at what is in it for the railways, something has mainly fixed the freight routes and the second track. Everything else will stay the way it is. We have a single line between Ljubljana and Jesenica, we have a single line between Ljubljana and Maribor, we have railways that did not stay in the 20th century, but in the 19th century, what the data tells you, if you just go to see what travel times are like. For example, from Ljubljana to Maribor, a train to fight 125 km takes only on average two hours and thirty minutes. At the same time, they come from Brussels to London three times the distance. The ride there takes two hours and six minutes. It's half an hour shorter. From Ljubljana to Kopra you will drive for two hours and twenty-three minutes, from Brussels to Paris driving takes an hour and forty-four minutes, and the journey is three times longer. But if you want to come from Kopra to Maribor, it's an adventure. It will take you at least five hours, which is more than the current ride from Beijing to Shanghai, which has a thousand and a half miles. This is about the situation with us compared to the world situation. And now we get a budget, where this only route, which is really supposed to be updated and is suitable for passenger or mainly for passenger transport, is the mountain line, the loss of assets just before the present. It's just scandalous, embarrassing. I don't know how the government can even think about passing another term without trying to at least make sure that it doesn't serve us as a national disgrace. I will absolutely support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Mahnic still wanted a debate. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you. Why don't people use public transport? Because it's price-consuming and because it's time-consuming. And that's it. Why would I take the train from Ljubljana to Mirno kiln and spend an hour and twenty-five if I could take the car and spend thirty-five minutes? We know what the valley line is, and we know what the mountain line is like. Here's the secretary of state. She can say whatever she wants. I don't believe words, I believe acts; on the one hand we have words, on the other hand we have an action. The only amendment that has been tabled on the basis of all the calculations and also on the basis of what Crnac said earlier, what will be the trans-shipment, how many passengers will there be, how much for the upper line, how much will be given for the second track. Only these numbers will allow something to actually start to work on this track. But he told his colleague Kordish earlier what could be started, which is, say, a need if there are any other purchases or whatever it is, let's say, a problem in the Blaze South. And we know that Mrs Bratušek said that the priorities of this government are absolutely pervasive. But in the budget, we see that a lot of things are falling behind. That's why I'm going to support this amendment because I'm a local patriot, and I believe a lot of people are going to object. But look when some investment was made by this country in Gorenjska. For some regions, we even adopted special laws that went to money for so-called development. And we know what happened to that money or what didn't happen, and it should be. I don't want anything, but much has been invested in Eastern Slovenia, and I agree with that. If we're talking about some equivalent development. But I also think that Goreńska, which I believe is one of the regions most contributing in terms of GDP, is in terms of economic, economic indicators that Gorenja deserves something as well. We can't just talk about how we're going to regulate public transport, but when something concrete comes along, which obviously can unite us both on the right side and our colleagues on the left, then we're just looking for some excuses not to do that. You know, public transport, what happens now. There's a park and a ride building right behind Medni, in front of Ljubljana. Who's actually gonna use that? The only thing that will happen is that we will have another traffic light in front of Ljubljana and that the column will be up to Medvod or out. When the traffic lights were placed next to the industrial zone at the former guest in Yelen, the collapse in the morning is practically to Medna and beyond. Now the traffic will be even earlier, because of this park and ride, which people will not use anyway, because we know what Ljubljana's passenger traffic is like. All that will happen is that the column will move to Medvod or continue towards Jeprecha. In short, don't say that money can't be moved because it can be moved, and above all, something can be done on the basis of what can be done in the budget. That's how I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. A replica or a debate, Mr. Kordish? The debate, here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you. Perhaps another illustration, purely plastic, of the condition of the mountain line. Sometimes I come to work with a bicycle from Loka, in the National Assembly. And riding a bicycle is faster, consistent, than going to Škofja Loka on a train and getting off a train in Ljubljana and counting it all together. So, in the morning, when I get out of the house, and then when I come to the parliamentary door, all this logistics comes down to me less time if I ride a bike, than if my main means of transport is railway. This should tell you, colleagues and colleagues, why our amendments need to be supported and the mountain line updated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2550 – Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as a discussion on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme of support activities in the field of environmental policy and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one is offended to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for Water Management and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. We have tabled an amendment of €10 million for an urgent matter that we are constantly talking about and because we know that we are causing great economic and economic damage. The watercourses are not arranged as they should have been, as they used to be; there are reptiles, floods, damage is increasing. On many occasions, however, excuses can be found if climate change, storms, such, different ones, but more than not, the fact that the country is too active in this area, too little money is spent on it, or perhaps even enough money is spent, and too little work is done. The rods do not deepen, the branches do not retreat from the shafts and then pass to these great damage, both economic and economic, and then the owners wait for the country when it will come to their aid. Of course it does. Then the consequences need to be addressed, all of this costs, and many times these concessionaries do not respond and the ministry helps them with a bunch of excuses, and of course to this approach the congregation, then the local community is trying to sort it out. We therefore propose that this 10 million-euro amendment to regulate watercourses should also be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. If there is no further interest in the debate, we conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste management and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Housing activity and the three amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you. With the amendment, we are increasing housing funds to 0.4% of GDP. That's as much as you wrote in your coalition contract, which you haven't been implementing for the second year. So we're summarizing what you've committed yourself to, and you're not making this happen, and we're really surprised that the government doesn't support this amendment. On the day the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled the Housing Guarantee Scheme Act, we traced the news to the government's official Twitter account to devote EUR 184 million to combating climate change. We expected the government to respond to the harsh conditions of lending the population, particularly in the residential area, and instead we will receive news about the fight against climate change and 184 million euros for no concrete project. This is about concrete projects, dealing specifically with housing issues, especially those most difficult to resolve, these are young people and families with children. For this reason, we propose that you support the implementation of your own commitment in your own coalition contract, i.e. this amendment and raise housing funds to 0.4% of GDP.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and discussion on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Creation of Jobs and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of the Fellowship and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you. We don't have enough scholarship policy. State scholarships are intended to allow students from the most disadvantaged, the poorest environments and backwaters to study normally despite the unfairly low starting positions they have been given in a situation for which they are not themselves not responsible or responsible. However, according to a Eurostudent VI survey, after the last Eurostudent, if I take it into my hands, it takes EUR 250 per month for the student to survive. And I don't know if there's actually rent or anything in here. Well, the highest state scholarship is 190 euros, absolutely not enough to really help those most vulnerable students. An establishment in the field of scholarship policy is needed, an establishment that will not aim at a fire-free fire, but will allow students to engage in the course of the study in what they have to do with their studies. Because if you're forced to hunt three different student jobs, of course you're running out of time. Who will most often run out of time who will be most forced to look around for student employment – those students who are the most difficult to help or can't help them, or even these students have to go back to their families themselves. And the cycle of poverty and social stratification is done, closed: the poor remain poor and all social privileged positions are open to the rich. So if you support our amendment, we will raise the grant for these few million, make life easier for the students, and in this way we will take at least half a step forward towards social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Social Protection Programme and the 4 amendments of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. In a demographically endangered and sparsely populated municipality on the southern border of Loški Potok, they decided to prepare protected apartments for young families in one floor. A modest EUR 500 000 is needed for the preparation or implementation of this project, but this is an important project, because this is one way to stabilise the outflow of the population from the southern border to the larger centres. In short, I expect that by confirming this amendment, we will allow the congregation to do something for the protection or for the elderly and also for the preservation of the population in its local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Since there is no longer interest, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Long-term care and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors and the two amendments of the NSI Group. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. With this amendment, we open up what we have consistently opened in the last half of the year and because if I use the dictionary at that first session of May, which we referred to as problems in the homes for older citizens, she commented in her implementation by a fellow Member of the Servant: “This area is urgently, urgently, urgently, to be regulated.” I agree with it, and because this area is urgent, urgent, not only urgent, but three times urgently, we are sending an amendment so to speak to more resources to build quality public homes for older citizens. The situation in the country right now is that there are 54,000 requests for a bed at home, addressed to 11,000 people who want to get to bed, the state in this area has done nothing in 14 years and even at this point has no strategy to develop this area, at least to reach a zero. In this budgetary idea that we have on the table, 14 million are earmarked for this purpose during both years, which is enough for the infrastructure itself to fix a roof or some cosmetic repair. However, this is not a concrete sum that would open the door to the development of this sector despite the demographic picture. Coalition – you are repeatedly calling for dialogue. At this point, you have an opportunity for coalition Members to enter into a dialogue with a very constructive proposal. This isn't setting an ultimatum, our amendment is just a call for dialogue. Otherwise, if you look at the budget cut, the funds that could otherwise be allocated to this country-building programme or to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, for which there is still no assessment of how much it is actually going to cost, or to some repressive capture of the Owl, who is the jackpot recipient of this budget, or to the ammunition and ammunition of the Slovenian Army, which, in the morning, we have been discussing, is sending our people to Afghanistan to train their “security forces” to shoot civilians, and then we complain because they are fleeing to us as refugees and we also have to deal with them budgetaryly and solve this problem. This problem of all Members from all parts of the world is full of mouths. So once again, a very proactive, very creative idea comes with this amendment. As it is said, it opens the door to the construction of new homes, public homes that provide quality care for the growing population of older citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2711 – Ministry of Health of this debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on Health Management and Development and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Someone wants a word. If not, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Investment at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and discussion on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Research programmes and projects as well as the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr. Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In Levica, we keep reminding the Government that investment in development and research needs to be stepped up. We are, otherwise, if we add up the resources that the state invests and that private investors invest in development and research, somewhere near the EU average, 2% of all around, but if we look at the proportion of only public funds, we see that we are below average in Europe, and above all we are not approaching the goals that this government has set itself in the end. The government said in the coalition contract it was very nice to prepare society for a technological and development breakthrough. To this end, it is necessary to increase the resources for development and research to 1% of GDP, which means in the translation of 440 million – now we are somewhere in two-thirds of this, even after the adoption of the budget – and it continues to be necessary to achieve the objective of 3% of GDP for research and development purposes. In the next two years, which is essentially the duration of this budget, and in some ways most of the duration of this mandate, we will not approach. That's why we're trying to fix these targets in Levica by putting amendments under this point. Why are we doing this? I already told you. Well, there's one thing about preparing society for a breakthrough. We will not be able to rely forever on our companies as subcontractors primarily to the French and German automotive industries. I hope that the time will resonate when governments have relied on Slovenia as the main competent asset, the main competitive advantage of a cheaper labour force than, say, Austria or Germany and other countries of the centre. And if we want to go beyond these established patterns that we have now had for 20 years, we will have to invest significantly more in domestic development, invest significantly more in domestic personnel, and above all ensure that young people who unfortunately are still being pushed out of the country today can remain here. In 2016 we received information that the number of displaced young people has doubled since 2011. In the majority of people aged 25 to 34, 40% have higher or higher education. Why are they moving out? That's what we're trying to tell you in Levica all the time. The first and biggest problem is housing policy. In Slovenia, apartments are so rudely expensive that if you go now to see real estate.net, you will see that in Ljubljana they are already broadcasting 25-square wardrobes for 600 euros – only rent without cost. Which means more than half the average Slovenian salary. The other problem is transportation. If you can't afford an apartment in Ljubljana, but you could live, I don't know where, unfortunately, the country currently allows no other option than that you probably drive an hour or more to work in Ljubljana every day, and you spend half the time trapped in a ring. What's the solution? The solution to this is not to expand roads, but they do, as many traffic experts have already warned, for about three years, and then things get stuck again, but there is a solution to investing in public transport and railways. You can look into Western Europe how this is arranged. I used to talk about Berlin, Paris, Brussels, London and so on, where most people travel by public transport, by rail, by city, by city, even in Benelux, by bicycle. This should be our future, too, but unfortunately it's not. And the third factor why young people are moving out is that I am returning to our amendment, but of course the structure of the economy here, the services it allows. As long as we keep our economic model attached to the fact that we are subcontractors to more developed countries, the job supply here will be as much as it is; less paid than in neighbouring countries, even in the north, even half less paid, less interesting and especially for young intellectuals, for whom I have told you that they are leaving the country, they are not a challenge. However, if these young intellectuals want to work at public research institutes or universities, they will run into long waits, underpayments, academic surpluses and so on, which is directly linked to our amendment and is the answer to why we urgently need to accelerate investment in development and research. This is an investment in our future, and I hope that you will support our amendments to at least some of the government's objectives. I will certainly do this myself, and in the next two years, of course, I will work actively to find other resources to encourage these activities, which I have just listed, and to finally start to develop into a society that I think is something everyone in this room likes, but everything gets stuck when it comes to putting the budget together and the promises into numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Let's close up the infrastructure responses. Mr Ivanuša, you have previously challenged me about the road link Ormož-Gorišnica-Markovci and for the execution of two separate sections between Ormož and Gorišnica and between Gorišnica and Markovci. Unfortunately, these two sections are phased out, contact in Gorišnica in an area which does not allow functional use of one or another section if it were built in a time-segregated manner. As a result, Dars, or an investor of the opinion, advocates the view that both sections should be aligned, that both sections begin to be constructed simultaneously, in order for this section to be called Ormož-Gorišnica-Markovci, a functional whole. We met with representatives of Darsa and your fellow Members from SMC and LMŠ members in September, but unfortunately we were not able to reconcile our views at that time, so at the initiative of Mr Ivanus, I propose that we meet again in the future and try to reconcile these views with Dars in some way. That's what this is about. With regard to Levice's comment that the Ministry of Infrastructure wants to arrange or close the level crossing on the mountain line, the Ministry of Infrastructure does not cut down the level crossings or regulate them only on the nose. Level crossing arrangements are in the domain of the so-called Commission for Level crossings. The Commission shall be composed of experts from the Slovenian Railway-Infrastructure company, experts from the Railway Agency, the Transport Safety Agency and one representative from the Ministry of Infrastructure. The Commission shall decide which level crossings must be adequately protected, in what way they must be protected. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, a decision is also issued, and municipalities or local communities are also obliged to implement or enforce these decisions and therefore the Ministry does not close the level crossings. As for Mr Mahnič's comment, I am pleased that you judge us by our actions, not by our words. In the field of public passenger transport, a step forward has certainly been taken. This year, a joint, i.e. integrated ticket was introduced, and the status of disabled persons or athletes or subsidies for these user groups was regulated. In addition, we arranged transport, so to speak, a fully subsidised transport of pensioners – this will start in the following year, I think with 1. Seven. 2020. The Slovenian Railway Company receives 52 new sets, the first sets will start to be delivered for the month of December, so I am glad that you noticed these steps forward on public passenger transport. At the same time, let me express my support and appreciation for this true sustainable mobility – cycling is, however, a sustainable mobility that makes the smallest carbon impact, strengthens the spirit and body, and I am very glad that we have such a bit of a biker among Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have observed that the debate was not a debate on the amendment currently under consideration, but I have decided to give the Secretary of State my word that she might take her mind off some of the amendments that have been made because she has responded. Thank you so much for that comment. Mr. Ivanus, you have [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Kordish has the replica first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you. Madam Secretary, as we may not have understood each other, I know that the Commission is behind the closure of the level crossings, but the main political power house that is forcing this is the Ministry of Infrastructure. And let's be honest, even Slovenian railways here carry a certain part of the burden. But this concrete transition, which was under way on Monday in my question to Mrs Bratušek, this transition to Trata in Škofja Loka, I do not think this moment is the subject of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanuša, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u156	Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u157	Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u158	The Secretary of State would still have only a little bit of a feeling that she is inclined to settle this matter: against Ormož, against the Centre near Drava, against St. Tomaž and all the other municipalities that are plagued by this fast road, but here we have also received the thirst of Mr President of the Government to keep an eye on this project. [[…]] For Minister Alenka Bratušek, I feel that she is not the most favored, but I feel that you, the secretary of state, are still a little more inclined to do so. Anyway, the opinion is why this road has been running for 30 years, but I'd still like to hear it from you. Where are those problems, the mistakes that still don't make it live in construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. This concludes the discussion on both infrastructure projects and the amendment on the Research Programme and projects. We continue to discuss the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities and the amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education and the amendment of the leftist Group and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, the amendment of the leftist Group and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Anybody want a word? We are discussing the implementation of primary school programmes and the amendments of the SDS, Levica and NSI parliamentary groups. Mr. Brickler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you. I would like to say that Levica has proposed that the budget prepare funds to co-finance the necessary premises of primary schools and kindergartens in Slovenia, what has been done until 2011. In fact, we come from the demands and warnings of both schools, municipalities and the Ministry of Education itself from the Committee on Education, which was the thirteenth, recently. In Slovenian schools and kindergartens, there is already a lack of school space and, in particular, in urban centres, schools and municipalities, there are major problems with enrolment. In fact, the state, this is the Ministry, dictates standards and standards and thus spatial conditions for primary schools. However, those who have to finance this are municipalities, local communities, which the state does not give them large enough, for the first time, averages for this purpose. At the same time, I would like to say that all these school and kindergarten facilities must be maintained and functional. In my municipality, and this is only the average of Slovenia, there are 9 regular primary schools, a special school, a music school, a human university and 24 kindergarten units – all of this needs to be maintained. Where are you going to have investments for the new necessary facilities both for kindergartens and primary schools? Especially at the warning of the congregations and schools that there are 14 thousand,251 new elementary - school students, that is, 750 divisions. It needs to be invested. Mr Pikalo, Minister of Education, said that 75 million of the money needed is at stake. The municipalities themselves cannot guarantee this. And here the country has to come to the side of the municipalities, so Levica has proposed this amendment; in order to ensure the exercise of the right to primary education for children. Because if there's no room, it's just that school can't work. As far as kindergartens are concerned, I would like to say this; they are now, especially in urban centres, and probably in small congregations, there are great difficulties in having children into kindergartens if there is not enough room. On 1 September 2023, 4 square metres or at least 3 square metres per child should be provided according to the rules governing kindergarten spaces. If that's not the case and there's a school inspection, kindergarten is grounded. The way out of this is that fewer children are enrolled in existing kindergartens. Is this our step and positive words to young families toward children? Today is the world's day of children, children's rights, respected Minister of Finance! Therefore, I propose and please, representatives of all parties, consider supporting and supporting the amendment of the Left, as regards the additional investment by the State in primary and kindergarten spaces, because otherwise we will have significantly greater problems in 2023 and in two years, when these two budgets, which we are now talking about, will be significantly greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar don't want a word? Okay. Then we conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the Student Homes programme and the amendment of the Levica Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam President. 40,000 students in Ljubljana - 7,000 student beds. Good 10 000 students in Maribor – 2 000 500 student beds. This is a picture of the accommodation options that students have. This is appropriate, instead of normally settling in student homes, students turn to private people. However, the real estate market is catastrophic — that tenant’s nest, which owns all the apartments, propels rents to the sky and beyond. As a result, some students find themselves in hostels to study in whatever way they can. As in all other areas, in all other social problems, the problem will persist, unless we act politically. And the political measure is not a declared statement in the camera, but the figures we write in the budget are the concrete means to follow the commitment. Therefore, our increase in the budget for the construction of student homes directly contributes: for the first time, to making students easier to study, and for the second time, to at least a certain part of the young population, at least temporarily, to the housing issue. Not at the same time as students enrolled in colleges will be exposed to grooming of private people in this wild, unregulated hyperprofitable real estate market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and puts into discussion the sub-programme of the Programme and Development Tasks of sport and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. And we are moving on to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture and discussion on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, the archival and library activities and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget will be held in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes on Thursday, 21 November, that is to say tomorrow. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u164	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Very quickly, some numbers will be from the general work, but I think they're important. See, Expenditure on goods and services; in 2014, the country spent 650 million and in 2021 you planned one billion 62. One billion 62 and 650 million in 2014. So we're approaching half a billion more. I'll give you some numbers, and I'll tell you what, Mr. Secretary-General. I really don't know why we should spend 50 million more on office material in 2020 than in 2014 and why we should spend 50 million more on office material again in 2021 than in 2014. We already have 100 million euros here. Then you have in here Special materials and services – 218 million for 2021 and 84 million in this area we lost in 2014. And then you'll say we can't find money for the congregations. 136 million is the average for congregations. You, however, have a cost increase of almost half a billion in expenditure on goods and services here compared to 2014! For office material 100 million more! Tell me why you need office material in 2021 and 2020 for 87 million. 31 But you lost them in 2014 – because I like that you also listen to members of the coalition. Those are really numbers, I think, and then the minister comes along: if they don't, I'll step down. [[…]] Minister, then explain. We've come at a billion dollars, expenses for goods and services. Okay, the transport costs increase by 3.4 million, because there are more employees in total. But for office materials and special materials and services Then other operating expenses – for 2021 you put them on 307 million and in 2020 you only have 171 more. [[…]] Why will operational revenues increase, say, from 2020 to 2021 again by 150 million? But you don't have a bird here, I don't know, at least one million for something else. I'd really like to ask you here. You still have time for these explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much for this debate. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Your Honor, as I have told you in fact, has already answered the questions. on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, there was an increase in expenditure on office material already in 2019. High levels continue and increase in 2020. Total growth for this purpose is estimated to be 31 % higher in 2019 than in 2018 and 11 % higher in 2020 and 5 % higher in 2021. This is the most important part of EU planning. Indeed, this increase that you are exposing is the largest in the EU means where I explained to you that when these budgets are being prepared, so that you do not know exactly where the six-digit, four-digit account will be spent and that is why this money is then shown here. The biggest increases we have looked at where we planned to do so are for the following purposes: rent and renewal of permanent representation in Brussels, costs of diplomatic and consular representations, interstate cooperation, development of the national visa system, costs of preparing for the presidency, then resources – when you also mentioned this special material – for the operation of the Slovenian Army, training and exercises for the promotion of military profession, then implementation, information and promotion of agricultural and food products, rural development programme, bookkeeping on farms, maritime and fisheries, computer equipment of social work centres, management of real property, border crossing points, translation of legislation. I would like to say that in these 40, 20 accounts there are essentially also these corporate contracts for legal persons. That's how we explored this increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held tomorrow in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to four. Agenda item — Secondly, the proposal for a bill on measures in the field of wages and other costs of work in the public sector for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the Minister for a further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u168	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposed law lays down the legal basis for the measures agreed with the public sector unions in December 2018. At that time, it was agreed to gradually implement salary increases, to extend the measure relating to the payment of labour performance until 30 June 2020, and to extend the right to progress on 1 December of the current year. The proposed law also follows the content of work performance. Furthermore, the proposed law also provides for the amount of hospital absences, the way in which the jubilee awards are paid for officials and the possibility of extraordinary coordination of pensions and other benefits. It is said that the proposed law provides for the following: the amount of compensation which, in 2020 and 2021, belongs to officials for the period of absence from work due to a disease or injury not related to work. That arrangement had to be established in order to ensure the same position of officials and public servants. Furthermore, the way in which public sector jubilee awards are paid. In connection with the proposed arrangements, it should be clarified that, for public servants, the annexes to collective agreements of activities and professions provide that a public servant is to be awarded a jubilee award only if he has not yet received the award in the public sector for each jubilee. Taking into account the above, equal treatment should also be provided for officials, which means that an official may also receive a jubilee award for the same jubilee in public sector employers, but only if he has not received a common working age of 10, 20, 30 or 40 years in the public sector. Furthermore, restrictions on the payment of regular work performance for public servants and officials. With regard to the payment of regular work performance, we explain that in the agreement on salaries and other public sector labour costs, the Government and the representative public sector union agreed not to pay their regular work performance until 30 June 2020. For 2019, this restriction was regulated by the Annual Budget Implementation Act and should therefore also be regulated in the same way for the period until 30 June 2020. Furthermore, restrictions on the conclusion of agreements on the increased volume of work with public servants. As with regular work performance, this content after 30 June 2020 is covered in an agreement on salaries and other costs, labour costs in the public sector and slightly limited compared to the applicable rules. And extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2020, provided that 2.5% of economic growth is achieved this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u170	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Members, Members of Parliament! At its 25th urgent meeting on 15 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments were tabled by the Desus Group to Article 6, and subsequently the amendment withdrew, the coalition's parliamentary group also to Article 6 of the bill and the Levica Group to Article 6. The LMŠ, SD and SAB MPs have tabled an amendment to the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 6 of the bill. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance presented the objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill. He explained that the draft law lays down the legal basis for the measures agreed with the public sector unions in December 2018. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that the service had drawn up a written opinion which concluded that the provisions of the bill presented meant an extension of the measures which in the area of salaries were a stable way of regulating them since 2009. The proposal for a law means the continuation of wide-ranging legislation which infringes the principle of legal certainty, as it reduces the transparency of legal regulation. With regard to the amendments, she explained that the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB groups to the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups was changing the way in which pensions were reconciled in a way that, under the conditions of economic growth, these benefits would be increased nominally. This solution, however, deviates from the current percentage adjustment method, which provides for a percentage adjustment of the remuneration to the cost of living while maintaining the relationship between these recipients. In a discussion focused mainly on the content of the amendments tabled under Article 6 of the Law, some members and members of the Committee pointed out that 18% of all pensioners live below the poverty line and that the fixing of nominal amounts for extraordinary reconciliation of pensions would contribute to reducing the differences between pensioners. By establishing the nominal amount of emergency coordination, the social justice objective would be pursued and the measure would be fiscally neutral. In the view of some other members and members, the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions when the proposed amendment to the amendment is adopted would ensure that pensions are adjusted primarily to increase the cost of living equally for all pensioners. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has highlighted some concerns about the amendment tabled above all from the perspective of the functioning of the amendment in view of the different status that pensioners may have in the current system. In accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of the LMŠ, SD and SAB to the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 6. The Committee also adopted an amendment to the draft law of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 6. Therefore, the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 6 of the bill became irrelevant. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a law is part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He'll be the first to do it. Andrej Reich presented the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! In mid-September, Umar estimated that economic growth would calm down and remain at 2.8% for the next two years. The latter is a reflection of the slowdown of economic growth in trading partners and the deterioration of expectations by the end of the year. With a proposal for the volume of government budget expenditure, it reduces by 100 million euros. By 30 June of next year, public servants and officials are thus not entitled to part of the salary for regular work performance, and the maximum amount of compensation is also reduced with the increase in the amount of work. The amount of compensation for the absence of sick leave at the burden of the employer will also be set at 80% for officials. Furthermore, restrictions on jubilee awards will be maintained. The bill thus prolongs some of the already established wage measures in the public sector. Allow me, however, to touch on the most important part of the bill, the proposal for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2020, with a growth of 2.5% by 1%. In the SAB Group, we supported this complement, of course, and supported it with our own proposal, which received sufficient support at the hearing at the home work body. A graphic representation of the SAB proposal and the current way of extraordinary coordination of pensions can also be seen on the screens in the hall. In the SAB, we have proposed that, in the case of 2.5% of economic growth, the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2020 should be carried out nominally and thus in the same amount for all pensioners. Our proposal, which has no additional financial implications, pursues the objective of social justice and is intended solely to ensure that the differences between pensioners do not increase. If pensions were to be brought together in the same amount for all pensioners, they would gradually raise the pensions of the poorest pensioners. According to the latest data, SURS has an estimated 89,000 pensioners living below the poverty risk threshold, of which more than 60% are women. With our proposal, the socially weak pensioners would move up. A pensioner who has 218 euros in pension and would have received 24 euros a year on the initial proposal would have received 78 euros a year, according to our proposal. A pensioner who has a thousand euros in pension and would receive 120 euros a year on the initial proposal would also receive 78 euros at the end of the year, according to our proposal. In accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, one of the conditions for extraordinary reconciliation of pensions with sufficient economic growth is the consent of the Government. Therefore, without the Government’s consent, the implementation of the reconciliation of pensions cannot be carried out. This is a significant difference between regular and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. Regular coordination is mandatory and remains as a percentage of the progressive scale, which means it preserves the real value of pensions. In fact, extreme coordination is like some kind of reward when the country is doing well. That is why it seems appropriate for us to reward all pensioners in the same amount. For, as the Government may decide whether an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions can be carried out, in our view, it can also decide in what way and in what amount the latter will be paid. We understand the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service and some who, due to the same amount for all pensioners, feel deprived of their pensions at the time of extraordinary reconciliation. At the same time, however, we understand those who are deprived of their own income every day and whose own income is not enough for their basic survival. Our idea is to provide help and encouragement to those most in need. This argument prevails in our eyes. Let me add that we have collected verifiable data and figures on how many pensioners have already received in the course of regular coordination of pensions in March this year and how much they will receive with the next three harmonisations by the end of 2020. A graphic presentation on the screens shows that a pensioner with 218 euros of pensions from March to December 2020 will receive a total of 23 euros on the basis of the SAB proposal and 19 on the basis of the current proposal. On the other hand, a pensioner with a thousand euros of pension would jointly receive 83.5 euros on the basis of the SAB proposal and 87 euros on the basis of the current proposal. As we say, the sole purpose of our proposal is that the differences between pensioners do not increase. We will unanimously support the bill in the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you so much for this vivid presentation of your position. The next Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Public sector labour costs measures are the primary objective: to reduce government budget expenditure by €38 million and to reduce the country's spending by €64 million within the public sector. Officials shall be restricted to the payment of the amount of the sickness allowance and the payment of the jubilee awards, public servants and officials by the end of June of the following year shall be prevented from paying the regular work salary and shall severely reduce the payment of work performance on the basis of the increased work volume. The essential component of the law is the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions for Desus. In Slovenia, it is very much forgotten that due to the economic crisis coordination of pensions, the work was frozen in 2010 and 2011 and completely frozen in 2012, 2014 and 2015. In particular, as a result of the freezing and partial freezing of pension coordination, there has been a relatively significant reduction in the ratio between the average net age pension and the average net salary in the period up to 2010. The backlog in coordination has not yet been fully resolved – the difference is 7.2% and due to an extraordinary co-ordination of 1.5% in December it will decrease to 5.6%. In its autumn macroeconomic forecast, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development reduced the growth forecast from 3.4% to 2.8% of GDP. Initially, it was envisaged that pensions at 3% growth in 2019 would be extremely harmonised by 1%, which could also constitute a possibility of non-compliance in the event of non-compliance. Members of the Desus Group, with the amendment tabled at the beginning of October, wanted to maintain extraordinary harmonisation, with the proposal to reduce the lower threshold as a condition for payment by half percentage points, from 3% to 2 1/2. Gradually, our proposal was also accepted by the other coalition parties, but not for too long, since three of them, with the amendment to the amendment, proposed that extraordinary harmonisation be carried out, but not by a percentage, but by an absolute amount, for everyone alike. The decision was also made on the home work body with only one vote against — Desus’s voice. I voted against it myself. The fact is that our pension system is designed so that a little bit of injustice that appears in the labour market cannot be completely erased. The question is whether a substantial greater emphasis on solidarity in the pension system could jeopardise its other important constitutional element – the dependency of pensions on contributions paid. In particular, such dependence provides broad social support to the public pension system. All past pension reforms in Slovenia have taken quite happily into account both basic elements and this is also a fundamental dilemma for the future – in what ways to ensure solidarity in the system and in what ways to strengthen social support for the public pension system? The change relativising the amount of contributions paid means interfering with fundamental principles, and it is not possible and must not be overlooked that even during the crisis all pensioners were not equally deprived of the lump sum, but rather as a percentage. In the Desus Group, we believe that the social situation of pensioners should be resolved differently. In particular, by raising minimum pensions, we should ensure that the full-time pension should not be placed below the poverty threshold and, for example, another example, the annual allowance set out in the fifth grade due to Desus' persistence. We believe that this is fairer because in this way the social situation of the recipients of pensions is taken more into account. The fact is that a pensioner with a pension of up to EUR 500 in 2020 will receive an annual allowance of EUR 310 higher than the annual allowance to be received by a pensioner with a pension of more than EUR 860. We are in the Desus Group together with colleagues from the Modern Centre Party Group co-signatures of the amendment proposal for extraordinary coordination of pensions as a percentage, because we are confident of the highest priority of the dependency on the amount of pensions paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Umar reports that economic growth is dying faster than originally planned cooling. In Slovenia, there was again a negative climate. There is a growing talk of a new crisis. We also hear information about major pardons, which no one knows whether they hold or not. So I'm asking the government representatives to let people know what's going on. The government has this power to calm the public through its messages. However, if worse times are to come, let the government make it clear that people will prepare in time. In its assessment of the situation, the government stated that expenditure growth should be curbed in those categories that increase beyond the reasonable limit. Yeah, who's allowing that? The government. I hope that the President of the Government or the Minister of Finance will tell you which categories of budgetary users these are, and above all I expect that this unreasonable increase in expenditure will plague. Instead of cutting public spending, the Ministry of Finance is increasing it. Everyone knows that. However, if expenditure is already increasing, it should be increased in investment, for example in infrastructure. The bill also states that public sector wage expenditure has risen rapidly. Why is that? Do we have a better public sector? Do they do anything else? Did anyone get the Nobel Prize from them? Has anyone, then, made any inventions? We have a number of public employees who regularly receive work performance allowances and add-ons for an increased workload. Who's controlling them? No one, but they're rated. How, though, do their results show up in practice? Long waiting periods in health care, long queues in administrative units, when we call state authorities, they have phone calls. In case anyone picks up, they don't know anything and they tie you up from one employee to the next, the line ends. The official hours are exceptionally Wednesdays, but even then they are not so long that all citizens, citizens, can come to the administrative unit and to the municipality and are mostly open to citizens in the morning. Staff members have been dragging all procedures for unreasonable lengths, asking people for different information, which is easier to come by themselves. Some civil servants still do not know how to heat after the ZUP or respect the deadlines for issuing decisions, so they can only respond in time. People complain that the supervisory authorities punish them with high fines for small offences and, on the other hand, the supervisory authorities do not act in certain individuals who are considered untouchable. The courts have been judging certain cases for years if you're lucky, and you get an illegal verdict. The government also refers to raising the salaries of doctors. May I ask why the doctors' salaries have risen? But what kind of waiting line has been cut short? Do you know how to shorten the waiting line? We have good cases in Lidl, in Hofr and there quickly empty cash registers and there are no waiting rows. If there's too many people, then it closes. Waiting types are not reduced by rising wages, but by better organisation. I don't know if the Minister of Health has ever heard of optimisation of processes and, last but not least, we have raised funding for doctors in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u178	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The proposed law sets out the amount of compensation due to non-work-related illness or injury to officials for the period of absence from work in 2020 and 2021. The way in which public sector jubilee awards are paid, restrictions on the payment of regular work performance for civil servants and officials, restrictions on the conclusion of agreements on increased work with civil servants and extraordinary coordination of pensions in 2020. In the SDS Group, only this would be highlighted by the fact that the serious extraordinary reconciliation of pensions for pensioners was in 2008. This means when John Janša’s government was. We will not oppose the proposed amendments to the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u180	Dear colleagues, representatives of the government, Vice President! In September this year, Umar briefed the Government on the autumn forecast of economic trends, which, compared to the spring forecast for 2019 and 2020, indicates a calming of economic growth according to the original planned. The new autumn forecast is a new fact in the preparation of the country's budget. In the event of non-response, the achievement of the public financial objectives of the four public funds can be jeopardised after the cash flow and the forecast has a significant impact on the state sector. As a result of the increased risk, a decision was therefore taken to reduce budget expenditure by EUR 100 million for 2020. The basic objective of the law under consideration is thus to legalise solutions that will enable the country's budgets for 2020 and 2021 to be implemented in an ongoing and smooth manner. The adoption of the proposed law is necessary because, in order to ensure medium-term balance of budgets, expenditure needs to be limited. The proposed law therefore sets out the amount of the compensation, which in 2020 and 2021 belongs to officials for the period of absence from work due to sickness or injury unrelated to work, the manner in which the public sector jubilee awards are paid, the restrictions on the payment of regular work performance for public servants and officials, the restrictions on the conclusion of agreements on the increase of work with public servants and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2020. In doing so, we have tabled an amendment to the pensioners' concerns, which ensures extraordinary harmonisation in 2020 already if the economic growth for 2019 exceeds 2.5% of GDP, thereby ensuring that pensions are adjusted mainly to increase living costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you, Vice President, Government Representative, distinguished colleague and colleague! Proposal for a Law on measures in the field of labour costs in the public sector and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions The National Assembly shall adopt for the first time in the framework of budgetary treatment. Although its provisions were a constant of budgetary treatments, they have been included in the annual budget implementation law in recent years. At the time of its annual consideration of the law on the implementation of the budget, the Legislative and Legal Service has regularly pointed out that it does not consist of provisions derogating from the rules in force and exceptional measures intended to limit certain costs. For this reason, the Government has decided this year to propose an additional law in addition to the budget and the law on the implementation of the budget. It shall draw up those provisions and measures which constitute an additional limitation of expenditure in order to take account of the fiscal framework. Much of the law thus binds itself to limiting labour costs in the public sector, partly due to the restrictions still in force in the past and partly due to the adaptation of the fiscal framework. For example, this law aligns the payment of hospital leave for officials and other public servants and regulates the payment of jubilee awards. The law is also transposed last year by an agreement between the Government and the public sector trade unions, which provides that regular work performance is not paid by the end of June next year. In addition, the provisions on the limited payment of labour performance on the basis of the increased labour volume are harmonised with trade unions. The article, which will and will trigger the most debates, provides for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. The Sectoral Law provides for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions if macroeconomic conditions are met, the most important of which is economic growth. The original proposal of the Government has already changed the introduction of the budget proposal into the National Assembly. In the face of less favourable economic growth forecasts for next year, the government has decided to propose extraordinary reconciliation of pensions only if the economic growth achieved in this year exceeds 3%. Members and members of the coalition responded first and proposed an amendment with which extraordinary harmonisation would also take place if economic growth was higher than 2.5%. Finally, the Maternal Committee adopted a supplement setting out, instead of a percentage, the amount to be received by all pensioners at the same level if the conditions were met. The Committee has reasoned that harmonisation in the same amount for all constitutes a more appropriate response, as pensioners are in this way in line with price increases, without constantly increasing the difference between the lowest and the highest pensions. It is also because of this argument that the Social Democrats have supported this amendment, as the principle that pensions are linked to paid contributions is already taken into account in the regular harmonisation of pensions. The solution, supported by the parental committee, ensures that most of the total amount of emergency coordination will go to pensioners with the lowest pensions. Part of the Members and Members object to this and believe that extraordinary reconciliation of pensions should also take place only as a percentage of the current pension. Indeed, such a system takes greater account of the principle of pension dependency than the contributions paid, but also the disproportionately higher share of the total amount transfers to higher-retirement pensioners. Given the structure of Slovenian pensioners who generally receive very low monthly pensions, the Social Democrats tend to support a solution already adopted by the Committee on Finance and to harmonise pensions in the same amount for all who will bring more to those with the lowest pensions. Otherwise, honourable colleagues and colleagues, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Monika Gregorčič to present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u184	Your Honor! This government bill is part of a budget package that limits certain payments in the field of public sector wages. Since public servants’ salaries obligations have a significant financial impact, the payments of certain harmonisations and promotions are deferred to later periods, in agreement with the unions. Without these restrictions, expenditure on public servants' salaries would increase excessively over the next two years and threaten public financial stability. On the other hand, the law also regulates the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in December 2020. Coalition agreements on the conditions and height of this extraordinary coordination took place in front of the public. However, individual coalition partners have just competed to offer a more attractive proposal. In the SMC, we primarily wanted to follow the coalition agreement that additional extraordinary coordination of pensions would be linked to 3% economic growth, but later, due to a worsening economic forecast, this border fell to 2.8% first. We have also agreed in the SMC to such revised conditions of extraordinary harmonisation. We are aware that pensioners were also among the most disadvantaged during the crisis. However, we would like to emphasise that extraordinary harmonisation is intended to reduce the differences between pension payments and the amount that would belong to pensioners if pensions were to be harmonised on a regular basis in previous years. Therefore, we could not support the proposal to make extraordinary harmonisation in absolute terms. While the proposal received majority support at the Committee on Finance's meeting, we were surprised at the incredible ease of decision-making by the entire opposition, which, without major professional concerns, attached its populisms to the higher prices of bread and milk for all. What's this all about? In order to substantially change the way in which pensions are to be reconciled in extraordinary ways. After the current proposal, pensions would increase nominally by at least 6.5 euros in absolute value for all pensioners equally. But in the SMC Group we join the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service about the possible unconstitutionality of such a solution and the concerns of the Ministry of Field Affairs. We note that there is a non-systematic, nonconstant shift from the current way of coordination as a percentage. All existing pension relations are being broken down and a balance sheet is being introduced into the system in the area of past work evaluation. This is also a negative signal for all still active workers who contribute to the pension system. In the end, this can even lead to an increase in the grey economy. The same denominator is used by all pensioners, regardless of the amount and duration of their payments to the pension system, which is by no means fair. The reconciliation of pensions is indeed aimed at adjusting the price of living costs, but must also maintain the relationship between pensions. For pensioners with relatively higher pensions also suffered greater losses due to past proportional austerity measures. It is true that the prices of all goods are reflected in the same way, but the true proponent of social imbalances cannot and cannot be a pension system. There's a system of social transfers. It is recalled that the solution adopted constitutes a derogation from the insurance principle of pension insurance and undermines the relationship between pension age and the amount of contributions paid. This, of course, is at first sight a very populist and attractive proposal. But only at first sight. On the other hand, when at least some professional consideration is made, such a measure brings negative messages mainly to future pensioners. Why would all of us work together for 40 years, pay contributions to the pension fund, if one day the state can decide that we will all receive the same? Regardless of all, in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we are aware that the implementation of this law is linked to the budgets for 2020 and 2021, so we will support the law. However, we have also tabled an amendment with the Desus Group, which restores the system to the initial coordination framework as a percentage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. Again, we are there when every measure where those who have more are not well rewarded, but more rewarded are those who have less or even the same, so marked as populist. I don't look at it that way. Given that we have almost a third of the pensioners in Slovenia, out of 268,000 pensioners or people under the poverty threshold, it is essential that the situation first be corrected for people who have worked and live below the poverty risk threshold. Why did such a situation arise? Here it is possible to stretch the clock a little bit and see what has happened in recent years. In the years 2010 to 2017, pensions were thus not coordinated due to savings. As a result, the total amount paid today is around €319 million less than it would have been if they had been coordinated. We're still down 319 million euros. And if we look at what the greatest achievement of this budget, as Minister Bertonzel and Prime Minister say, is the real surplus, the fact that we have an surplus in the budget, and we ask ourselves where this surplus comes from, you will respond to a large part of the story if you compare how much the budget contributed to pensions 5 years ago and how much it will contribute next year. Be careful – the difference is €600 million. Five years ago, he contributed 600 million euros more to pensions than he will contribute next year. Thus, the surplus with which the prime minister and the finance minister are treated is, in some ways, a good deal of the backing of the State's pension or underfunding. That's the first one. In Levica, we have proposed a series of amendments with which to reconcile pensions with extraordinary proportions, more than the Government would have done. However, it is crucial, and we have been stressing this for the past year to find an additional source of pensions, specifically in the coalition contract there is an increase in the pension and disability rates for employers by 0.8 percentage points per year, four times, saying 3.2% in total. This would generate some of these funds currently lacking in the pension register so that all full-time pensioners could draw above the poverty risk threshold. That's what I think we should do as soon as possible. Now if I go to the other side, it's called ZUPJS, it's pay. Here is my comment: we still have the ZUPJS heritage of ZUJF, the Law on Public Finance Coordination, we still have in-house austerity measures, which are visible in the fact that it was not acceptable for the Ministry to devote between €38 million and €64 million, which would have been necessary in order to remunerate workers in the public sector after 10 years, with the payment of regular work performance, so this 38 to 64 million could not be found; on the other hand, the problem was not to give 135 million for the tax discharge of a few percent of the best paid. Here again you can see who is being rewarded and who is not. That's my last comment. When I listened to the debates of other Members, there were not many mentions of such a demeaning attitude towards employees in the public sector; if, what do they know, who does anything there. See, health and education are highly productive activities of every society. Just because we want to give everyone equal access to them, this company has decided to pay them out of taxes. If we want to be a successful society, we will probably have to devote more to these activities. If you look across Europe, look at which countries are more successful. Generally, those who invest more in education and have a larger public sector at all are more successful. However, if I can be a picker for the end – why more investment should be made in these activities, it also shows that most of these Members who are here making a fuss over public servants who, in order for them to know nothing, are barely able to read the letter they have before them. We will not support the law for the stated reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you very much. As the last Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats are in favour of the complementary proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for the next two years and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. We'll support the marriage. What is the gross wage in the public sector at annual level, perhaps a little later. However, it is perfectly normal that this mass of gross wages is extremely high and it is necessary to limit public sector wage expenditure by law. These have increased significantly over the past two years and solutions are being proposed to enable the current and smooth implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021. The proposed law lays down restrictions on the payment of regular work performance for public servants and officials, restrictions on the conclusion of agreements on increased work with public servants, the amount of compensation that is due to officials for the period of absence from work due to illness or injury in 2020, the manner in which the public sector jubilee awards are paid and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2020. We in New Slovenia ask ourselves, for example, whether in the field of health, where there have been several annexes, additional arrangements, whether these annexes are now, these additional arrangements included in this volume of gross wages – of course also depends on the budget of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute – regarding the sustainability of the single wage system in the public sector and whether it is even harmonised, whether it is still uniform, but, of course, there is a great question if we are just comparing health care with some arrangements and annexes and education. But that's probably not the topic of discussion today. I would like to say to the Slovenian public that the gross wage in 2018, according to the year before 2017, rose by 4.3%. However, I calculated the gross wage projection for 2019 – this is expected to increase by 8.1% in 2018 and the figures are as follows: in 2017, the State of Slovenia provided 3 000 723 million euros for public sector wages, then in 2018, 3 000 883 million euros and, as it is said, after the projection for this year, the gross wage in the public sector will reach around EUR 4.2 billion. Fantastic numbers. And now for the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. We supported the proposal put forward by LMŠ, Social Democrats and Alenka Bratušek. Previously, we saw that the amendment was tabled only by Alenka Bratusek, and we didn't see it on the board. We have estimated, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be good for those who have the least to get only a certain amount, that is to say €6 and a half. We have assessed that this solution is a good one, so we have also supported the amendment of these parties and, as it is said, we will support the amended proposal of the law. Perhaps to conclude just this, ladies and gentlemen, we do not claim in Novi Slovenije that wages in the public sector are too high. We don't say they're too tall. However, we say that we are not rationally organised, that we are not economically organised and that we will simply not be able to move on. The Slovenian economy will no longer be able to secure such a mass of wages for the public sector. We have digitisation, we have technology at our disposal, and we just don't know how to use it. Procedures need to be simplified, they can be maximized if you want to digitise, and the country can be cheapened. Our country is too expensive, so it won't go any further, if I'm wrong, we'll see it, and I hope we don't actually get into a deep recession again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to Article 6. So I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group Members. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I see it's an interest, so I'm going to open up the application. Please sign up. Check-in is on. We've got six interviewees reported. The first one gets the word, Mr. Luka Mesec, is prepared by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much. As you know, the topic of the amendment is whether it will withstand the amendment proposed by the SAB, after which each pensioner would receive, regardless of the amount of his pension, six and a half euros per month annually, or whether he will endure the initial coalition plan, which would give him a percentage, which means, of course, that those who have higher pensions will get more, those who have smaller pensions will get less. If I quickly begin to define myself to this point, we will oppose the reversal of this amendment back to the first proposal of the coalition, because we agree that we need to ensure that everyone gets the same or should first ensure that the pensioners below the poverty threshold rise above the poverty threshold and in this respect the solution proposed by the Sab Party is closer to us. But you have to say we're arguing about change here. Just six and a half euros is six and a half euros. This practically will not change his social situation for any pensioner in any way, if you would like to seriously correct the situation among pensioners, you had the opportunity 14 days ago to vote on the Committee on the abolition of supplementary health insurance. It was a measure that would bring every pensioner more, thirty euros per month, 360 euros per year. This is already some amount, which means something, this is one item that we now have to pay from their net income and we could get rid of it, but now we are those thirty euros, which would be very cheap for the budget, we have drawn up legislation that would cost only 69 million euros, and the health department would even be a hundred euros plus. According to our proposal, the real budget, if we were looking at all the cashiers, would be in plus, and every pensioner would get a 30-euro monthly unloading or a 360-euro annual unloading, but this is not on the table anymore, and I'm actually negotiating change here. About six euros and a half per pensioner, which is why you're now going to move into a coalition. I'm not even going to argue about it, but I just want to say it's six and a half euros and it won't bring about a major change. It will be necessary to reconsider the abolition of supplementary health insurance, once again on the Committee on 27 November, if the coalition changes its view by then, our law, which it repeals, allows us to leave the financial part open and agree on the finances until 2021 when the matter enters into force. Another systemic measure that should be implemented is to improve the social situation of pensioners, to consider the contribution of employers. Now, you know that pensioners contribute 15.5% of their gross salary, while employers contribute 8.85%, says almost half less. This was reduced practically overnight in 1996; since then, after some calculations, there has been a Circus of 10 billion euros missing from the pension register just because of this measure. If we are to put the pension allowance back on our feet, ensure that all pensioners can begin to receive decent pensions, it will be necessary to consider at least a partial refund of this contribution to the amount where it was before 1996. In the coalition contract there is an extension for this, a four-time raise of 0.8%, which is a 3.2% increase in four years. It is a process for businesses to adapt and thus get the necessary millions of euros to ensure the sustainability of the pension allowance on the one hand and the pensioners who will not play poverty after 40 years of work, on the other hand. That's how much I'd say for starters.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kramar has the floor and Mr Branko Simonovic is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am one of those who, of course, supported the amendment tabled by Alenka Bratušek and the other coalition partners. You need to know; what Luke said is true, 6.5 looks small, it's change for someone. But for someone who has 218 euros in pension, 6.5 euros means something. And if he gets it every month, he gets 78 euros a year. However, if we take this into account that in March it was already a reconciliation of pensions and that now in December it would be an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, then in March 2020 it would be a regular reconciliation of pensions, so that the calculation we made for someone today receiving 650 euros in pensions: it received 17.6 euros in March, then it will now receive 9.8 euros in December and then again in March the regular alignment of 22.8 euros, and if our amendment is adopted, it will receive a further 6.5 euros at the end of the year and so on throughout the year. It is true that these amounts will be paid in December for the extraordinary coordination to be paid in December, until then these regular coordinations will be held. But this is because it is really necessary to know that the population of pensioners is, even on the periphery Here we still have to separate the periphery from the capital or major cities where the services are substantially better paid than on the periphery, even many farmers are on the periphery, receiving a farmer's pension. [[…]] This difference between the periphery and the capital is great. You know, if someone worked 40 years and went to retirement, today they're receiving 530 euros in pension. This will be the case every month for 6.5 euros; at the end of the year it will have more than 79 euros with exceptional harmonisation, in addition to the harmonisations I have previously discussed. It is said that it is unfair because some have invested more in the pension system. Yeah, that's why they have higher pensions. Therefore, all other coordinations, based on percentages, are not based on nominal values. The only one that seemed fair to us was someone who also had EUR 218 in pension, who received 5.9 euros in March, who will now receive 3.3 euros in December, which will receive another 7.6 euros in March 2020, and by the end of 6.5 euros in year, his pension will in reality rise by 16.8 euros each month. And that's why we think it's fair. I also believe that I'm following the debate in the media, in the newspapers, that there's a balance sheet, that it's socialist, and I don't know what else. Why? Because we're giving the kid something more than the big one. The columns in the newspapers are written by people who have pensions higher than what Karl Erjavec - a thousand euros - promised them - have higher, have 2,000 euros in pensions. And if it were not as we suggest, but the original proposal would be in place, the one with EUR 2 000 pension is 240 and the one with the lowest 24 euros and the other with EUR 60 in 500. This adds to the difference between pensioners. I therefore call on all of you to support the proposal that these pensions be paid nominally for all the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you. Just to be clear, I would like to say that I absolutely agree with what you have said. I think it's completely depressed to talk about populism, because I've heard a few MEPs talk a lot lately in this way, that it's practically populist everything, as Franz Kramar said nicely, when it's given to a little man with less money, not to someone who's already so rich and powerful. [[…]] If it's for the little ones, then we're populism. If we're going to the source of the word populism, it's true. But the populism is the original policy that works for the people, but the populism, the populism, we work for the people. You can, but what you're trying to say because populism is now a quantifier, is that these are some unrealistic policies, harmful policies that someone is only pursuing to gain political points, as they are called. But, as we say, you can't just say that all that goes for most of the population is populism. It just doesn't hold. We're all here to work primarily for the well-being of everyone. For everyone's sake, because after all you've had it in the SMC, which is the word you like best in your voting slogan: Good for everyone. Get on with it! Secondly, if I may answer that about the balance sheet, because I also think that this fear is entirely unjustifiable because the dose is for the pension from the salary. When a person receives a salary dose, then he or she adjusts to the percentage of the pension, the differences are only increasing from then on. If we look at how it moves away from wages and how there is a difference between pensioners, I think that even if we systematically change the reconciliation of pensions to nominal ones, it would be more just and lastingly sustainable than the current model, when it is coordinated by percentage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Branko Simonovic has the floor and Mr Igor Zorčič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. It should be noted that with exceptional coordination, the pensioner returns what has been taken away from them over the past ten years. Due to the fact that pensions are not at all or only partially regularly coordinated and are still 7.2% lower than they would have been if pensions were to be harmonised under the system law ZPIZ-2. This is a return under Articles 105 and 106 of the ZPIZ-2, which is said to be a systemic law, is the harmonisation of pensions aimed at maintaining their value and must be expressed as a percentage, as otherwise it may jeopardise the existing pension system. The amendment, which was submitted to the SMC and Desus Group of Members, is supported by the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Civil Initiative for Retired Persons, the Trade Council of the Alliance of Retired Persons, which as the largest representative organisation represents the interests of civil society of the elderly and, in particular, pensioners. I am confident that by adopting the proposed extraordinary coordination of pensions in the nominal amount, as proposed in the law, they would break the foundations of the pension system. And I will also allow myself to read the last paragraph that was sent to me from the Professional Council of the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia. We believe, I quote, "that we do not demand too much when we demand the exercise of the rights that our beneficiaries of pensions belong to on the basis of past work and contributions paid. However, extraordinary coordination must be expressed as a percentage.” They added that "social problems must be resolved in a different way and in accordance with positive legislation on social rights and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia". I'm sure I'll support this amendment myself, and I won't allow any populism purposes to cause us to break the system's laws. Last but not least, if we accept it as proposed, we overrun paragraphs 105 and 106 of the ZPIZ-2 Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič now has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In recent days, many words have been said about the budget as the most important document, on the accompanying laws and on the full responsibility of the National Assembly in adopting them. We in the SMC Group are surprised by this, let's say, policy of mind on some issues that are crucial to the functioning of the country itself, i.e. key to the pension system. The fact is that in Slovenia we have a system of pensions based on the amount of contributions paid and the length of the insurance period. If we accept or do not accept today or tomorrow the amendment that corrects the matter by aligning pensions with percentages, then we may collapse the system. Imagine someone, or two neighbors, who both have the same pension base, one worked 19 years, the other 20 years. The law says that they both get a pension in different percentages, so one will have a slightly higher pension than the other, and that after they both retire, there will be some extraordinary reconciliation of pensions in this way, as is readily available here today. You know what's gonna happen? The one who's been on the job for a year will wonder if he was a fool. In fact, we are entering uncertainty and mistrust into a system that is built in that there is always a need for trust. It will happen to us that, with such extraordinary reconciliations of pensions in some nominal amounts, which undermine the relations that are enshrined in the law and which everyone is counting on, in fact, young people, those who are working today, to turn them away from whether they are being questioned about whether they should be paid — even those who are espaes and decide for themselves whether to pay the amount of the contribution — whether they should be paid into this system or not. So, I don't think that's what this is about – my colleague Luke mentioned earlier that we're talking about change, he was targeting whether we're talking about whether there's going to be harmonisation for someone with 500 euros of pension for 5 euros or 6.5 euros, and given that it's a 1.5 euro difference, it's really a change. But we're not talking about, we're talking about whether we're going to keep a system like this today, we're going to keep it, we're going to upgrade it, or whether we're going to encourage people who are employees to pay in this system, or whether we're going to blow it up, and maybe we're going to put it on a new one sometime. There were a lot of simplified solutions to be heard in terms of, yes, look, we need to raise it, so it would be fair, the bread has been equally irritated for all. You know, when those who are already one way or another, because they had higher wages and paid more into this system, the bread for them was no more expensive. Even though they put in the same system, which then went for pensions, they could give twice, three times, or four times as many as some. And that at the same time they worked for a substantial length of time. So, I say, Slovenians, we know for ourselves, but I believe that there is some truth in this – a good nation, but we still have a lot of people among pensioners who have not worked 40 years of work and the goal of the state and the whole pension system must be to reward people if they work longer if they contribute to this system longer. And if they contribute more. Because of the fact that more money will be in the system, more will eventually be possible to distribute it. I am convinced that the solution to these nominal amounts undermines those relations that are enshrined in the law. I am sure that this is why it is an unconstitutional harmonisation, that this is not a harmonisation at all, but that is a non-conformity of pensions. I'm sure we'll have our pensions uncoordinated so far. Those, therefore, who in the past have given more, their pensions, will, in proportion to others, slowly stop without any serious consideration as to why. After some calculation they'll be able to figure out that they've been working too hard, and I'm sure we're putting some new mistrust into this system that means decomposition in the long run. Today, everyone, even those I mentioned who decide their salaries, their contributions, can ask if they are still worth it. Because today we have the first such extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, such unconstitutional and illegal, because the law states that only a percentage of them are aligned, just in another article. Next year we'll have another, maybe there'll be two, maybe there'll be an election, we'll have four, eight, whatever you want. This will continue and the pension system, as we know it, will be over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Get Janja the Servant ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u200	Vice President, thank you for your word. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! I have no problem not to support that those who have little more. I don't have those problems. But this story is something else. That's probably what we need to clear up between ourselves. Thus, in 2012, we accepted ZPIZ-2, where certain things are also written down and certain things define everything, so it also writes according to the principle of what pensions are coordinated. And someone today sums up the percentages of extraordinary and regular reconciliations, and they say that these are increases in pensions, and they're very wrong. The reconciliation of pensions means keeping pensions at the same level, and everyone should be aware of that. In fact, it is 6.5 euros, but look at it; those who have a minimum pension for 40 years of work and age would receive 5.31 euros on the basis of the proposal we first made to the coalition. It is now expected that after this proposal, 6.5 euros, or that one who has an average pension, a retirement pension, will now receive 6.5 euros, following this proposal we made in the coalition, and will receive the same from the proposal they made in the SAB or in those parties who have adopted this amendment at the committee meeting. So it's not a high amount here, and it's actually only a month in 2021. But there's another thing that's important. Pensions are lagging behind, pensioners have actually given the country a loan, they didn't want to, but they had to give it back, and we haven't returned it yet. And already there, in order to get an extremely coordinated 1.5% in December of this year, the country and all of us owe them 5.6%. Dearly beloved, we must return this and, in the meantime, 5.6% is also the percentage we are talking about – the harmonisation of pensions, not the dragnet allowance. If we want to give the pensioners a Dragan allowance, let us decide, let's say that to those who have the lowest pensions, at a certain date, let's give them a Dragan Supplement to help us pick them up. It is true that I was very surprised at the conclusion of Umar when he arrived, when we had already drawn up the budget, and he presented economic growth by 2.8%, which at the same time meant that we would not harmonise pensions. I appreciate, I'll say, the work of independent organizations, but, moment, moment, time, when they suggested it to us, and it seemed wrong to me, I'll say it in concrete terms. For us in Desus, it is important that pensions are coordinated, and of course it is logical that there is also extraordinary coordination. I told you why. If we don't follow this, then the fall of pensions will be even bigger than it was. We have submitted a supplement that, at 2.5% of economic growth, pensions are also harmonised in the following year by one percent. This was within the coalition and was not accepted. Look at the fraction, and then there's one of the coalition parties, and just to attach a ticket, simply suggests another solution, which is not in accordance with the law, is not in line with our Bismarck's supplementary pension system. It's out of order! And simply, if we accept this, we will have very serious problems in the future. I deeply agree that we must raise minimum pensions; the minimum pension must not be below the poverty threshold. It is at this point, and as long as it is, then we'll have a bunch of poor pensioners and pensioners. I mentioned earlier the amount contributed by pensioners during the economic recession or economic difficulties and recession, and at that time pensioners lost 8.4 per cent of their pension. With extraordinary coordination, we believe that this problem is somehow being resolved, but that 5.6% remains, and we should actually solve it in a shorter time, not in one five, six years, because this means that we are in some way keeping many pensioners of the poor. But there's one more thing I'd like to point out. The Minister of Finance, the share of pensions in gross social product is 9.8% in Slovenia, 14.5% in Austria and 12.6% in the European Union, and this will have to be taken into account in the future. And there's one more thing. Do you know how many pensioners have grown in recent years? The number of pensioners increased by 30%, which means that the percentage of gross social product fell significantly for pensions. The bright red light, which is why we have such problems with pension misery or poverty.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The debate in essence about this amendment revolves around what is right and what is right. I was surprised when a reporter stopped me in the hallway and asked: “Are you now making an amendment so that some won’t get anything?” I am talking about how with such debates we are going to blur out what we actually have Members on the bench and some of us are discussing whether it is right for pensioners to get six-and-a-half euros or not, and here we ask ourselves what we are talking about. We don't really talk about six euros and a half, so there's no mistake. We are talking to those who have 500 euros in pensions on the euro and a half. Because there is so much difference between the amount that we would get if we kept this nominal proposal and the amount that we would get if we went as percentage as we propose with the amendment in one percent. To be clear, the nominal amount for each pensioner, as proposed by the SAB, has been confirmed on the Committee on Finance and six euros for each. The amendment by SMC and Desus Group of Members is 1%. The actual difference between the six and a half euros and 1% is EUR 500 and a half. So that's the only difference we're talking about. But we've also converted it into percentages. So what does this six-and-a-half-percent mean? In the case of minimum pensions, this means 3% and in the case of maximum pensions, this means 0.3%. 0.3%! Now, you tell me whether it is right and right that the legislator in such an arbitrary way violently interferes with a pension fund based on the system, you get as much as you did or how much you paid. Is that fair? So that whoever paid ten times more, ten times more, now gets ten times less. And I'm not talking about the fact that it would be right for the lowest pensions to be higher. That they're too low. I'm not even talking about it. I'm talking about that in pensions we have an insurance system, that those who have paid more and worked longer expect to get more, of course. They're expecting it. There have also been some attempts in the past to nominally enter pensions, but, thank God, at that time common sense prevailed. Because once we intervene in these ways, we will destroy everything that has been built so far. Let me recall this: already that we have somehow agreed in the previous term and reached a consensus that the lowest pensions are too low and that we are the lower limit for full working time and full age, and of course these pensions are now limited to at least EUR 530. At that time, some pensioners commented that this was not fair. Because those who paid less came closer to those who actually paid more all the time. The problem with us is not just a low-dose percentage. The problem with us is that the vast majority of those who have retired so far are in fact early retirements. So she didn't finish or reach her full age, and that's why these pensions are so low. But despite everything, you have to understand, it's an insurance system. To address those who need some social transfers, we have another system called the social system. This system must detect people who need special social services. But these aren't pensions. These are not pensions and the harmonisation of pensions is already by its definition of coordination with rising prices of living needs, but it does not matter whether this harmonisation is regular or extraordinary so that there is no confusion. Harmonisation is harmonisation, adaptation to irritation. Regular or extraordinary, it doesn't matter, so it's right and fair to keep it as a percentage. I know that SAB communicates in a way, yeah, the price of bread is the same for everything. Of course, the price of bread is the same for those who have 500 euros or for those who have 1,000 euros. But even when she was taking her medication, she took her percentages so that we wouldn't forget it. Even then, in percentages, the price of bread was the same for everyone. It is, of course, right that coordination is made as a percentage. What is a social adjustment is an annual supplement. Here I agree and right, the annual allowance is a social adjustment and it is right to get those with the lowest pensions of the highest and, of course, vice versa. But the purpose of one and the other is completely different. One more thing, what our group leader has already mentioned, is the unpredictability we are introducing here. People are working, working for a long time, and at this point we are working very hard in the absence of labour, with information that we have the smallest employment among people over 55 years of age. It is very important to make sure that these people remain in the labour market after 55 years. It is said that they need to be motivated in some way, and this is, of course, by getting a higher pension for each additional year of work. But how are we going to do that, if we do it eventually, like I said, arbitrarily, and say, no matter how much longer you've been working, and you're not, you're both going to get the same. Is that right? Is that fair? You think that's what people expect? I don't think so. I hope you've read the position of the Alliance of Retired Associations that we've received, at least we've got it, I believe you have too. I will now read, as you know, the ZDUS has always advocated a better material situation for pensioners, but it understands the system as we have it, as we understand it in the SMC and as it is obviously understood in Desus, because it says, I quote: "This is unacceptable because it does not follow the system regime whereby the pension is an economic category that is systematically regulated in Article 105 of the ZPIZ-2 and its height depends on the length of the contributions and the height of the bases on which they were paid. Under Articles 105 and 106 of the ZPIZ-2, the harmonisation of pensions is intended to preserve their value and must be expressed as a percentage, since otherwise it may jeopardise the existing pension system.” And that's what Director Zpiz is pointing out in the end, if you've listened to him. So once again, it is right and fair that harmonisation remains a percentage, whether it is an emergency or a regular one, harmonisation is a harmonisation. And once again, we are not really talking about even six and a half euros, we are talking about the difference between the euro and half of the 500-euro pension. That is why we will not save any pensioner with this euro and a half in order to be above the poverty risk threshold. None. And that's pure deception. I repeat, extraordinary coordination, regular coordination – it is not important. People expected them to receive their pension as they had done and as they had paid up, so let us give them what they expected.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. The first is Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, I have to take a call, especially because it is necessary to answer and repeat repeatedly, because I see things that are easily noticed in the National Assembly, especially when the words of justice, prosperity, equality, are used very quickly when it comes to serious deception. The word "excellent coordination" is just a time dimension for me. This certainly does not mean a special way, an extraordinary way by different formulas, by different arrangements and something, which of course will improve material status or make greater justice. No, no, no. This means that if we have regular coordination, we know exactly when they are, but they are extraordinary when you do extraordinary things, at a time that was not actually meant to be coordinated. Of course, this word “extremely” is very appropriate for proposers of this type of change or harmonisation, a way to harmonise it. So it's nominally the same for everyone. Now I'm asking. All Members, including those who supported this on the committee, when this has been discussed, I ask you why you do not then come up with a proposal that whenever we have changes in the pension law, those changes that apply apply to everyone, including those who have retired before and have decisions already made. Why don't we do it? Because it would be fair for everyone to have the same. If you understand what I'm saying. When we accept, if we accept, the changes in Zpiz and change the way we retire, the relationship and everything else, who will this apply to? For all those who will retire when the law is passed, and not for those who have already retired. That must be said out loud. Harmonisation cannot be in a way that we do not actually know. I believe that some are sure and like to say – you know, this reminds me of when we start talking with the union when every time the government starts negotiations with the unions, where they could, how they could come along with the employers. We are one of the few countries that pay for a trip to work and lunch, and they always suggest that we go to an end. Of course, unions go crazy, they jump into the air, and then there's this famous word, you know, it's a social correction. The journey to work is not a social adjustment. Why am I saying this? This is because there is no social adjustment to pension as well. The pension cannot be a social adjustment, but it is a payment for something you have paid during your working life. Pika. If someone has problems and is in serious situations where he can no longer live with his pension, we have a social transfer to do so. But they need to be notified and proven. Excuse me, we have different pensioners who have retired differently. When some retired, they were accounted for 10 best years, some for 20 best years, some for early retirement, some for retirement, some for retirement, some for retirement, some for retirement, some for retirement, some for retirement, some for retirement, some for work, in short, we have different pensioners. Sorry, that doesn't work out. I don't know why now all of a sudden we have to throw it all in one bag and say, let's give it all the same. Do you know what that's like? It's not Bismarck's system, it's Brother's system. That's it, being liked by someone. I will not go into these battles that some, some political actors have among themselves, who will take more care of the pensioners. I didn't make any promises to the pensioners during the elections, and I can say that out loud. But I'm against further anomalies being made. Oh, no! Excuse me, my mom always says to me: "So what do you raise me for a single Euro pension?Oh, my God! Give me an org to lift or leave me alone. Not that you're telling me that you didn't know what you did to me." And this is where we feed people and word games. When they get this alignment, when they get into the accounts, they'll say, "Come on, fools are made out of us." [[…]] Because they live today, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, and so on. Let's be honest about what they think about these discussions here when we talk. But someone's going to speak out loud and that's why it's an electoral pamphlet and nothing else. “We have taken care of and given to all alike, because we are righteous.” What a treasure, please. It's no good, but it's destruction, planned, systematic destruction of the pension system. That's it. And remember the point. Once you've done it, you can do it every time because you have a basis for going through it, and that's how it's done. And then we say, we won't have it anymore, and if this is a social correction, then whoever lives badly can go to Zpiz and say, my dears, I can't live with it, please, if you give me a new decision. That's not how it works. Where did we come from? We're gone, we're gone! That is why I cannot support this proposal. Not because it would be against pensioners getting better, away from it. But you have to respect one of the rules of the game and take them all the way. If we break this, I'm sorry, we won't come anywhere else, because then we'll allow ourselves to do new and new anomalies every time in other areas that will only lead us to the end. You know, temptation is a bad thing, but in the end, things always end badly. That is why I cannot support and support this proposal, of course, the amendment that we have tabled, which will enforce what is normal and acceptable and what is called harmonisation, but, of course, a remarkable harmonisation over time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u205	The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! For 6.5 euros such a debate and so long and so hot blood, when this could have been done before, because we have had economic growth for several years. Now that we are in some kind of cooling down and declining economic growth, now that we have said that we will give some extraordinary reconciliation of pensions or of these 6.5 euros, opinions are being broken here, interestingly, within the coalition. All right, if the opposition proposes this, but obviously the strength is measured or we are just ahead of some elections to strengthen the muscles in the area of pensioners, measure the muscles and, of course, who will better say and who will give more and who will promise more. It is so well known how always the pensioners are promised something, and in the end there is nothing left but words and what they get every month, and what is also what we have, which we all know very well, is a very large number of pensioners who receive a minimum pension. Here I have a question that each of us can ask. How much will those women who were taken from their state pension be given? There were 16,000 of them. Will they get anything? Will they get six and a half euros? What will we do about other pensions? I still suffer from low widow's pensions. A higher percentage is also proposed in the mini pension reform, but this is still not comparable to the countries that we want to follow or for which we want to set an example of how pensions are received or paid so that something decent can then be obtained when you go to retirement. Of course I mean Germany, Austria. And it seems to me that these promises in the past were in some way an abuse, because every pensioner, especially the one who received little, was confident that the sun would shine for him and that he would get a little more. I think there are many pensioners who have retired under different conditions, as it has already been said today, but all too often as a Member I hear that they have worked 42 after 43 and a half years and received the EUR 520. As young people began to work, they had to hunt for an age of 43.4 years and get around €535 out. The problem is that we have very low pensions in Slovenia, so I will support this proposal, which gives everyone 6.5 euros. Because it seems to me that it is right and that there are many who would receive only 1 euro or 2.5 euros from any other key. I think it's finally right and that this signal is not so negative, but it's positive from a human point of view, because we say, look, everyone is worth getting 6.5 euros. Finally. I believe that you are afraid or that economists will be afraid that everything will collapse now — how significant. But we'll fix it. There's been a lot of damage. I have a position on one law that will be in place in a few hours when we've broken the system in blind and visually impaired children, and the matter will be rectified. However, the fact is that pensioners who have calmed down since 2012 may be the most disadvantaged. We have prepared a mini-retirement reform that will raise the percentages measured, I hope that it will succeed not for six years, but that it will go faster for men. What will we do with this transitional period, if I say so, from 2013 to 2020? A large number of people have retired under extremely poor conditions due to the economic crisis, especially men. Will we be able to say that the economic crisis was to blame for this? Because if we can do that, then we'll give a second signal that every citizen is worth it again and that there is a human dignity at the forefront of all of us here, man. Sooner or later, I wish we could try to imitate the dose or the way widow's pensions are paid. Really, and I believe it's painful what people are probably telling you. After 40 years, the husband and wife both retire, together in a pension fund of 80 years, if one of them dies, in one way or another, due to various causes, illness, accident, there is now only 16% of the difference between the two pensions, which is very small. A widow or widower would receive 60% of the spouse's pension abroad. And here's the difference. If the difference is around 200 euros, 16% is around 25 euros, 26 euros, but if it was 60% of a husband's pension, if this husband's pension was 800 euros, that would be 480 euros next to his pension. It is said that true — what statistics also say — are the most endangered single women, and they also have the lowest pensions. But I was hoping that we would take a step forward, but we will look at what can be done here, what can be done with those 80 years when in some common household it was paid into the system, but simply this desire is not or I don't know, maybe not only wishes, but also some understanding of it. Once again, these are very large, about 75 000 in Slovenia. As far as coordination is concerned, if everyone has any of the economic growth, it is right that pensioners do. However, I would like to see children, families, and so on from this economic growth. Some measures may have been released there, but it seems to me that there is also a need to look at the area of scholarships. Last but not least, I expect the coming months, in the spring months, what you coalition Members have promised me will prepare a version or that changes will also be made to our proposal for a household allowance, which we have proposed about half a year ago, a little more in New Slovenia, and for those who have pensions of less than EUR 500 – here, of course, I also have in mind farmers' pensions and those who are over 65 years old – to bring a household allowance of EUR 100. When you rejected the proposal, you said that you would prepare a structural change, one that would not only be for the household allowance, but for everything, and that this would be settled. Of course, your promise was somewhere from March to May – you know, the time is going fast and I want you to really be able to do it in the coalition and realize that something needs to be done in the area of pensions, which are still, despite the fact that for 40 years you will get 500 euros, is low. Here I also have in mind peasants' pensions. Today, €40 per farmer's pension is about €240. I really think it's amazing that these people can survive. The only thing they want is to be healthy so they can do something else to make it easier for them to survive. Women also retired under different conditions, but it seems to me that it is very important to understand that most women, at least what I have contacts, may have actually retired a few years earlier, after 30 years, and stayed home and so on. But these days, I spoke to a man who said, "My mom gets 370 euros in pension. In the city.’ I'm really surprised to see how all the cost of living goes up, how these people can survive with this pension. Even more so if they're real single women. No wonder they warn us that the greatest social poverty, social exclusion in the countryside and among single women is. With 370 euros, you really can't survive. To conclude, I would like to see more of such coordination in order to be higher, which means that economic growth would be good, so that we can really help and give to those who have worked in the past, and in this way we might be able to make things a little easier for them. We are ahead of the December holiday, and I believe that these 6.5 euros will also mean a lot to many people and that they may be able to afford a little more, a little better lunch on this account.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word has Yuri Lepo, prepare Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister, Secretary of State! Today is a topic that is very important to our client, Desus. Not for the sake of being special here, but because we are a democratic party of pensioners, which means that we respect past work, respect socialism, respect solidarity. From this point of view, we need to know that we are advocating a pension system that is not ideal, but is and is. Any such change affecting the pension system with some equal amounts or up or down could in the future mean a breakdown of this system, which we certainly do not want. That's what I'm trying to say. We pay various contributions to the pension fund, we pay them differently and they will be paid differently. And then you expect that in the future there will be a variety of earnings, one way or another. I do not want to mix this in this context with social affairs, because I will end up telling myself how I imagine solving these problems. As has already been said, we have many types of pensions, premature, disabled, widowed, old, some have worked for 40 years, some have worked for only 15 years, and that is also the problem with those who have dual status, or those who are partially retired. There are many pensioners on different bases, saying that if we have different foundations for our pensioners and pensioners, it is impossible to resolve the common system by giving everyone the same. We have a record system, which means it's being paid in a pension box for our craftsmen. Or, some of them had previously paid, but now we work for them, before they worked for their predecessors. Given that Desus is a social and solidarity party, it is primarily necessary to respect past work, as I have already said, and from respect for past work, it is necessary to say that the contributions paid are a right that no law or system may take away from you. That's why it's called a pension system — because it's a system. Whether it's wrong or not, it's a system. But I also know we've been saving before. For example, here we talk about what many have already said — talking on the road or with neighbors who say what you give us this one and a half euro or these six euros. We are really talking about 1.5 euros today, because if that system, like the system, was 1% in December 2020, that would mean, but statistics, with 500 euros now 1.5 euros. What was the proposal, which is now under consideration. We should most likely be careful not to contribute to this – which I hope we will not, I hope that the amendment of the Desus and SNS groups will be adopted, because we are defending, we are actually defending the past work, and if we start to break it, then all of this will be broken anyway. You need to know that before I was employed in a large company, I was also in a union, talking, yeah, when you're in a working relationship there are some wage relationships like 1:12 when you're retired, but this range is smaller. And it's smaller. I also know that, say, in the West or in Australia, only those who cannot take care of themselves receive pensions. But that's another problem again. That's where the country takes care of those who can't survive on their own. And we may still be missing this in Slovenia. As colleague Iva Dimic said, I also agree – that we have abolished state pensions, and it was not clear to me that we have done so. In particular, women, I agree with this once again, are those who can actually be disappointed in this segment and talk to their partners about their survival, whether they will be given a few euros to buy at the store or for coffee. These are real pictures. And that's what I'd say. As far as I know, in 2008, as I have seen, the National Assembly adopted a law called the Single Pension Supplement Act. This was accepted at the time for them to be — and this was a social group, this is another story, and this is the same as a regression as an annual supplement. The 2008 National Assembly accepted to grant an allowance, and this was in the reverse sense, saying, the one who had a higher pension got less, the one who had a smaller pension got more. It's this thing that we can solve things with, that some people have really small pensions. But we must insist that the pension is a paid right. If we start tearing this thing down, then I'll tell you there's no going back in the future. As has already been said, if we leave this alone once, then this will happen forever and the story will be over quickly. And you might also say that you'll know why it happened. When we adopted this law, Umar came to the National Assembly and gave results that indicated that, say, GDP growth under that percentage that had already foreseen coordination, and therefore, the party Desus and the Members of Parliament were concerned that this coordination would not even take place. That's why we made the first amendment to do it. Then this amendment of ours adopted the entire coalition. Great! We said it wasn't even a problem, and then we finally pulled it out. And then on the board came an amendment to the amendment that turned the story upside down. At the time we were in Desus against, the SMC abstained, and then we said, well, but now we really have to insist, and so again we tabled an amendment – to put the story back to the way it was. Because if we do this, we will maintain this system of ours, and we can say that we who are here to do legislation do not destroy ourselves. So I say, the pension system is a system, it's not ideal, but it's good, and it's real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak has the word, to prepare Soniboj the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. What the SAB is proposing is, of course, a balancing toolbox, that is clear. Pensioners oppose and are bitter about such extraordinary coordination. When the crisis took place, they were deprived of certain percentages, I repeat, percentages, pensions, and now they should also return this percentage. The state should return this to them, not the nominal amount. With regard to the consistency of the work of the SAB, I must also say what no one has said – that when we proposed this amendment to be an extraordinary harmonisation at 2.5%, the SAB proposed 2.8%. That's the line that Umar set. Only one percentage point would be less and it wouldn't be. So much for taking care of the pensioners by the SAB. Another thing that is also important, and we know it, 2013 when Alenka Bratušek was Prime Minister of the Government, she wanted to take 10% of the pension away from pensioners. Minister Cufer went to the American Chamber of Commerce and explained in English that the pensioners had not yet contributed anything to the exit from the crisis. It's purely the deception of Alenka Bratushek. Then, at a press conference yesterday, she said: “It is an extraordinary coordination of pensions.” In the SAB, too, she said, “they appreciate that regular reconciliation of pensions is intended to maintain the real value of pensions, and extraordinary harmonisation is something remarkable, linked to the fact that the country is so well placed that it can afford it”. Hello? Shame. I am ashamed that my President of the Government has been saying this extraordinary reconciliation of pensions is returning, correcting the injustices experienced by pensioners during the crisis, and now since 2012, as long as this crisis has lasted, we have not yet been able to recover in 2019 what they were deprived of, in December is still 7.2%, 1.5%, and if the second year is 1%, we would still not have corrected the injustices. [[…]] And what the former Prime Minister said to me is embarrassing. What, though, do some pensioners think — because I have been persecuted for a while? See how they wrote to us: “SAB, especially Alenka Bratušek, must say that by her move she has offended many pensioners, whom she has minimized at the price of a kitchen cloth. The SAB should leave the care of pensions to those who have been working all the time to raise pensions, that is, Desus." The lady also called in the SAB, they were not attainable, so it is assumed that they are probably hanging somewhere, given that they are, according to Masha Kociper, considered to be symbols of the state. “Desus should continue to work for the pensioners as he has done so far.” [[sign for the end of the debate]] Yeah, but now I'm running out of time, okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u212	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have to say that today this is already going into a burlesque, burlesque - I don't know how else to say it - fighters for our pensioners who have been sitting for years, decades in the National Assembly, say, had scissors and canvas in their hands. But the situation is that we have one third of 620,000 pensioners at the threshold of poverty. I would like to discuss a dilemma that I will later develop, and I do not know what is right, but I would point out that in recent years we have been doing quite a few measures in the field of legislation that have been far from being just to be right. The large number of measures we have been taking in the last 20 years in the area of amending pension legislation has gone in the direction of maintaining the pension register. The care for the pensioners and what this box office can pay them was originally in the second or third plan. That's the result, today we have pensioners with pensions that people find difficult to survive with. Already the data, respected colleagues and colleagues, that only 30% of 620 thousand pensioners have 40 years of retirement age, all others are some special categories, not even known whether they belong to the category of pensioners or should be certain social transfers for these categories, but the situation today is as it is. [[…]] I'm sure it's not fair. I entered the labour market 38 years ago and started to work, and my salary was withdrawn, and I was promised to get an 80 per cent pension base on my retirement, then they took 10 more years of the best, with all the changes we brought to 57.5% of the pension base, the period we extended to 24 years – a great cash measure. Did anyone wonder if this was a great measure for pensioners? Nobody. Nobody. We can all be ashamed! Not just Desus, but the SAB, who are the only fighters for the social rights of pensioners. All those who have been running this country for decades can be ashamed of us. We do not know how to take care of the structure built by the State. My colleague Jani Möderndorfer said that pension is not a social correction. Colleagues and colleagues, we have written in the constitution that we are also a social state. We had to cut through the law that the lowest pension for 40 years is a few more euros, and we had to do it with the law, especially. Just as we had to, because the labour market does not play a role, the social partners also had to set a minimum wage in this country by law. What are we doing with these minimum standards? We're preventing more people from digging through garbage cans, but is he looking for food? Are we doing this because they're in apartments, that we don't have them on the street, that they're not homeless, like we have somewhere else in the world? Is that what we want? The pension must also play a part in the social adjustment. I'm pretty sure that's not the last thing we have in the constitution. What's right, what's wrong, about this. It's absurd, we're talking today, as you said before, about the euro or two differences. Let's stop. I will support myself because of the situation in which the vast majority of those with the lowest pensions are, I will support with colleagues, as I said, those payments in a single amount. But I'm not sure, I wouldn't call it an extraordinary harmonisation – I'm closer to the term, I don't know, a dragan supplement. Because right now we can afford it because there are slightly better results. Let us make this part of the contribution to what they have been doing in recent years — so that those with the lowest pensions may also be able to patch up from month to month. Do you know what they do with the 400, 500 euros they get first? But they pay the bills. This is a generation that is used to meeting its obligations to this country on a regular basis. What's left is for food, and what you can afford is not enough. I am firmly convinced, but I also agree with the advocates that we should not fall into this regular coordination with such interventions. But this will actually bring down the system, and I agree with it, and I am not in favour of a change in this part. I don't know how to answer myself, as you said before, but I just don't know what's going on here. It's only fair to take care of those who are hard to survive. However, I firmly believe that this one-off measure, with this payment in the same amount, will not undermine the pension system as has already been said today. For all these reasons, which I have listed, I will, of course, support, together with my colleagues, the alignment of pensions with the same amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u213	You don't have time, I'm sorry. One second. Here you go, Mr. Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u214	The power of Desus in the coalitions, all of which we were in, depends on the number of Members, that was between five and ten. That's how much we could have done. That we've come this far, but it's Rob's reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Mr. Marko Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u216	President, thank you for your word. If only we could have a little order. Thank you. I'm sorry there's been this kind of tone. First of all, some of the predecessors have already said, we are talking about six euros and a half a month, which is no amount, but this amount is probably very important for a lot of people. I'll take one step back here, and I repeat, I understand your concern.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u217	Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. Please don't disturb the speaker when he speaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you, Chairman. I understand the concerns of my colleagues from Desus and it is entirely justified, but we must understand here that it is two things, in our opinion, entirely different. I'll say so. We are talking about economic growth and this coordination, this extraordinary coordination – correct me, Secretary of State, if I miss this matter – is within the power of the Government to determine certain results. Let us say honestly that people who look at us can understand. And here we are talking about extraordinary coordination, not regular coordination. Regular coordination is no problem at all, and there is no problem of sticking to the percentage system, as you suggest and as you want it to go. We've never discussed this. We are explicitly talking about the extraordinary coordination that is at this moment, and it is very important to say also that it is not working backwards. Because it all depends on the state of our country's health, if you say so. Because it's GDP, it's a state. We are talking about some cooling and some calming of our situation, and we are still talking about 2.5%, which is one of the highest things in Europe, and we must also be aware of that. Since other countries speak of 0.1, 0.2%, this should also be known. We also agreed with Desus on 2.5, and I think we've all agreed on it. The problem was somewhere else. The coalition partners didn't have a problem because of 2.5. Then we made a deal. And now this problem has come about this percentage. Mr. Hršak, you've said some nasty things about the then president of the government. There was no need to say that you were ashamed that she was running the country, and that she was leading what needed to be done. Look, Alenka Bratušek wanted to – I didn't hear it either, she said, pointing from the third hand, which is not said to have been done. It's never been done. But the fact that she wanted to be retired is too easy to say, the facts are different, is what we're proposing today. And you know what we want to do is just help those who get the least. With extraordinary coordination, not with regular coordination. Regular coordination doesn't matter, let's leave it the way it is. We're only talking about extraordinary. You know, this is that table -- when we were putting our views out before -- this is one very nice table, a very visual table. It also tells us who the pensioner is, and here is 70, 80% of the 650 euros, those privileged, who receive 2 000 and 2 000 500 euros in pension. How did they come to such a pension? That's what you have to ask yourself. We're privileged. I've always said we're privileged. You, President Desusa, are privileged because you have been in Parliament for 19 years and will receive one such pension and of course this is in your interest. But regular coordination doesn't touch anyone, we're talking about extraordinary. And let me tell you something now. The 78 euros that one pensioner will receive at the end of the year, as Mrs Iva Dimic said earlier, a farm pension, will pay 50% of the electricity bill for him for the whole year. Is he okay? I think we have to look at it that way, it's a solidarity thing. And that's what we suggested. Because those who will receive EUR 2 000 700 and will run out of EUR 13 and a half a month will not run out of extra money – I don't think this will be a huge problem for him. And here's what we made our proposal for. We're just making a suggestion. And I can see that he was also well received. Because, as far as I can tell, I wasn't on the board, but as far as I can tell, he was admitted to work. You know, we proposed this thing as a nominal. That means the same for everyone, in fact. And that's all we've done, just for the sake of those who get less. Indeed, as colleague Kociprov said, bread goes up the same for everyone, but it is relatively important or irrelevant. It's just that we can help someone who actually gets a little or nothing. And I repeat, I agree with my colleague from SD, extraordinary coordination, this could be called slightly different. Could be one name that would be a little different. It could be a different name and say, look, we have a bigger one, if you say so, and we give it to everyone. But it's not about coordinating what's missing that's not 6.5, but it's 7%, I think it's been missing since then. I think I've read something like that. But that's what this is all about. Like I said, you know she wanted to, that's what stabbed me, Hršak. That really stabbed me because it wasn't true and it was never done. It's never been done. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Ma, it wasn't a matter of whether or not you allow it, look, it wasn't done. And that's what she said, she said. In politics, we are often used to saying information and fairy tales, such that then some even believe what is here. But let's let it stop. Mainly, as we say, the sole purpose of our proposal is that the differences between pensioners do not increase. And that was this proposal here, very simple. 78 euros per table, and as I can see, there is also consensus, for those who receive EUR 218 per month. It's a lot of money for him. You know, electricity may not be the case, but look, also the TV they watch, our pensioners are watching this now, it's almost 50% of the RTV contribution to them. Let's give it an example, essentially the state gives it an opportunity. And I'm just saying this again and then I'm gonna finish it, it's not about back. Nothing's going back. This is just about who gets it in the future. And we're even talking in a year, and we're not even talking right now. I think this proposal from our side is very welcome. I hope that you will support him most of the time, because this works only well for those layers of pensioners who get less, less and still get a little. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja the Servant has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Since Mr Bandelli was referring to exactly the part of the debate that I had, I would really like to stress once again, coordination means raising pensions in line with rising prices of living needs. Always, whether it is regular coordination or it is extraordinary coordination. The difference is only on a date, so to speak. And once again, don't fool ourselves into talking about the difference of €6 and a half because we don't. We are not talking about 6 euros and a half, we are talking about 1 euro and a half at the pension of 500 euros, and we are talking about 50 cents at the pensions of 700 euros and we are talking about 3 euros and a half at the pensions of thousands of euros. These are the amounts we're talking about. And because these are so low amounts, we need to be particularly careful about such arbitrary interventions into the pension system, which is currently based on percentages. Just so that such minor changes do not cause us to break something that we have been building for a long time. And one more thing. We, if we were to determine this in nominal terms, are going into the pension register. If you think it is necessary, and I can agree that it is necessary, to add some social corrections, then let this not be coordination, let it be called a different name, and then let it also come from budgetary resources, not from the pension register. If we're talking about some other kind of action.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. The first one has the word Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, a nice welcome from this town! What was expected was to focus in the debate on extraordinary coordination of pensions, but here I would like to remind you of the law, which is also intended to limit certain expenditure on public sector salaries. What kind of money are we talking about, exactly, what kind of savings? The financial implications of limiting expenditure or budget savings for regular work performance and increased work are estimated at EUR 38 million for the state budget and EUR 64 million for the state sector. But it's probably not that important for our citizens, and the fact is, we have to have some conservative relationship here, because, I repeat, I'm afraid, we just have to be careful. Caution is almost a good quality. We need to be careful, and we need to look at the economic trends around us, in the European Union, with our most important trading partners, because all of this then also affects the economic movement in our country. If the economy goes well, everyone will do well, including the pensioners. But today I can say that we do not actually have a pension system in the Republic of Slovenia. Because the system is a structured, structured solution, but we only have some kind of pension poverty, we don't have a system. Ladies and gentlemen, until we can find time to lock ourselves up for a month, two, three and put on the table the best idea for pension reform or better said for a better pension system, by then we will be discussing whether we will give all pensioners one apple or maybe all two apples or those who paid less, just one apple, and those who have paid slightly more for 40 years in the pension allowance, maybe three apples. Simply, any future pension reform can only be part of a reform threesome. This is just the opinion of us, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. So it's part of the reform threesome and its fiscal upgrade. In particular, health reform, pension reform and public sector reform, and as a residual tax and contribution reform. All three of these reforms are structurally linked, and the way in which they are linked depends on the future structure of the Slovenian state and thus the way in which Slovenian society operates. Tax and contribution reform is called a residual reform and is carried out in parallel as a result of the first two reforms, i.e. health and pension reforms. But it is certainly not going to happen in this mandate, but it would be good if we were right for the young generation. For us who may have been a few years before retirement, the matter is closed, but we young generations must be impressed that from the first salary forward, if they have the opportunity, they will certainly care for their better age. This is how they work in developed democracies, in developed and richer countries. Because what do we have today? Today we have 268,000 people who are below the poverty line, which is a good 13% of the Slovenian population. We have 326 thousand people – that is, a good 16% – on the verge of social exclusion. And when we look at the amount of the monthly amount for a single-member household to keep a person from living below the poverty threshold, the monthly income of a good EUR 660 must be. How much is the minimum pension for a full 40-year pension? The same is 530 euros. So those who have worked for 30 years and received a minimum of EUR 530 per month by law today are below the poverty threshold if they live in a single-member household. Here too, we must not forget that demography is unforgivable. Demographics are unforgivable. Unfavourable demographic movements are an important reason which suggests in-depth consideration of long-term population changes in Slovenian society. But these are obviously questions that seem to seem like they don't really tange each time. I will also repeat what colleague Iva pointed out – exactly one year ago, we proposed a new law on the household allowance in this National Assembly. 100 euros is to be given to those households who are over 65 years of age and who have a pension of less than 500 euros a month. We forgot about those, ladies and gentlemen, we forgot about those who actually did housework and were mothers. Mothers who may have given birth to 2, 3, 4, 5 Slovenian taxpayers have forgotten them. At that time, Mr Svetlik, in fact on that dark day, simply took out so-called state pensions. It is true that this is a social category, so I am not talking about pensions, I am talking about a household allowance. But it actually goes in this context, in the context of attention to those who have the least. Who have the least. This amendment, which I have also supported on the Committee on Finance and which was proposed by LMŠ, SD and SAB – I understand that it is actually a socialist measure, the same to all. But I understand so much that it's about helping those who have the least. That's what this is about. It's not a systemic solution, I admit. It's not a systemic solution. Systemic will be only then, ladies and gentlemen, when we are going to undertake all the three reforms that I mentioned earlier. It won't work. It won't work. It won't work. How does it actually work? We're discussing something here right now, and I don't know if the pensioners who text me understand what this is all about. This is the case, thank God we will have an economic growth of more than 2.5% this year, so in 2019 economic growth will be more than 2.5%, and this is a condition for pensions to be harmonised. It's not a supplement, but the pensions are getting back together. Every month, every month, six and a half euros more. This is now following the amended proposal for a law adopted by the Committee on Finance. At the annual level, say and write, 50 million euros. That's what we're talking about. For 630 thousand pensioners. 50 million for 630 thousand pensioners. The total mass of all pensions is 4 billion and half. So we'll know what we're talking about. But we just can't give anymore, it's not working. But it's all, hand to heart, one change, and it's written here by my citizens, our citizens, of course yours. In fact, this situation is simply being cried out after the policy has to make a new pension system. New. I'm sure the chairman will interrupt me today if I talk too much about what we have in mind in New Slovenia, but it just doesn't go any further. We actually did a total disassembly of the pension system, so I'm saying that we don't have a pension system, we don't have a pension poverty. And something else about the public sector. Yeah, of course we need him. Public sector wages are not too high. I repeat, I will not be convicted. The question is, and I am convinced that we are not well organised in the public sector, especially in the state sector, we are not well organised, we are not economically organised. Why did the mass of wages rise by 4% from 2017 to 2018 and rise by 8.1% from 2018 to 2019? 8.1. Yes, because they were strike demands and because we were more employed. I'm saying too much, I'm sorry. Where are the savings offered by modern technology? Where's process information? Do we have any extensions? I would like to get answers to this topic once, because if we don't simplify the processes here, we will inform them, which also means that there will be no possibility of anyone acting as a companion – the software is the software, the application works, doesn't know who came to the counter, or Stefan or Jože. I don't see any real extensions here. We're talking so much about digitisation, but I don't think we have any structure in the government itself that would take care of it. So I'm talking about savings, I'm talking about a cheaper country. Because of the natural law – the economic cycles are natural law – because of this natural law of the economic cycle, we will come once again, I hope that never again, up to –7% of economic growth. Negative 7. But look how much it means to us if our economic growth falls by 1%. Then it's very well known. In short, in fact, with the Parliamentary regime, with the amendment adopted by the Committee – and also now I see that support for the law – has been determined to give more to those with the smallest and lowest pensions. When the government was preparing this law, I do not resent the government here, in fact, it had not yet been in the hands of Umara's prediction. Because if there were a government proposal, there would – I think – be a requirement or a requirement of 3% economic growth. Thank God now we've seen at the right time that there won't be, there won't be three. Those 6.5 euros wouldn't be there, that's what I'm talking about. And that we have actually acted so rationally, wisely, that we have relaxed this condition and placed it at 2.5%, which I am sure will be achieved, and that we will be able to distribute about 50 million to pensioners at the annual level. I misspoke, "split" and we will reconcile pensions for that. All will go up by 6.5 euros at monthly level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič has the word to prepare Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. In the SMC, this case does not seem as fair to us as a colleague explained it to me. On the contrary, actually. We are advocates of the fact that even in top-class pensions are the ones who paid the most. We do not agree with this rhetoric in this respect, but some have 200 euros in pensions that deserve a little more. You know, in this statistic, there are certainly those who have worked very short hours for, I'll say, some of the circumstances they wished for themselves, whether they were foreigners and then went abroad and still earned some of their pension and today they don't even live in Slovenia, and they'll get more than those who have 660 euros in pensions from us. Because we don't talk about those who have 2,000 euros in pension. Those who have 660 euros in pensions will be worse off by nominal increase. Such an operation in terms of, yes, this one has 200 euros in pension – let's first ask why. There have been a lot of such cases that were unfair, where it wasn't just about someone working and having a low salary, it was also about the employer not paying the contributions and the like. But look, there's a lot of them when they consciously said, I'm going to work 15 years, or he's only worked that long and that's all, he's gone abroad, then he's earned most of his pension, he's living abroad today, he's getting a part of his pension from Slovenia. We will short-circuit this with 6.5 euros, but the local man, who, I don't know, has 700 euros in pension, is not rich, but will get less than he is, relatively. In short, the fact is, there's a lot of surgery at the height of the pension. We are very socially sensitive. See, in the previous government, which is very critical, if you remember, we have adopted a law whereby those who have a full pension of at least EUR 500, then this amount has increased. But also the essence of that law was to reward the one who worked hard, who gave some to a society that worked full - time retirement. Of course, there are those who cannot because of health conditions, but those who treat marriage in a different way. Today, there have been many manipulations in connection with extraordinary harmonisation. Do you know what the current Pension and Disability Insurance Act says? Extraordinary pensions are adjusted as a percentage. So it is unclear to me what this will mean when there will now be another sausage in which it says extraordinary harmonisation will take place in the euro. How are you gonna do that? I don't know. But I said, our position is that this is extremely controversial, that it is at least unconstitutional, contradictory in marriage. And now this kind of surgery, the pressure that those who advocate such an amendment are more social than those who are for pensions to be reconciled in percentages — it is pure demagogy. In short, I'm sure that our pension system is what it is. He's not perfect. I am more concerned that the younger generations who listen to all these things will raise their hands and say, look, my dears, thank you very much. We don't know if we're gonna earn our pensions anymore, but they sure as hell won't. Someone will probably come up with some sort of solution so that we can retire when the average life expectancy is, I don't know, in 82 men, in 83 women, someone will probably suggest that we retire. This debate is going in this direction, somehow, to introduce even more uncertainty into this system, which, as it is, must be improved somewhere. So we will support this amendment and hope that some reason will prevail and that we will not break the whole story with such stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The replica has Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Igor, you misunderstood me. In one word, I did not say that this solution is now just. I repeat, we don't have a pension system, we have a pension poverty. Which is what you yourself indicated when you say that young people listen to us and say, look, bye, I'm going out. Because they don't have a perspective. I know, let's say my kids are thinking about retirement. But if you can, in your coalition, clean up your pension allowance – because you know what I mean, I mean those privileged pensions that are more every day – and then all pensioners who have paid 40 years and 43 years will get more. Are you hoping? You have our help.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word to prepare Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you, Chairman. Just a few points I'd like to make clear to my fellow Servant. It has no financial impact. None. We're talking about the same amounts, only the distribution is different. That's basic. My friend Zorčič said – the one with 660 euros dead, if I don't miss, you said they'll be on the worse. No one's gonna get worse, 'cause they're all gonna get more. It's an extraordinary coordination. They're going to get less, it's the same thing as saying that if we have smaller economic growth, we're not going to have a billion in the budget, but we're going to have 900 million. We'll still have more, we'll have a little less than what's more. That's what this is about. You have to say it the way it is. Because that's the truth. So nobody's gonna get any worse, anyway, they're gonna be for the better. Everyone's gonna do better than that. Now I have to repeat this again – because I really had this thing from Desus, it was a huge lie, what you said before – that Alenka Bratusek wanted to lower her pension by 10%. This is the same lie as your president – who has received ten mandates – that all pensioners will receive a thousand euros in pensions. It's the same lie, same lie. To tell you the truth, no offense. But that's the truth. So I'll tell you that's not true. Then there's something else. I'm sorry, but look, I did -- there were more reasons, I could say that Zuyf was needed at that time, we stabilized a lot of things with Zuyf, that's what you should say, but you voted for Zuyf at the time, and 25 thousand pensioners got 25% less. At that moment. So don't talk to me here now when people are watching what is, what isn't. Of course, we're talking 6.5 euros, 78 euros per year for someone. One doesn't seem to be anything, change, and for someone, I tell you, it's a lot of money, good money. That's to be understood. And I'm repeating something else, something else, to make this matter clear. That's not a back-up. Because that's what those who retire will get tomorrow. Is he okay? You have to understand that. That's forward. And we're also talking about today in a year. If I've got it all wrong, fix me. We are talking about 2020. So much for that. In fact, they would do nothing but move the socially weak pensioners a little bit higher. Nothing else. I don't see any problem with that here. Once again, absolutely here, those who talk about percentage coordination are misleading, this is extraordinary coordination, this is not regular coordination. For regular coordination we are all in favour, it is percentage, everything is fine, we will not even discuss it. We are talking about extraordinary coordination, which I think is also – I agree with the SD, which they said before – probably mistakenly named, which could be named completely different. It's a completely different name. But that's what this is about. And once again, now the minister has come to correct me, if I have misunderstood, the government decides on extraordinary coordination if it sees that the conditions are such that it can be done. The way we're going to distribute it, that's where we're going to decide. You've already made your decision on the committee in the first phase. The board had a clear picture told, they were in. We're not social here to look at these things, but at this point, I think it would be fairer. It's just the right term for it. But nothing will change, no financial impact, no different from what it is. The percentage is left over. That's all that's left. Of course it's right. Vice President, so much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u230	There is no representative – or I am wrong – of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to explain whether this proposal is in accordance with the law or not. Those of us who have read the law find that it is not in line with what is proposed in the Alenka Bratušek Party or, I will say, part of the coalition. Perhaps he would point out the following: we have solutions, we can quickly find them by unifying the contribution rates of employers and employees if we clean up the pension allowance. Only then will colleague Horvath not be able to talk about those who have a state pension, we will have to resolve these matters. The privileged are also those who have received pensions due to their achievements in certain areas, but we will have to transfer them to the ministries, both of which are different where they belong. And I have to point out that this law that we're about to adopt is doing a long-term lot of damage to the pension system. Believe it or not, we're gonna sink it. Believe it or not, I repeat, we'll sink it. Now, I'm gonna do this again. With extraordinary coordination, we repay the debt to the pensioners. This is coordination and we repay the debt to the pensioners. And now what I've agreed to a procedural proposal for. I say again in this Chamber, but not for the first time, and probably not for the last time will I say that Erjavec, President of Desus, has never said that there will be thousands of euros in pensions, but he said, "if those who have taken quite a lot of amounts in their pockets can also have thousands of euros in pensions." However, the second problem is that Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek actually proposed a 10% reduction in pension. And, of course, she had to agree with the President of the Government for a while, and later she only realized that this would be a mistake, and we managed to keep it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u231	Mr Member, I would like to remind you that I did not understand from your debate what your procedural proposal is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u232	To warn your colleague not to tell the false, to tell the truth in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The word has Dušan Šiško to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u234	Thank you, President. We've reached one point where we don't know who's sitting, what's being treated. The starting point was the position on the proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. Who's fucking around here? But he talks all the time, all the opinions were about pensions. Then why didn't we just point out the Additional Reconciliation of Pensions? I mean, I really don't understand you. Let's move on. SAB, Mr. Engineer, I must congratulate you. This is the first time I've seen a powerpoint presentation in the National Assembly. I haven't seen any Member yet to show what kind of pension scale will be. And when I look at these percentages -- look, you're a little funny, I'll say. Look, this one for 218 euros will get 78 euros up the SAB. I mean, that's funny. Come on, go one little good, maybe some pensioner is looking at us, now that there's no lemonade, they're listening to us. [[…]] The one with 2 000 700 euros will receive the same amount. After all, it says: EUR 246 minus. The difference is €54 per year. And this doesn't come for a month for one more power station. He won't be able to cover it. With the pre-election campaign – we have a nice pond in Krske, there are three in Brest, now we're stuck at the hydropower plant, there's a big pool where I tell you, there's a lot of fish in these hydro power plants. This reminds me of the campaign for the election of both Desusa and the Sab that they were hunting these poor pensioners, who will be the voice of any of the parties. What the Prime Minister once told me today, he told Mr Bandelli – that Erjavec had not said it. I went to watch a little bit. In 2008, he really wrote that whoever had millions of euros in assets could have thousands of euros in pensions. How did he figure it out, I don't know, but will he sell something every month, some piece of land or a fortune for a thousand euros so he can have a pension? I don't know how he imagined it. I won't think about it because I already told him he's a multipractice minister because he knows everything. But if I've offended anyone, Mr. Vice President, I apologize. Come in. Tell me, fight for some pensions – where are those pensions from disabled people who can't work? They have 270 euros, with 1. 1. In 2013, Zipers and, if I am not mistaken, cancelled the supplement. The greatest catastrophe, respected by all who look at us — not Members — because we know — is that this pension will not reach back, but from the day that it is confirmed in here. This is really funny if I read that the title of the point is only the last part, “and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions”. So, after eight days, since the Official Journal, pensions will only be raised to those who are about to retire. What about the back? Those who have broken their pension can still do what the law allows, and now they will retire — what will happen to those who do? We have such holes in this pension, so I think we should throw this point down, not vote on it at all, but let the government really sit down and set some limits on how much that minimum amount of pension is. By having 2 000 700 – Mr Vice-President, because you do not have the same salary as this pension, you will get an additional 78 euros up after these percentages. I mean, that's really funny. When I drive to Krske, there's a big jumbo poster, and I'm not going to mention what kind of person she's going to have now after her new pension. Elections will not be now soon, so that also the jumbo poster: we will produce no idea how many extras the pensioners will have, what benefits they will all have – pensioners can not yet go on vacation, and we are talking here about some Euros, small ones. It's a real shame. Then what does an engineer bring me here? A PowerPoint projection that I look forward to, and finally I see that for a master who has 650 euros, the difference of the month: year zero [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'd like to ask you, Mr. Bandelli, because when you discuss it, I'm silent. That's an interesting discussion you're having, and I'm never answering my phone. So I really don't know, well. Once you read the SDS that it only changes the agenda for migrants, that two words should be turned around and the committee should be convened again, and we are constantly shaking the same topic. Here it is clear that someone started copying the SDS, that in the end he wrote: “and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions”. I mean, I think it's funny. How am I going to vote on this? “God doesn’t know.” All I can say is, if I listen to this crap for five more minutes, I'm gonna pack up and wait until 11:00, when I hope I have at least a speech today, so I can wish you a good night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Chairman. It's true, I'll say, but it's a heated, controversial debate. But it's probably over 600,000 pensioners who don't understand it as such. More than two thirds of pensioners receive a pension that is lower than the average, so it is very important that these pensioners who are very difficult to live improve this status in some way. I will say, the way of coordination, the way of extraordinary coordination – this is an extraordinary event as a result of the good work of the Government, it is right that these benefits, which result from good work, are fairly and evenly shared among all pensioners. Each pensioner will receive 78 euros more. According to a proposal advocated by colleagues in Desus or in the SMC, a pensioner who receives 200 euros would receive 2 euros a month or 24 euros a year, a pensioner with 2,000 euros would receive 20 euros a month or 240 euros a year. So the difference is ten times. But we all have the same stomachs, we all feel the same way, or we all feel the same way, or one of them feels more strongly about the impressions we are witnessing to them, and it is true that this matter — perhaps we could call it something else — represents a correctional one. However, I would have responded to my colleague Hršek. You said you heard Mr. Chufer explaining something to someone. I'm not sure you speak English so well that you can understand it, but I don't want to be rude. So thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Thursday, 21 November 2019 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2020 and 2021 under the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andre Bertoncl, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u238	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Public Finance Act already provides that specificities relating to the implementation of the budget of a given year shall be regulated by the law on the implementation of the budget. The adoption of this law at the same time as budgets is necessary, as the budget does not contain provisions, these are articles governing material content. The main objective of the proposed law is to legislate solutions that are necessary in addition to the Public Finance Act in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the adopted budget. In preparing the proposed law, we have tried to ensure that there are as few provisions as possible that do not belong to it, so the proposed law has only changed to the most urgent extent compared to the law governing the implementation of the budgets for 2018 and 2019. The proposed law also contains provisions for which other system laws stipulate that they must be regulated in the annual law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law, in addition to the content for which the Public Finance Act provides that they should be regulated, provides for the use and recovery of European Union funds, prepayments, financing of institutions, specialities through the management and sale of assets, the level of the average, the preparation of financial plans for direct users of the budget, the employment policy and the establishment of an annual allowance for pensioners. Compared to the applicable law governing the implementation of the budget, the proposed amendments are specified. Article 8 specifies those business events which can only be recorded in the balance sheet by the municipalities. Article 16 adds the possibility of providing funds from the budget to the private institution one day before the day of payment of the operators. Article 21 recognises the new assigned revenue used for the implementation of investments and maintenance of public transport infrastructure under Article 3 of the Law on Automobile Charges, as well as the new assigned revenue referred to in Article 52 of the Law on Road Transport. In Article 32, a new exemption is added for the payment of investment transfers to entities established in accordance with the rules on protection and resolution in order to enable them to make payments from the budget one day before the date of payment of the operators. The possibility of liquidity borrowing by the State up to 10% of the last budget adopted is added and the provisions relating to the employment policy are slightly amended, i.e. Article 60. A 0.5% increase in the number of employees is allowed according to state 31. 12. 2019. The proposed law also sets a new average for 2020 and 2021. The majority of the annual pensioner allowance in five different classes is determined and the amount of the country's authorised debt and all the guarantees also changes. In relation to the average set by the Government in the proposed law, whose calculations fully follow the methodology of the Community Financing Act and its highest level in history and for the first time so far is the same, I would point out that the increase in the average over the spending rights provided for this purpose in the 2020 budget would constitute a discrepancy between the proposed law and the budget. In this case, taking into account that the calculation for 2020 is not accepted, temporary execution may take place. Taking into account that the implementation of the proposed law is necessary for the implementation of the accounts for 2020 and 2021, that the average level has generally followed the methodology for its calculation, and that a new proposal for 2021 is made for a new four-year period and that the proposed law does not contain substantially different arrangements covered by the applicable law governing the implementation of the budget, the honourable Members and Members, I propose that the amendment setting an average of the amount proposed by the Government and the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 be expressed support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 25th urgent meeting on 15 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Group on Article 54, the New Slovenia Group on Article 54 and the Coalition's Group on Article 8 and the amendment on Article 67a. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the Minister of Finance provided clarifications on the solutions that would allow for the current and smooth implementation of the country's budgets for 2020 and 2021 and focused on those provisions of the proposal for a law that are substantially changing in relation to the law in force. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service and introductoryly drew attention to certain inaccuracies and inaccuracies in the individual articles, to provisions which do not fall within this legal framework and constitute a derogation on the Systemic Law on Public Finance and would require an amendment thereof. She explained that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups had removed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the uncertainty or indefiniteness in the individual articles. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee focused mainly on Article 54 and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group and the NSI Group of Members proposing an increase in the average based on the actual costs of municipalities. In doing so, the debaters mainly supported the proposed amendment and stressed that, taking into account all the statutory tasks of the municipalities and their actual costs, it is necessary to raise the average in order to ensure the smooth implementation of their tasks. In doing so, they highlighted the importance of income as a basic source of funding for municipalities and cautioned against reckless measures which would mean a reduction in the state budget for this tax. The debate also expressed opposition to the proposed amendment and in this regard highlighted the need for sustainability of public finances. In the discussion below, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration explained that discussions and negotiations with stakeholders had taken place and were still under way, intensively, constructively and correctly, as always, but within the limits and limits given. The Government's working commission to reduce costs and administrative burdens of municipalities has drawn up a new law in this area. The Secretary of State has announced that the Government's legislation is expected to confirm this week, which is what it actually says this week. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendment of Article 54 of the SDS Group to Article 54, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 54 and the amendments of the coalition groups to Article 8 of the Act and to Article 67a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The implementation of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is an urgent and direct condition for the implementation of both budgets, both in 2020 and in 2021. The average is set at EUR 589.11 for 2020 and EUR 588.30 for 2021. The financing of local affairs is inseparably linked to competences, to statutory tasks and powers or to the rights and obligations of the municipalities. The most important and fundamental feature of the financial resources of municipalities is their proportionality with the scope of tasks, competences and responsibilities. It is significant that this year, as in previous years, this objective has not been achieved due to different views on calculation methodologies between the Government and representative associations of municipalities. The substance of the proposed amendments to the law on the implementation of budgets has determined that the extent of the country's authorised debt in 2020 will be up to EUR 591 million and EUR 2 000 741 million in 2021. On the basis of these provisions, it will be possible to charge primarily for refinancing, thus replacing the old debt with a new debt, under more favourable conditions as regards the maturity and the level of the interest rate. The state budget will create surpluses in both years, the expected result will be debt reduction – nominally and in the share of gross domestic product. The liquidity indebtedness of the country up to 10% of the revenue of the last budget adopted will be enabled. The proposed increase in eligible liquidity indebtedness is due to the changing situation in the euro area and other major monetary areas. The period of low but highly volatile interest rates is expected to continue. The proposal for a law provides for a new dedicated income to be used for the implementation of investments and the maintenance of public transport infrastructure. Prepayments will be made available for European Union funds, financial mechanism funds and Slovenian participation funds up to 30 % of the expected value of those funds, provided that the recipient is a person of private or public law and is established and acts as a society, private or public institution or institution. This provision is intended to speed up the use of European funds in particular and to facilitate the implementation of projects financed from the European Union. In addition, so-called start-up funds shall be provided to entities which do not have initial capital in accordance with their legal form. The draft law also specifies the amount of the annual pensioner allowance set out in the five classes. In the Desus Group, we advocate such a distribution of payments because the original purpose of this form of transfer has changed from a recreation allowance to a total social adjustment whereby pensioners are forcibly compensated for too low pensions. There are more pensioners with the lowest pensions, fewer pensioners with higher pensions, because we cannot define the annual allowance as a right on the basis of the contributions paid. The budget expenditure for next year will provide €145 million for the annual allowance. In addition, regular harmonisation of pensions by 3.5% will also take place at the beginning of 2020, estimated at €175 million in total. Ladies and gentlemen, we support the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years in the Desus Group, but not all, four out of five. The one who won't support it, I'm alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša is next. He will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u244	Dearly-respected present, one fine evening, especially for guests, representatives of the government or ministers! We have before us a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021, so-called Ziprs. As with the rebalancing of the 2019 budget, we are again listening to the comments of the municipalities on the low average when adopting budgets for 2020 and 2021. I agree that the average is low, too low. I also agree that the average should be calculated on the basis of the legal acts in force. But then why did the municipal associations negotiate about the average in Cerar’s government? The parishioners here act as an isolated part of politics. In my opinion, the vast majority of mayors are somehow linked to individual political parties, so these mayors should turn to their political thinkers to raise their average, either with the Government or with the National Assembly. On the other hand, mayors can also lower the costs of municipalities, such as reducing the number of employees. It is not heard in the media that any of the municipalities would drastically reduce the number of employees. Multipractices that are familiar in many areas should be employed in the congregations, and they should be paid honestly. I still think that it employs more domestically in the congregations. I don't know if there's any kind of congregation that checks on the knowledge or other quality of candidates. The Court of Auditors has almost always determined the non-economic use of funds in a congregation. So they're reserves. If the people of the mayors chose the ones that are the most decent and working, then there wouldn't be so much complaining about low averages. However, because there are many good rhetoric among the mayors who prefer to speak rather than work, the effect is not or is worse. Tax sources are only one source of funding. At a time when all of them are so ecologically informed, municipalities can increase environmental benefits. We could also improve public enlightenment in terms of smart villages and cities, when the lights start sensory, that is, when someone goes by. The municipalities, municipal services and municipal institutions can apply for various national and European tenders. It does not appear to me that we would be overly successful in drawing on European funds. Sometimes I feel like there's not enough ideas to report a project. The country jumped into cabbages when it increased tourist taxes by 25%. In view of the fact that most tourist charges are paid by foreigners, the congregations could increase tourist fees. The municipalities may prescribe a municipal fee for advertising, organizing exhibitions and events, parking and other activities. The municipalities may receive various donations. Some mayors thus receive the funds they spend on their citizens, while others are supposed to collect commissions only for themselves. In short, the municipalities have a completely free hand in earning their income, but it is true that they do not have all the municipalities of business and creative mayors. But the state budget isn't just the municipalities, it's a lot more. There's something good in this budget, something bad. That's the way it's always been. I will support the budget because this is how we agreed in our parliamentary group, but if I had this option, I would propose a completely different budget with much lower expenditure. I'm really upset about your record expenses. To this day, the Minister of Finance has not convinced me that at least he was trying to lower them. I know it's hard, but still. The Minister of Finance should protect any expenditure that is unnecessary that is without effect. Those expenses that are their own purpose. Those expenses that do not generate added value. The Minister of Finance should treat budgetary expenditure as a modest family. You buy what you need, and you don't buy what you don't need. No problem. If you're in debt, the question is, why did you do it? If the family is in charge of solving the housing problem, it is a good investment if it is in charge of expensive holidays, it is not very economical. Can you imagine how difficult it will be for the new finance minister to cut spending? Especially if the revenue goes down. Only then will there be the consequences of record budgetary expenditure. Any increase in expenditure should be justified by the Government — to whom, to what, to why. However, when the budget is adopted, we should tell by name and surname who is responsible for the derogations. Not only in the case of losses, but also in the case of budgetary surpluses. Let the people know who's doing a good job. Since we support the budget in the Slovenian National Party, we also support this bill. Thank you so much for your patience.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u246	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021. The law on the implementation of the budget is a law that enables the running and smooth implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we took a close look at this bill and focused mainly on the 54th Article of this Act, which deals with the averages for municipalities. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the Committee on Finance, which was approved by 11 votes and 8 votes to raise the averages for municipalities for 2020 and 2021. This means being replaced from €589 to €658 and the same number, €668, for 2021 as well. Now why did we table this amendment? We agree with the opinion of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia that the proposed average does not reflect the actual costs of municipalities and that the average should take into account the actual costs of municipalities rather than the average of the last four years, which do not show the actual situation. The fact is that a country imposes additional burdens on municipalities from year to year and does not cover these matters at cost. That is why we have also proposed to raise these averages in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that this amount can be covered under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, of course with some reallocations. The fact is that the Slovenian budget for 2020 has record revenues of almost 11 billion, only for tax revenues compared to 2014 will have around 2 billion and half more revenue. However, for investments in this same budget, the country earmarked only €81 million more than in 2014. We would also serve with some numbers, namely how much investment the country has been earmarked for individual municipalities after each year. For example, in 2008, the country invested EUR 223 million in individual municipalities, in 2009 147 million. Now we arrive in the last three years, in 2016 only 52 million, in 2017 56 million and in 2018 75 million. This means a steep decline in the country's investment by municipality since 2008 and 2009. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this stepmotherly attitude towards the municipalities cannot be good. The municipalities are those that also enable the development of the country, and the proposal proposed by the Committee on Finance, which was voted, has a kind of impact on the 2020 budget, ranging from 136 to 140 million. Approximately one percent of the income. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such a transfer can be found with good faith, namely the development of municipalities. Today's amendment by coalition parties, which foresees a reduction in the average of municipalities, will not be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that the amendment voted on by the Committee on Finance to the home labour body dealing with the budget for 2020 and 2021 is appropriate and that the majority of Members and Members on this Committee have also agreed. Once again, 11 votes to eight. We are confident that the amount of this average will also allow for the even development of municipalities throughout Slovenia and, of course, will also help to increase the standard of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government and colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budgets for 2020 and 2021, whose main objective is to adopt provisions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budgets adopted. The law is therefore directly linked to the implementation of the budget. If the law redefines or raises expenditure that is not available in the budgets for 2020 and 2021, the law and budgets are not harmonised, which results in us not being able to implement them. On Friday, the law was considered by the Finance Committee, which adopted an increase in the averages for municipalities at the request of the opposition. “It’s not a lot of money,” one of the proponents called for support. In the Marjan Šarc Letter, however, we must note that it is more than 140 million a year, which means not only that it is a lot of money, but it would also mean that the budget would not be in line with the law and would violate the fiscal rule that the SDS or the Social Democratic Party are in breach of. [[Lapsus linguae. The Social Democratic Party instead of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to which the President next responds.]] and New Slovenia in the previous term helped to design and adopt. That is why it is so much more interesting that these two parties are the proponents of something that would violate the fiscal rule they are advocating. Therefore, as a voice of reason, we have proposed an amendment which returns the average amount to the level of the government proposal. Why we decided to take such a step, despite the fact that the proposal is acceptable to the congregations and has been assured of decisive support in the Social Democratic Party [[Lapsus linguae. The Social Democratic Party instead of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to which the President next responds.]] , Levici and Novi Slovenija? The average proposed by the Government is 589.11 euros per capita, but does not appear to be high enough. In the Marjan Šarc Letter, we must also recall that by the end of 2019 the Government will be proposing to the National Assembly for the adoption of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, which will relieve municipalities of EUR 32 million, and we must not forget the resources allocated by the State budget to municipalities for investment. The government of Marjana Šarca is fond of the congregations. If municipalities had an average of EUR 551 per capita in 2018, the government of Marjana Sarca, in agreement with the municipalities, raised it to EUR 589.11 in 2019 and fixed it to EUR 589.11 for 2020. Together in these two years, we have raised the average for the poor 80 million euros, which does not include transfers to municipalities for investment and European funds. If the budget were to be allowed, the LMS would be happy to raise additional funds for the municipalities, but unfortunately this is not going quickly. We can only move slowly, step by step. Why? The law on the implementation of the budget must comply with Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in line with the State budget adopted, namely the Social Democratic Party [[Lapsus linguae. The Social Democratic Party instead of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to which the President next responds.]] , Levica and Nova Slovenija as acquaintances of the Rules of Procedure also know well. The adoption of the proposed amendment is therefore an essential condition for the implementation of the country's budgets for 2020 and 2021. Of course, supporters of the additional increase in funds for the municipalities are not interested in coordination in this case, nor are they interested in where and how to take additional funds, nor is it obvious that they are not in line with the fiscal rule. Those fiscal rules that are the crucibles of the development of our country, the fiscal rules that we want to amend in the List of Marjan Šarc, but unfortunately we do not have enough support to obtain the 60 votes we need to amend the Fiscal Rule Act. In addition, in the Marjana Sharca list in autumn 2020, we are ready to discuss the possible increase of the average for 2021 over €600, but only on condition that we will also provide funds in the budget for 2021 to raise the averages. We are aware that, at such times, each of us is under good pressure from the local environment in which he lives, but let us be realistic, the average proposed by the Government is record-breaking, while law is coming to the National Assembly that will relieve the municipalities financially. Let us bear in mind the fact that, if the amendment of the coalition is not adopted, the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the budget are not harmonised, which in no way means that the state will have no budgets for 2020 and 2021, and thus the municipality will not have any funding. So when we vote on the complement of the coalition, we also vote on the budgets for two years and vote on the highest funding of the municipalities so far. We are also voting on the increase in pensions, the guarantee to solve housing problems, the guarantee to build a third development axis, investment in railway infrastructure, science and development resources, social assistance and could still be listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u249	Madam Members, I ask you to complete your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u250	In the LMŠ Group of Members, we therefore believe that this decision is a matter of national competitiveness, of the ability to make responsible decisions in the interests of the whole country. That is why the list of Marjan Sharca amendments that we have tabled by the coalition parties will be supported. If our amendment is adopted, we will also support the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u251	Thank you very much. A colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party warned me that colleague Andreja Zabret had misrepresented the SDS as a Social Democratic Party, so I apologize on her behalf. Now let's get on with it. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Mr. Secretary, Secretary! After two days of budgetary discussion, it is appropriate to move immediately to the essence. The main theme of this item is a single article of this urgent accompanying law of each budget, to the average for municipalities over the next two years. Almost everything else has been said in the last two days. Let us reiterate that the Social Democrats have such a negative response to the Government's proposal, which fully respects the law in force in determining the amount of the average, we did not expect. Requirements for even higher averages are, of course, legitimate. The municipalities are increasingly taking over the tasks assigned to them by the state or caring for those whom no one else can or does not want to take care of. Thus, of course, the congregations deserve all the support, both financially and morally. However, the proposed average was significantly higher than last year. The municipalities would receive more than €32 million to carry out the tasks of the State. In doing so, it should also be noted that, through cooperation with the municipalities, the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law that would reduce the burden on municipalities in the following year by about the same annual amount, which is a new step in the right direction. Nevertheless, the Committee supported further amendments that further increase the means for the average. We have already stated in our opening position on the draft budgets that we are leaning towards dialogue, not ultimatums. In our view, however, there is slow progress in the field of cooperation with the congregations. Of course, there are concrete cases where there is no real dialogue. In recent days, we have made clear from the debate that in Gorenjska several concrete projects are clearly victims of a lack of real dialogue. Here, too, we must call for more listening and clarification and a more constructive approach by the authorities, because the local communities are a partner of the country and not its opponents. But these are just individual cases, and this is not a systemic phenomenon. Therefore, proposals to further increase the average, without prior agreement on the powers to carry out the duties of the municipalities, serve some only to encourage divisions between municipalities and the state. And it's no good to anyone. In the proposal for the amount of the average, which we believe has been prepared by the Government in good faith that it is going to the congregations, we need to attach to those who are advocating the basic proposal. That is why our parliamentary group is also a co-proposal of the amendment, which would determine the average for the next two years as proposed by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are about reality and not popularity. Therefore, Members of the Social Democrats and Members of the Social Democrats will be united in their support for Zipers and in their previous additions, which we have signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u254	Your Honor! The main objective of the law is to adopt solutions that will enable the implementation of the country's budget for 2020 and 2021. The adoption of the proposed law is necessary for the adoption of the law on its enforcement at the same time as the budget. Most of the content of this law is already laid down in the Public Finance Act, but it is still slightly different from the law governing the implementation of this year's budget. Some expenditure in the area of salaries of public officials, officials and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2020 is instead included in the so-called intervention law. The law deals with improvements facilitating the operation of certain public entities. The law also lays down, inter alia, the extent of the State's debt and the permitted guarantees. In the Modern Centre Party, we stress that we have succeeded in convincing the coalition into a set of housing policy measures, including the State guarantee for housing loans, EUR 200 million for each financial year. The measure is linked to amendments to housing legislation, which is still in public debate. This measure targets those who for the first time solve their housing problem and young and young families whose income or form of employment does not allow them to obtain credit. An additional €400 million will ease this problem over the next two years. The law also sets averages for municipalities in the coming years. The government sets an average of 589.11 euros for 2020 in the bill and 588.30 euros for 2021. Last week, the Committee on Finance confirmed that the average for municipalities was expected to increase significantly by 658.80 euros and 668.10 euros in 2021. This would burden the state budget for an additional EUR 137 million in 2020 and EUR 167 million in 2021. We objected to the proposed supplement in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre because it jeopardises the financial sustainability of public finances, as no additional funding is provided for the increase. I repeat, they're not secured. If this amendment is adopted, there will be a discrepancy between the budget and the law on the implementation of budgets. There will be derogations in the state sector, so the budget will not be in line with the fiscal rule – the President of the Fiscal Council also pointed out. This budget will differ significantly from what was proposed. The negative effects could require a reduction in the country's investment expenditure. In the Modern Centre Party, we stress that the average is defined as a four-year average and that the average amount of the amount actually calculated is fixed this year after many years. Compared to 2019, it increased by €32 million. In addition, the expert group composed of representatives of the Government and representative associations of the municipalities is 14. 11. 2019 reached an agreement on solutions in the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, which will be dealt with briefly in the Government. The purpose of the law is to reduce the costs of municipalities to carry out certain tasks by law, to reduce administrative procedures and to increase certain revenue of municipalities. It is indicative of more than €31 million in financial implications, most of which will be taken over by the state. We will support the coalition supplement in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, with which we will return the average to the municipalities on the original proposal of the Government. Otherwise, in the SMC, we point out that since the introduction of the new system of local self-government, we have been working to provide municipalities with sufficient own funds to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Constitution and laws, and thus provide them with financial autonomy. We are aware that a more thorough cut into the funding system will be needed in the future. This will be a long-term and difficult task, according to experience. Substantial changes in the Community funding system will be possible once the municipalities themselves agree, and the latter will be difficult to achieve in the fact that municipalities also oppose the Court of Auditors’ findings, which, inter alia, alerts or insists on the need to take into account the macroeconomic situation of the State sector when determining the average, i.e. the fiscal rule, which is also enshrined in the Constitution as the financial autonomy of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I'll start in a little more dark. We in Levica last year's Ziprs, the law on budget implementation, have supported, also because we have achieved that there has been a commitment in place, that the government will start hiring people who are now outsourced in various security services, cleaning services, agencies and so on and working for the country. We're talking about security guards, cleaners, technical staff who are hired by the state and the public administration, usually. Unfortunately, because we have two labour markets, we have a regular labour market and a second-rate labour market, we have said that the country should start to provide an example and employ these outsourced workers who tend to work on minimum wages in very poor conditions. In last year's Zipress, this was formed on a basis that allowed the public institutions to deviate by 1% from the human resources plans adopted. This is the way to get 587 jobs for these outsourced workers this year. Well, by the end of 2019 we'll have 10. Since 587 we'll get 10. The target is now falling, for an unknown reason, from a tolerance of 1% from the adopted human resources plans to 0.5%. In short, we have not taken any steps forward with outsourcing and the current Ziprs we have before us shows that nothing will be different or worse in the coming year. The second problem we have in Zippers is the average. There's a pretty simple problem here. If we wanted to raise the averages to the level voted on by the committee, which we also supported in Levica, we would need 130 million euros next year and 140 million euros in 2021. This is the amount that is practically identical to the amount that the Ministry committed a few months ago to increasing wages to a few percent of the best paid by changing the income scale. There we spent 130 million euros to raise wages, especially those above the two-fold average. And now: if we want to keep the average that we have, there is still a completely painless way of providing the means for it. It is easy to change the Income Act until the new year after the urgent procedure, where the last scale is deleted, the old scale is introduced back, no one is going to get worse; in the new year, all salaries in the country will remain exactly the same as they are, and money will be found to fund the congregations. You can take that as a suggestion. Third time. If I went to a slightly broader debate on Zippers, I would go to the budgetary framework. What we get from this budget is the continuation of the budgets according to the template set by Minister Marble. During the time of Minister Mumorr, the main direction of this country and the Ministry of Finance was debt. As you know, Slovenia was in the wake of the crisis – especially in 2013 and 2014, when it had to commit itself to saving banks, the financial sector, businesses – in financial markets in a bad way. At that time, the financial fiscal stabilisation of the state was necessary. If we move forward and arrive in 2020, we can find that Slovenia is among the under-indebted countries both in Europe and in the world, that there is no need, except for those which we impose on ourselves with excessive fiscal rules to create surpluses such as these – in 2021, the surplus is projected to amount to as much as €657 million. Think about what you could do with that money. It could be invested in modernisation of Slovenian railways, construction of apartments, abolition of supplementary health insurance, long-term care and so on. This is a serious amount that could make all this possible. Instead, we will – and you are investing it yourself – invest in debt payments that will go to banks in foreign ownership, and this money will be deposited with the European Central Bank because it has been heavily underinvested lately. That's how we give up our means of development. And these are the main reasons why we will not support Zippers this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Representative of the Government, a very nice greeting on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group! Our Group will complement the proposal for a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 as adopted by the Committee on Finance. However, we will not, of course, support the amendment now tabled by the coalition. I am sure that the Vice-President will allow me half a minute for controversy, as was done by my colleague from LMŠ Andreja Zabret, who has embroiled in the position of the non-controversy group, including with Novo Slovenija, about the fiscal rule that is the crumbly of development. Colleague Zabrett, let me remind you of the fiscal pact. This is an interstate agreement signed in March 2012. This House ratified this Interstate Treaty and this fiscal pact, officially called the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, then entered into force. 1. 2013 Your President and the President of the Government is a member of the European Council and should propose that this Treaty be terminated. This is, according to local say, a pillar that lays down new rules to prevent future outbreaks of new debt crises. Well, here's to the law or the position. It is normal that today's debate will mainly be on average, chieftains. In New Slovenia, we strongly represent the principle of subsidiarity, we understand what the European Charter of Local Self-Government means — self-government — and we also understand what everyone here is likely to agree — that the municipalities have been heavily fed in recent years. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. These same municipalities, Slovene municipalities, these 212 municipalities, have resolved and resolved the previous financial perspective as regards the use of European funds. Anyone who disagrees needs to take a little look at history. Why did we, New Slovenia and colleagues from the SDS, propose to raise the average from the government proposal for 2020, which is 589.11 euros, to 658,80 and 2021 from government proposal 580,30 euros to 668,10 euros? Simply because the Income Law and I have taken quite some money. Thank God the government has made up its mind, and all of you, that we have burdened the taxpayers. We have therefore burdened the work, for a nuance, for a cosmetic correction, we have increased the net salary, leaving some 100 million euros at the annual level for citizens and citizens of income. But according to the Law on Community Financing, which says that municipalities receive 54% of their income, we automatically took about EUR 54 million away from them. That's why we raised the average. To make up for it. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, today I have already told you, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will tell you that some of our primary schools are falling apart. We therefore called a meeting of the committee responsible in New Slovenia in early September to provide more money for kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. By 2023, there were 14 thousand 250 new primary schoolchildren, an average number. That's 750 units, and you didn't provide the money. We wanted to make a small contribution with this. I agree here with the thinking, with the idea, of Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration, who says that a new formula would be needed for the financing of municipalities, for the average and generally for the financing of local self-government. I couldn't agree more. Let us also talk in this direction and once come to some real solutions. However, if there is an aversion, this opposition to local self-government, as we have been recording it for several years, is also good to say that we should stop talking as soon as possible about the provinces, which are the second level of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you very much. As the last one, Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u260	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The draft budgets that we have already held a broad debate at this meeting, as usual, are accompanied by a proposal for a law on their enforcement or so-called Zipros. It gives the Government powers to manage the state budget and by borrowing and regulates the dedicated revenue and expenditure of the budget. In the SAB Group of Members, Alenka Bratušek, Zipers is considered a good one for the next two years. The latter sets out the extent of the country's debt and permitted guarantees and the extent of the public sector's debt at country level in a given year. It also provides specific powers for the Government, the Ministry of Finance, the managing authority and other direct users to implement the country's budget for 2020 and 2021. Various powers are laid down in this context, and in particular powers to entrust the Government with a fiscal stabiliser are important. The proposed law also sets out, inter alia, the extent of the obligations that users may assume in the current year and which will fall into payment in the coming years. The proposed law also regulates the use and recovery of EU funds, prepayments, financing of institutions, specificities relating to the management of financial assets, averages, preparation of financial plans for direct budget users, employment policies and the establishment of an annual pension allowance. The proposed law does not differ significantly from the current regulation, but I will nevertheless point out a few points. If I first touch the biggest stumbling block, these are the averages, I would like to point out that in the SAB we are aware of the potential problems of the assigned height, so we will support the supplement, which reduces the average height back to a manageable level, unanimously. On Friday, the Committee on Finance confirmed the addition of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups to a significant increase in the averages for the municipality, which would lead to a significant deficit and a lack of compliance with the fiscal rule if adopted. We would not want to jeopardize the adoption of our country's most important document because of the reckless and impulsive actions of some Members, including coalition members. Of course, we all want higher averages for congregations, but the facts are clear. Those who have proposed an additional budget burden of €140 million should first say where the funds will be taken from. They're not in the budgets. The supplement I wanted to mention was the extension of the State guarantee from legal entities to natural persons. On the one hand, we will guarantee the State's guarantee for large infrastructure projects such as the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper and the third development axis, and on the other hand, the proposed level of guarantees also provides guarantees for citizens' credits that for the first time solve the housing issue and their form of employment or the amount of income does not allow them to obtain credit on their own. Such natural persons are young, young families, contented, and so gives. In the SAB Group, we are very pleased to have another important part of our programme, and this is the concern of the young party for young people. These are the right solutions to be discussed, measures that have a positive impact on the quality of life of our citizens. If I continue with the next item, this is an annual allowance for pensioners. Although we have reached a consensus on the level of payment of this supplement, I must point out again that in our view we should regulate it in a system law, not that it is to the mercy and mercy left to every single government. In the SAB we are convinced that the only real solution is the regulation of the annual allowance in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The latter should clearly record its height and dosing conditions. If, in the future, the public financial capacity to pay the annual allowance in the system law would not allow, however, we see a fuse in a provision which, in the case of limited public financial capacity, would exceptionally allow the regulation of the annual allowance in the law on the implementation of budgets. This is the only way to end annual bidding at the expense of pensioners. Let me mention here the important added funds which are intended for the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021. With them, Slovenia has every opportunity to effectively fund the Presidency for greater visibility and promotion. Otherwise, it seems to us that the law on amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget corresponds to its definition and consists of only the necessary amendments necessary for the smooth implementation of the budget. In the SAB Group, we will unanimously support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Since I see it's an interest, I'm going to open an application to the debate. Please sign in. We've got five reported discussers. The first is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, and Mr Robert Polnar is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. I, of course, strongly oppose the amendment that has now been tabled on the basis of the amendment adopted on the Committee. I strongly object because it's not true that there's no money. With such a rich budget, the richest budget, enough money is enough. All that matters is how this one is deployed. I will return only to those expenditure that was at the end of today's budget item when we discussed expenditure on goods and services. Expenditure on goods and services and office supplies and other operating costs – look, we've heard there's a lot in here. I was holding my head. Military exercises, consulates, material costs. Office material, consulates, military exercises. And of course a lot of other things. At the same time, I wonder what happens to the budget in the area of defence, for example. Because military exercises are somewhere else. I wonder what the budget at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is then, because consulates are elsewhere. And what is more, then, my question — what else is hidden under all the other items? What do we actually have by item if we can have special material and services, other operating costs, consulates and military exercises under office material? With this budget, something is very wrong, Your Honor. And let me tell you something else about numbers. In 2014, the other operating costs amounted to 122 million. In 2020, the second operational costs will be 171 million. You know what happens in 2021? These costs will increase to EUR 307 million. And we are talking today or at this amendment about 130 million that there are none. Now I've shown them to you, with one simple case I've shown you. Or, if we look at special materials and services, I don't know, 213 million. Don't say there's no money, tell them you don't want to give it to the congregations. Now I wonder why you don't want to give it to the congregations. I wouldn't laugh like that in the SD, and you also have some mayors who are probably wondering what's going on today, what's going on, that one congregation can't have an average of – or sometimes we said – principals — like actual costs. That's enough money. All you have to do is distribute it. And now to return to that amount. Look, I was just interested in these numbers and I'm actually thinking, in 2020, there would be about €69 more on average and capital. Believe me, for these 69 euro municipalities, this money will be used much better than the country with the office material on the other hand. Believe me, they will take advantage of it much better, even for some extra place in retirement homes or for the elderly, if you are closer, even for some more space in kindergarten, even for some activities in the municipality more, even for some infrastructure project more. On the other hand, the table showing how much the State has invested in municipalities is devastating. I'm showing it here because of citizens and citizens. See, in 2009 147 million, in 2016 52 million. And when I took one of the congregations, Dol near Ljubljana for example – it has nothing to do with my constituency, that no one will say anything – it won in more than 10 years, it is between 2007 and 2018, 7 000 500 euros, for investments, respected. Seven thousand 500 euros. And today you are making an amendment, if, the municipalities this money, not that they don't deserve it, but there is no way in the budget that this money will be redistributed. Now I've told you it can be reassigned. It would be perfectly logical to transfer it to congregations, for once again, the congregations are much better than the state. And they do a lot more with these funds. Remember how we tricked the congregations when we reduced the average and promised them that we would replace it with other measures. It wasn't any of that. We took the thirstys across the water. Today, when we have a very rich budget, when we can also help local self-government, which actually cares about our development, we are looking for excuses not to do so. Thus, €69 for 2020 per head or €79.80 per head in 2021. This is the money you are discussing today that the congregations do not need it, and we say that they need it and that it is right to get it and that it is money. And of course, with this somehow also all those who said in their positions, it is nice to hear, we would like to give the congregations, but there is no where to take it from – I told you, and we will reduce the other operating costs a little bit while the money is on the table. There's money on the table. So don't make a fool out of citizens and citizens. Because you're messing with this fool when you say there's no money. We talked about the reconciliation of pensions before, we talked about one and a half euros and six and a half euros. Look, let's smile. We smile in front of citizens and citizens. They write me mail that sometimes I'm ashamed to really be sitting in the National Assembly. Because they say, don't make a fool of us. You're making a fool of yourself, and that's the wrong thing to do. It would be good if you could listen to the Minister come and say, "Here, I'm putting a counterproposal, maybe it's too high, it's not too high, let's do something, let's compromise." It's not like that either. We have such a hero minister that he says I'm going anyway. You know, that's how my kid did it when he was three years old -- either I get candy or I don't go, or I'm gonna cry. That's how it is. But that's not how it works in a serious country. With the richest budget, the Minister is afraid of one amendment for the 150 million I have just found for you. And yes, we've seen a lot of projects that our congregations need, even from the budget, when we've explained the amendments. We have been able to see and hear what the congregations must do or in what circumstances some of our citizens and citizens are living in. It's a periphery, from the roads, and so on. And why don't we just leave them this money? It's money, you know, because it's not more than they expect or anything to hang them. It's the base they need for smooth operation. You know, I used to find it very funny in one of the positions, and I think the SNS, who said yes, then let the mayors lobby their MPs, and those who have more power, then let them abuse it. Is that how we're gonna talk now? This is how we're going to talk about municipalities now, which mayor is going to do a little bit better than that? This is the policy represented by this coalition? I guess so. Because these are the same people who said how they welcomed this new amendment to the parties that arose under the request or the tactic of the Minister of Finance. I don't know if you really want to give the municipalities or if you're so afraid the minister's gonna leave because you don't have another option. I seriously wonder why you're so afraid for 150 million. Because, as we say, at 11 billion for 150 million, you really don't have to say that they can't be found. And as I say, believe me, for this money, the use of these funds by our congregation is far more responsible than the state will be. It's from where they're in the budget. Regrettably, indeed, some good work was done on the committee, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia was supported, most voted in favour of the average rising to this level – today you obviously kneeled before the taste of the coalition. Turn from the height, they say. But you know, it hurts. But it hurts. Above all, it hurts to walk in these small congregations and see how they struggle with these means and really could do anything else. While, on the other hand, I said, the State for investments, for example, Municipality of Dol pri Ljubljana aims from 2007 to 2018 7 000 500 euros. I didn't even count on anyone else. At the same time, of course, he's committed the most to Ljubljana and Celje is close, but let's just leave it, I'm not going across the entire scale. But she's sad. So I only hope that there will be any further reflection, yet it will overcome the knowledge that this money is, that it can be redeployed and that it is worth redistributing and enabling the municipalities to better operate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanus, you don't have a replica yet because you haven't discussed it yet. Mr Robert Polnar has the following word, and Mr Marko Bandelli is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The financial resources of local authorities must be in proportion to the tasks laid down by the Constitution and the law. This is one of the fundamental principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is also a signatory to Slovenia and which, as far as the financing of local self-government is concerned, is a dead letter on paper. This is its kind of curiosity because, for example, we are consistent with the rules imposed on us by the European Commission and the European Central Bank with regard to public debt repayment, or more papal as a pope, but in financing our own self-government, we turn to European documentation as if it were not at all. The average cost of funding municipal tasks is actually the subject of debate today. On the part of the Government, we have heard that the average is calculated in accordance with the law and that it is optimal that it cannot be better. We have received slightly different information from representatives of representative associations of the municipalities because these ladies and gentlemen are based on the practice of everyday business and well know how local self-government is financed. There are three different areas, namely, the Government and the representatives of the municipalities cannot possibly agree on how to evaluate the new tasks in the municipalities for 2020 and 2021, those new tasks which have been defined by all ministries in the Government as tasks to be performed by the municipalities. The Slovenian Community says that for 2020, an additional 27.8 euros should be allocated to the average for these new tasks and for 2021 37.1 euros. The government says no. That's another thing. How much to define the increased labour costs in 2020 and 2021? It is also a matter which cannot be harmonised between the Government and the representative associations of the municipalities. There's no such thing as cohesion. And third, the most important issue, what the government representatives refer to as the Bible, is this remarkable methodology for calculating the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks adopted in 2018, arbitrarily in the National Assembly without any cooperation with representatives of municipal associations, and which simply provides that the average costs for the financing of municipalities are to be taken into account for the average of the last four years rather than the actual costs of the last year. And here's the biggest breakthrough. Why? That average of four years can significantly reduce the basics and, above all, significantly corrupt the picture of what the congregations really need. And then we hear here that everything is coordinated and that everything is actually optimal. Nothing is harmonised and nothing is optimal, because it cannot be, as long as they are not the basis of convergence negotiations, but clearly divergent positions. Ladies and gentlemen, local self-government is essentially anti-government. That's what we need to know. Why is it that the local authorities take power and take power in a partial form? This is constitutionally established and also accepted in all normal countries. Therefore, it is the natural reaction of state authorities to try to restrict local self-government. And that's not something that's unusual. And this limitation is a fact that we must take into account when we are talking about financing local self-government, but above all in future prospects we must overcome such a restriction in every way. Given what is happening in Slovenia, such a restriction can only be exceeded in the National Assembly, in the legislature and elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2011, the average for municipalities was 554,50 euros. In 2018 it was 573,50 euros. In seven years, we have made growth at an average of 3.4%. And today I am listening here to how the average rises substantially in seven years by 3.4%, just because the average fell dramatically and reached the bottom in the second half of 2015 when it was 519 euros. I hear comments that the increase for 2020 from 589.11 to 658.80 is abnormally high. And that the rise for 2021 from 588,30 to 668,10 is equally abnormally high. Please listen to this, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014, five years ago, the average for municipalities was calculated by the Ministry of Finance, namely EUR 669. Well, that was a normal thing to do. It is true that it was realised at EUR 536. It's supposed to be something special today. No, no, no. That's perfectly normal. If we look ahead. In 2015, the average of 662.68 euros and 2016 652.60 euros were calculated by the Ministry of Finance. It's all within these gabarits that we're talking about today. However, as I said last time in the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, it was significantly lower in income in those years and that the country was not in its own budget and had the resources to make it up to the municipalities. Therefore, it is important when we talk about the average, that we also think about the perspective. We, ladies and gentlemen, have a maximum level of expenditure at the level of local government in the Framework Decision on the preparation of the country's budgets for 2020 and 2021: 2 000 320 million in 2020 and 2 000 360 million in 2021. This is very clear in what sense local self-government is an extremely important state subsystem and how to be extremely careful that this subsystem is adequately funded. Let me tell you with concrete examples, from 2011 to including 2019, what it looked like, for example, in the case of the Municipality of Šentjur, from which I come and where I was eight years a sub-officer, funding from the average. With us, the income structure of the municipal budget is an extremely important source and represents more than 65% of the total revenue. In the years from 2011 to 2019, we had, according to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in the income budget for 17 million and 300 000 euros less than we should have at the Ministry's calculations. The revenue capacity of the congregation of Šentjur varies between €16 million and €17 million in one financial year. In fact, in eight years we have lost one entire municipal budget. Such municipalities are in Slovenia, I speak through the thumb, probably between 80 and 100. At least. These are very serious things that place local self-government in such a light that it actually has to care that it survives, not invests. The main task of local self-government is also investment. In 2020, it is envisaged that revenue will flow to the budget by EUR 2 000 719 million. This value is divided into three parts: the municipal budgets, the state budget and the budget or the income as an additional source of funding for the capital. A thousand and 235 million euros will be allocated to municipalities, a thousand and 469 countries, and the difference of about 15 million under the special law for additional financing of the capital. The country therefore has a thousand 469 euros. I am saying this because I wish to stress that we are facing a policy which I am also a coalition Member, but I do not agree with this policy, and I must say it publicly. With a policy that is not capable or unable to design alternatives. If it is not able to do so, then it is no longer a policy. And this is my key dilemma in the debate on the financing of municipalities on average. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something else about that famous Slovenian claim that the country gives something to the municipalities. The government doesn't give the congregations anything. The one we're giving the country is us taxpayers. In a specific case, all those who pay their income. The income of the State, through its compulsory financial administration, collects it and then redistributes it back to the municipalities. And they're redistributing what we paid for because we want to have contradictions. However, anti-trust services are referred to as quality local public services. And that's on the table today. This is a problem facing us: water supply, separation, wastewater treatment, child care, primary education, provision of fire and rescue services, and further throughout the system. That's what we're talking about today. These services are provided by these means. The fact that we have quality kindergartens, that people are satisfied with having good teachers and extremely quality material conditions for child care, has not fallen out of the sky. This is the credit of the congregations. And that's what you need to know. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. They're asking me these last few days why I'm going to stand up to my own government. See, as far as local self-government is concerned, the thing that far exceeds the relationship between left and right, which far exceeds the world-view definition or the idea direction, however you look. When we talk about local self-government, we are talking about every inhabitant of this country. Everyone is either a citizen or a citizen. There's a million and a half of us who pay our income. And that goes way beyond any antipodal relationship. I am thinking in particular, absolutely not going to support the amendment tabled by the government, because I am defending the position that what the representative associations of the congregations have drawn up is the right thing to do. It's mainly about whether I'm going to do the right thing or whether I'm going to do the wrong thing. In this case, I'm sure I'll do the right thing because I have experience and I know exactly what I'm talking about. You know, I know very well what it means when they lower your average from 554 to 522, what that means in the budget structure for next year. I understand that very well. And if we pull the analogy by either lending or borrowing the municipalities. We can adhere to that provision in the Law on the Financing of Communities, which speaks of what the highest level of debt is. We can always be below this level, but this does not mean that we, at the same time, will be able to settle our obligations in a liquid way at the level of the congregation. That doesn't mean anything. And you don't think that 658,80 and 668,10 is enough. It's not enough. But it's what's right under the law. There's something else I'd like to say for the end. Last time I listened to someone on the Finance Committee who said that in Slovenia we also have municipalities that have too much money. I can only tell such a man one thing: get in the car, go to that congregation and drive around that congregation, and let him see only the things that are visible. The pipelines, they won't see the sewers, because they're underground. He will see local roads, he will see public roads, he will see some categorised roads, he will see public lighting, he will see public buildings, he will see from cultural homes, kindergartens, elementary schools, and then he will assess if these municipalities are really so rich that they have too much money. A little too much demagogy around this is a little bit too much to look at, but in particular, at the numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Marko Bandelli, and Mrs Iva Dimic is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Comrade Polnar, as a former mayor, how should I disagree with your words? I think [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u267	I can ask for some peace in the Chamber and also respect for the fellow who is discussing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u268	Basically, I wanted to say that as mayor, I completely understand all the words that have been expressed. The problem in certain congregations is greater, in certain congregations is smaller, and I will also tell you why. I will also tell you where the problem is the financing of our municipalities, why at the moment the funding system of our municipalities is wrong. Now let's be clear, we will support that amendment absolutely, because it is also. It is also true that what Polnar said is a major problem in the functioning of the municipalities itself because of the lack of funds. On the other hand, rational, sober thinking is needed, and the problem of funding municipalities in a different way needs to be tackled. All of us mayors have always said that we lack money, we have too little money, the state imposes too much on us. I don't know if you know what the congregation's obligations are. Some are calculated, for example, with regard to appropriate spending and other things to be done, but there are many such matters that could be solved in a different way. For example, I don't know if you know it or not, an autopsy. All autopsyes are on the back of the congregations. Why? Why must they be on the shoulders of the congregations? That's supposed to be a necessity. Then it's the next case. Dogs and cats. That's exactly what I was gonna say right now. Dogs and cats. But you know what a huge cost this is for the congregations. We in our congregation will also tell you where the biggest problem is. I think there were 8 to 10,000 euros per year for a small municipality with 3 000 600 inhabitants. You know what this means for a city congregation that has quarantines every day. It's something absurd. One problem that would relieve the municipalities is the extinguishing and rescue facilities, official institutions. Employees in these institutions are paid by the municipality and fall under the Ministry of Defence. When the unions spoke about increasing their salaries, the congregations were not questioned. But the salary goes from the municipal budget. I have repeatedly proposed that we start thinking about going directly to the Ministry of Defence with the GRS. That would be a relief. Now we can say that the congregation has too little money or is misdistributing that money. That's one way to go, too. You know, there's always too little to say. We've got 10 billion and a half budgets, and there's still not enough money. We have one billion more budgets than in previous mandates, and there is still not enough money. There'll never be enough money. We need to start thinking about doing a good job with that money. And here's the problem. That's what I wanted to say earlier. What are the sources of funding provided by the congregation? One is transfer revenue from the state budget, the other is own resources, that is, mainly taxes and debt. In the second phase of its own resources, it is calculated that this is approximately 55% of the resources. And here I'm going to relate to the problem, to the wrong system for calculating this mean, because the development of municipalities is not taken into account, because the squares of municipalities are not taken into account, because the population of municipalities is not taken into account. There are problems with certain congregations. Let me immediately say that those who think that we will reduce the number of congregations and thus solve problems are the biggest mistake of thinking that I think. Congregations and people living in those congregations are developing and growing, thank you to the congregation. Since the municipality is the one doing the project and development programme in that place at local level, not the country. The municipalities are those who apply for calls for European funds, as this is also a source of funding. As long as it is. We don't know how long it's gonna be. One source of funding for municipalities, we said NUSZ, is compensation for the use of building land. How much this amounts to, as a percentage of the congregation to the congregation, depends on how much real estate there are, what activities there are, how many craft zones, how many construction plots, how many agricultural plots, how many vineyards. It's all that so-called NUSZ. And here is a source of income for the congregation. Some congregations have higher, others have lower. When the ZUJF was adopted, this was stopped, so even the municipalities could not regulate themselves internally with this parameter. It is illegal to change the NUSZ in municipalities at the moment. We didn't give a chance to do this. Because before the ZUJF was adopted, some raised the NUSZ when we calculated certain things, the new real estate tax would not stand out from previous those parameters. That would be the same price. Same. There are, however, some other congregations that have been a little bit backward with this increase, which now have problems and problems, because when the property tax is passed, it will be three times higher because they had previously low NUSZ. On the other hand, I think that real estate tax will be one of the most important sources of funding in the municipality. But if it is not a country, we or the government are so devoured that that percentage will raise what will be to the congregations and how many to the nations. Because it has not yet been said that the tax will go to 100 % of the municipalities. That wasn't the deal. At least for once we don't know it yet. We haven't got anything on the table yet. But here's a possible source of funding. Methodology as such for calculating the average. I'll give you one case. I will give you an example of my congregation, which I had and led, and I will give you an example of a classical congregation that you know, such as Izola. Where's the difference? Costs. My municipality, I always say mine, because I still live there and I am a citizen of this municipality, has 104 square kilometres and 3 thousand 600 inhabitants. The municipality of Izola, however, I think it has 27,000 square kilometres, which is 4 times less, and it has 16,000 inhabitants. Since it is concentrated in the city, it has 5 times less public lighting, has 5 times less water supply, has 5 times fewer municipal roads, has 5 times less total costs for the transport of children to school. But we had 35 kilometers from one point, that's one village, to the last village where we had to pick up the kids. There are problems that need to be solved. It is important to start thinking about a different methodology for funding municipalities. The easiest thing is to say, now we raise and give money. There'll never be enough resources. Congregations need to be taught to do what is right. It is necessary to calculate how one congregation receives more money and another little less. Here's the problem. I have always said that this average is not fair to certain congregations; it is not fair to some other congregations. Some would survive with a smaller average, and some would not come out even if there were 700 euros. These are very important tasks. Look, now there's going to be a problem with cleaning appliances soon, and I don't know how we're going to solve it in Slovenia. We're transmitting, we're transferring, we're transferring, but one day this transmission will be over. Now we're gonna have to get these things ready. Now, you tell me, if we don't, I don't know, in the next perspective, we're going to be able to finance cleaning plants, how one municipality is going to fund its cleaning facilities. From where? Are we going to go into a small cleaning system, co-financing of small cleaning appliances? This is also a better option, as we have demonstrated throughout Slovenia that general large cleaning plants in certain places are not the right choice. They're not the right choice. I'll tell you the Crassus case. It's a mistake. Because the cleaning system had been scattered before, and now it's concentrated in just one place and it's all going into the groundwater. So we can't always say that one marriage is the same for everything. This is a very wrong thing to do. Here I think we really need to start thinking about how to fix this. There are major errors here and that is why funding is also a problem. Money really isn't enough for certain things. We're gonna have to work together here. Look, even the provinces, if we do them, but they will, if they will or will not, you need to know what the provinces will do, what their task will be. They were shut down in Italy. In Italy, the provinces were abolished because they saw that it was out of touch. And now we're going to make the landscape. It is okay, but we need to know what the task of these provinces will be, what will they do, what will be the jurisdiction of the provinces, or whether they will take up certain state roads, take over certain common services, take over security, I don't know, whatever. You also have to take a little look at what's going to happen, not just to say, it suits me that it's a country to get to one end, and they have nothing to do with us because it has another phone number. This doesn't make any sense, it needs to be put out of your mind and you need to know what will come of this landscape. Joint services are important here. There is also one system that will be able to defuse the costs, fixed costs of the municipality, because here is the biggest problem. You know, we can act like mayors. I was the mayor and the most hated for the first three months, because I interrupted the call where the two children were taken. The law speaks of one removal of children from school. After six months, they came to praise me, kids at 2. 20 of them were all home. Those who ended up at noon did their homework at school, and the moms were happy that they didn't have to be with them, the ones who ended up later came and ate there what was needed. But now it was all right! Do you know how much I saved? In one term 440 000 euros were written data. 440 thousand euros. You need to know how it's done. The mayors are administrators. That's what they call them everywhere. So it's the ones who need to know how to work with money. It's too easy that every society comes to you, the one with the psoriasis, the one that has and then you give it to everyone. [[…]] Then someone comes in with a book and writes inside one of your villages, and I buy 4,000 copies, and then I don't know where they are. I got three cubits of books in there, and I didn't know what to do with them. I'm talking about why, Minister. I believe it is still possible to optimize these matters here because there are a lot of reserves in these congregations. Like seductions. Every smart plan that came out of the office was 10% higher. And then you put him down for 15, and you came up with almost the same thing. In fact, you fucked up because I showed you to give them a few percent less and just do the same. Since the institutions don't have borders, they just make an annual plan and raise 10%, if that's what we're going to negotiate. No, no, no. It's not like that. I'm talking about any department. Library. What a problem! There was nothing missing, only everyone saw more and more. And that's why there's never this limit, you can't ever end it. Where's that border? Where's that ending when you need that kind of money? Before that, did I set the example of a congregation — big or small? Or one that has a lot of population on small squares or vice versa. There are also municipalities that are in a hilly area that spend a third of their money just for climbing. And everything falls into the same parameter of this appropriate consumption, these averages. Here, I think we need to start thinking first and foremost with the Minister of Local Self-Government to make one different system, one methodology, why one congregation needs more and the other does not. I was a member of the association, I was a representative of the association, and I saw what was true and what was not. If it were because of me to say something, Maribor should have his own marriage, just like Ljubljana. Two seats. That should be it. I said that a long time ago. So let's solve once and for all the various problems that arise there. There's just so much that it should have its own funding. Then the city’s congregations come as those who are never satisfied. Never. Then we come little ones who are just as never satisfied with anything. But here you have to make different rules of the game and choose a methodology to be able to finance this matter in a different way. And once again, Minister, the one who says that money is missing, that it is necessary to raise EUR 100 to the surface, he has never worked with money, with the congregation as a good administrator. Because everything can be done. In four years I have been working on the restoration of the cultural heritage of the city of Stanjel – if you are going or if you are going to go or if I suggest you go to look – with your own resources, in part with the 21st article, which also came right, we must not forget this, because everyone forgets it, besides the average we have this source of funding. Even if you are in debt, it does not fall into the congregation’s debt. So that's it, then. We made big investments, and I ended up leaving 600,000 euros in cash. 600,000 euros. But I did get 200 euros minus. It is also said that it depends on the mayor, on the right administrator and depending on where you take the municipality. What are the O.N.s? These are acts that give you direction, give you a developmental direction where you want to take the congregation. Will you wait and then go to the inn and say you can't do anything? Because we know what it was like. This is how a lot of mayors went, "I can't work, I don't have money". You don't have the money because you can't manage money! And that's the basis of everything. And then there are those fixed things, where I'm really afraid, about cleaning appliances and these things, and the plumbing repairs. The ones who missed these things, the different calls that were taken wrong, here I said at SVRK that it shouldn't happen so much that you wait until midnight and one second and the one who first hit the mark got the invitation and 2 million. The one he really needed didn't get it because he gave it at midnight and 3 minutes. Such types of tenders may no longer take place. This is also the task of individual departments as such. This is all development, so I'm saying all this. We're all saying this because of this money, and because of this problem that would have arisen at this point in time, if we had confirmed it at this stage of 100, and I don't know how many millions more. I'm sure there are really needs of the congregations, I'm sure you'll have to get it here, but not in this way on the committee to accept these things, I'm putting it on my heart. We need to take this very seriously and look at what are the real needs. I believe there are certain congregations that will literally not bring them through the system. Look, the increase in these salaries, I've mentioned this a lot, and a lot of money is being collected here by the congregation. Don't think you don't. A lot of money, a lot of money. The salary was not raised solely by the employees, but the wages were raised by all those institutions financed by the congregation. A spindle, for example. Two-grade promotion. There are about 200 employees per thousand children in kindergarten. So you understand a little bit what these numbers are. Then the firefighters come, because you can't do without firefighters. When you start making a budget, the first firefighters to come to you to knock: Will you lower? We won't. Now I speak so little in general. That's why I'm saying there's a problem. I think that's right. Now this amendment to put it in its original state is right, and I will defend it too. However, I am absolutely advocating that the debate on municipalities should be opened, that a different methodology should be seen and that there are opportunities and opportunities for communities to access different sources. The municipalities have to work on development. The municipality is the only institution that does local development, rural development, and no one else. The state deploys and ministries do their part, but the municipalities are developing in those locations and doing business climate and the economic environment in one way or another. And that's what it is. And here will be the problem number two – I am warning this many times, and this is our ministry, and I am still emotionally attached to what I started – and this is about programming. You need to know, this will be a very important task. So that we don't miss here, what they're going to be, or if the priority axes are still going to be, what we're going to put in here. So we don't shoot each other in the knee like we shot each other last time. But we need to be careful here, and we need to know what's going to happen, and we need to do it. I'm sure we'll do it right, and if it's confirmed, the new candidate will be able to move on. I took advantage of this almost all the time, but I took advantage of this opportunity because there was no other way to say it, especially with regard to the financing of these congregations. With regard to the reasons why I am going to confirm this amendment to the original border, because I know that there are needs, because we know that there are needs for it, but we also know that this is not the right way at this point. That's all I wanted to say -- it's not the right way. In a different way, it is necessary to start thinking about financing the actual costs of the municipalities and to look at the way in which they need them, especially taking into account the development factor when we do not know what it is or what it is. And there are precise factors for each congregation individually. But we'll talk about it another time. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. I could tell I had such a good school 20 minutes on local self-government. Thank you, colleague Bandelli, for all of us having the opportunity to see how the municipal administration works or what the congregations must do. But I would return first to the 50th article of the amendment proposed by the coalition's parliamentary groups. In the first and second paragraphs of Article 50, the word “and natural persons” shall be inserted after the word “legal persons”. It is said that this amendment also foresees state guarantees for citizens’ loans that for the first time solve the housing issue and that the form of employment or income does not allow them to obtain credit on their own – young, young families, on their own. It is said that the 50th Amendment provides a state guarantee for citizens and citizens who will for the first time solve the housing problem. The second paragraph states that the scope of the new State guarantees issued under the Law on guarantees for loans to domestic legal persons will now be physical, and in 2021 it must not exceed the total amount of principals, that is EUR 800 million. So my question is, how many of these 800 million euros will be earmarked for these housing loans, if I may say so? How much money is that for? In case it's just some dead letter on paper, I think it's a shame that you've even started preparing this amendment. As far as the debates that have already been held today are concerned, otherwise the three of you were in front of me and the position is right. The municipalities were really fed on average all the time. That what they did, they did, they did, I believe that every euro as well as they could cash it. How do we know that? This is what all the citizens living in these congregations know, because we too had great desires and had to give up on many people or some kind of investment has been postponed for some year, two, and five. However, I think the time has come for such a record budget to enable municipalities to actually start serving us citizens, the local community, which means that we have citizens, citizens, and also the right to some normal conditions in a particular municipality, in a particular place, as regards either municipal roads, or plumbing, or sewage network, what was said yesterday, or quality kindergartens. The municipalities must also cover certain obligations laid down for primary education. In short, a lot of expenses. And it also depends on how and in what congregation we live, how much we have to pay for the treatment and drainage of wastewater. Certainly, I remember my colleague, Polnar, when we were three, four years ago in Ponikva together at an event where he was a mayor, we talked about how they were doing in the municipal budget, he said, "We are one of the largest municipalities in Slovenia with the number of kilometres we have to sail." I think he said about 600,000 euros was just for creeping. [[advertising from the hall]] Short two. Well, then a million 200. Thank you so much for fixing me. I remember that well. You know, a million 200 for a congregation like St. That's unimaginable. It is high time that this headgear or average rises. Why is it also right to get up? I did not vote in my congregation to raise the price of kindergarten, and I did not support the raising of help at home, because it seems to me that citizens are already burdened with costs such as cleaning up waste water and municipal water and all these containers and all that I thought was wrong to vote for the even higher price of kindergarten and for raising aid at home. Why? What does it say? It's not that high! Because you should give it to the state, admit it and raise it on average. But it doesn't seem to be, so I'm saying you're good that you did it on the board. I hope that this thinking will be stronger and that, however, it will also be at tomorrow's vote. Why is it important that the municipalities have sufficient financial resources? We all know that birds are already chirping that we are not successful at using European funds. Who will benefit from the European funds? Who is the one who benefits most from European funds? Precisely local communities through various projects. If local communities do not have enough of their own input, they cannot carry out such projects and it is simply then stopped or disabled or worse use of European funds, cohesion funds, whatever someone may call it. It seems to me that it is very important that we understand that a well - developed congregation is also of tourist interest, that it is beautiful, that we have well - arranged roads, and that we have a beautiful landscape. But I don't think there's anything for free in this country. Not that either. If local communities and municipalities are not understood to be recognised, however, what was said to them by law, what was calculated by law, which is 658.80 euros for 2020 and 668.10 euros for 2021, then I simply do not know what else we can expect from the municipalities that have been imposed on them. They also pay for all those unemployed compulsory or additional insurance. And I could also list here what is involved in some municipal budget. It is nice to hear “our congregation is successful”. Everyone wants to live in a successful congregation, everyone wants to live in a successful congregation, which also has low costs. But if the congregation can't do that, of course, part of it flows over the various price increases to our citizens. It is right for the State to ensure that this is less and less, or that citizens do not live in such differences and thus differ in the congregations. That's why I'll back you up.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor in this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u272	Once again, everyone, welcome. The amendment to Article 50 allows the people of the guarantee for the housing guarantee scheme on which the law was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party on 6 November this year. Of course, that's why we're going to support him. Otherwise, this amendment provides for 200 million for the following year and 200 for 2021. We have foreseen a quota of 300 million in our law, but I believe that 200 will be sufficient, especially given that this scheme, if this law survives the first reading next week on Tuesday, will only be implemented somewhere in the second half of the year. But if you reject it in the coalition, then for the second year, you don't need any scheme, because what you're writing in the housing law right now is not going to live for at least a year. Not at all on the basis of a single indent, which is recorded within the competences of the Housing Fund. Without special law, you will not be able to implement this scheme. So I appeal to everyone, to some healthy rational logic, as it was said at the average, that it's about people, and it's about people. We don't share in opposition and coalition, but let's all do something good together and take the first step next week so that people can access this guarantee scheme as quickly as possible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome this amendment. We welcome the €200 million quota next year for guarantees to people for housing loans and the same in 2021. We are now talking about the amendment to the 50th, but since everyone else was also talking about the amendment to the 54th, where the average is, I would also like to continue at this point and say that the Sharchev coalition has tabled an amendment that reduces this average from 658.80 euros for 2021 to 589.11 euros for 2021 and lowers this average from 668,10 euros to 588,30 euros for 2021. Even for one euro less than next year. This is the content of this amendment. Today, it has been repeatedly said that the numbers are justified, more than justified. More than once, it has also been said that there is no problem of € 130 million here after content. Let us repeat this today, and this threat by the Minister yesterday that if this law is not adopted by this amendment, then he is no longer in the ministerial chair, so they were to be understood. Today they have turned into another threat, if you accept it, then the budget is gone and we have temporary funding – but you know what temporary funding means? None of this is going to happen, Your Honor. None of that. If this amendment is not adopted, then the average will be higher, the law will be adopted, the law will be published and the government has two ways: whether to make transfers in accordance with Article 28 of this Law, if not possible, and then amend the budget balance. So that if the law is adopted, even if this amendment of coalition groups is rejected, it will be valid and must be enforced. And no one will tell me that the problem is one percent of the budget, that the Minister is unable to redistribute one percent. No one's gonna tell me that. These are empty excuses, these are empty threats. I believe that most Members do not fall for it. A number of reasons and arguments have been stated today in order for the municipalities to need these funds. It was said how these funds were declining and how they fluctuated. It has also been said that the decline in these funds has caused significant development in local communities in recent years. He also suffered from the decline in investment funds at the same time. By the government of Alenka Bratušek and even Cerar's government, these funds have been about halved. From about 150 to 75 million. And they're going down. Here, too, the congregations are handicapped. That in local communities they need this money, I think that's enough arguments. My money is spent most usefully in the congregations. The higher we go, the less useful the money is spent. That's the way it is. Earlier it was said that mayors are closest to people, that everyone can knock on the mayor's sleeve, and for that reason they are significantly more cost-effective than someone sitting in an office very far away from people. I must say that I cannot imagine that the Members of the parliamentary groups of the List of Marjan Sarca, the Social Democrats, Desus, except for Mr Robert Polnar, the Party of Alenka Bratušek and the Party of the Modern Centre, will vote in favour of these amendments against the environment that have elected you. You will vote if you support this amendment against your own people. These people will ask you at the next election: “Have you represented us?” These people where you've been elected. I, I must say, cannot imagine how and how you think you will represent them in the future in this House. I doubt that this trust will continue to be established. I think that this amendment should be rejected – these threats by the minister are empty – and that the law on the implementation of the budget should be adopted as we have it on the table, in addition to allowing the guarantee to be given to natural persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I ask if there is any interest in the debate on this amendment. I can see that. That's why I'm opening the application. Please sign in. We've got five reported discussers. Mr Jani Ivanuša gets the first word, and Mrs Alenka Jeraj is prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ivanusha.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u274	You know where the priority is. Of course. Let me make a little joke. Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present! I certainly had to apply for a debate because I have some concerns. In my debate, I'm going to ask you a question. I think Mr. Bear is here. Minister Medved, I want to know how many new jobs the congregations have this year. Do you have this information about how many municipalities this year have employed, how many jobs there have been in all 212 municipalities in 2019. I'm afraid, even if there was a rise in these averages, that this money would go mostly to the employment of new people. That's my thought. Normally, if a good one leaves in the public sector, two bad ones have to come in to cover one good one. It's a case like this. Unfortunately, they don't replace him either. I would like to quote Prime Minister Charles, but this is more for your ministry, Mr Bertonzel, "there are many people in the ministries who would not give them the key to watering the flowers." This year you raise your wages and you also work. In the public sector, 3,000 668 people were employed this year. This is from the Committee on Finance. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, if you have responded to this statement by Mr Sharpe, if you have been working on what he has said, but you have received instructions. I'd like to know what you've done on the expenditure side. Has anything been reduced? Is there any cutbacks? How much did it take to reduce the number of employees in the ministries? That's a key question. The Prime Minister says half are incompetent. The Ministry of Finance is supposed to have 4,000 200 employees and in two days when this dilemma around averages occurred, these 140 million each year, so that 4 thousand 200 people do not find any answers, how do they scrape in this budget 140 million to cover this increase? I will quote today's press release: "The European Commission says that the Slovenian budget has a risk of non-compliance with the rules." If you can explain this to me a little bit more, because you say we have the best budget in Europe. Now there's something wrong with me. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u275	Thank you very much for the debate. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. But get ready, Mrs. Jerca Korca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. In the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, we have heard that the fiscal rule is the bar of development. I would suggest that you inform the European Commission, and they will tell you why a fiscal rule has to be adopted, why the Stability Pact has been prescribed and so on. It's because of people like the colleague who talked about it who'd over-indebted the country. We started this with the government of Borut Pahor. It was therefore necessary to adopt a fiscal rule. If it were not, we would be spending again abnormally, as was the case when the budget rebalancing increased spending by 20% and then we had to borrow loans that we will not get rid of soon or we have indebteded future generations. Why would they give more to the congregations in the SDS? Colleagues have already talked about how much has been spent on investment in recent years, how much investment is actually falling. We give virtually nothing or minimal, and the municipalities themselves have to provide money for kindergartens, schools. You know, for example, in 2008, 2009, 2010, we had several more births. These children are now in kindergartens, schools, and many congregations have had to build kindergartens in recent years without the support of the country without any contribution from the country. Of course, it is their job to provide child care. You received an increase in wages and added burden to the congregations. First, for its employees in the public sector, where wages have increased, and it was necessary to encourage kindergartens where salaries are raised for educators. I'm not saying that we don't deserve higher wages, but then we have to give the municipalities money. Some municipalities give money only for kindergartens, schools give money, then they have some 100,000 euros left to invest and all the other activities they have to do and for which they are in charge. Someone earlier said that the lady from the Cohesion Service said about European funds that we are not using European funds or we are not using them because the municipalities do not have ready-made projects. In fact, the state has not issued any smart calls in recent years. The municipalities have prepared a lot of projects, documentation, because they followed what was in the previous perspective. But look at the number of calls. In the SDS in the previous mandate and in this mandate, we have called many meetings on the issue of drawing on European funds, and something is not moving very much, and the lady in the European Affairs Service said at the last meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee that they are now at a tough pace because they have increased the pumping rate by 1% since spring. It's funny you say that. The municipalities have a whole bunch of other problems, they don't have basic issues, like I said, and you're wondering where they'd get the money. We have one billion outstanding tax debts. Just wrap it up a little, and there'll be too much money, not just enough. I have already mentioned the EU funds that lie with us. It was said earlier about the office material. See, office and general materials and services – we spent 31 million on this in 2014. For 2020, 83 million and 87 million are foreseen for the following year. That's one item. Second item: special materials and services. In 2014, there were 84 million for this, in 2020 213 and in the following year 2021 218 million. If they double, even triple the funds, it will be difficult for us to sell that so many things have happened and so many additional costs that we will have to cover. Then there are other operational expenditure – again we do not know what this is – in 2014 122 million, in 2020 171 million and in 2021 307 million. Please tell us what you've hidden in not talking again in a year or two about studies that cost tens of millions instead of doing something smart. So that we don't talk about schools for which the mayor is then, and today, Prime Minister Sarec has already spent a million, and there's nothing and nothing stands. If other mayors did, they wouldn't have schools or kindergartens. And the last flower. Mr Šarec said: “We have agreed that no one is interested in the collapse of the government.” Look, this is a joke. It should be in your interest to adopt a good budget, not whether the government will stay or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs Jerca Korče has the floor and prepares herself as the last in this round, Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u278	Good evening. Thank you, Madam President. The average is so far the highest, and this is the estimated average of 589.11 cents. I agree, my fellow Members, that your amendment, which was adopted by the Committee on Finance, is very good. It is also good that my amendment, which I have in my drawer, is for every student who is studying to spend 1,000 euros a month. It is also good that my amendment, which would allow for a bypass in Cerknica, is good that my amendment, with which 30 million people would go to Logatec to rebuild certain objects. But you know what that is? It's populism, and that means I'm a bad politician if I think like that. Because I am thinking partially because I am thinking either as my colleague Chernač said before, and this is also one of the glasses of the development of all parliaments so far, and especially those in which a large number of mayors sat, when they were looking through such a narrow splinter of every budget and every matter that was adopted, only through, and I will go so far, through my own ass. It means whether I will be elected in the next term or I will sit here, or I will be able to boast in my constituency in my electoral unit what I have done. And that's funny, if it wasn't sad, it's funny. It's just that if you're able to sit around like a politician and look at it as a whole, then you sometimes suppress your own partial interests and you're real. I am sorry that we also have in the coalition line at least one Member, who has some of his traumas from the past, when he was a mayor, today is above the whole country and above the entire budget. Unfortunately, it's very sad for me. I'm also interested in where you've been before when you were talking about pensions, and now we're talking about averages. All this stuff this government raises. But we listen from people who have been in Slovenian politics for a long time in such and different positions, to the obvious what should be. I wonder why it is not yet, why the congregation’s tasks are not adjusted, why we do not really talk or have no established provinces, if this is so urgent for all of us sitting here, why these things are not already easy. I'll be critical of the congregations. I think there's too many congregations. I think that we have come so far with this kind of gardening, which is still present in this Chamber, that we have these 211 municipalities, which are not sufficiently connected in some areas, which is why it is also worse to draw on European funds. We have as much as we have in the leading positions of the good and bad mayor. Let's face it, all the mayors aren't good, a lot of the mayor is, as colleague Marko said earlier, it's very much dependent on the one who runs the municipality, how he's going to allocate the budget money. Last but not least, we have mayors when they arrive at the door after 12 years, but now his school is going to collapse or his kindergarten is going to collapse, while for 12 years he had neither strategy nor planning, but he spent money on other matters, perhaps on those matters that allowed him to be elected in the next term. He didn't plan for the long term, he didn't put resources aside, he didn't think about where his school would be in 10 years, 12 years, allowing construction, excessive construction, accepting spatial plans, without having a vision of how to provide other public goods. Then, of course, the easiest thing to do after so many years is to fly into the country and say, ‘ Something is falling down in the congregation. ’ Thus we have such and different mayors, and it is difficult to speak in general, that the mayors are all good managers of their assets, which we allocate from the state budget. Once again, the average set by that government even after speaking to the congregations is record. There's never been such an average. And that's important information. However, the fact that we have a situation in which an amendment was adopted on the Committee, which is very welcome, is, of course, irresponsible, because this means an intervention in a budget which is currently coherent, which is coordinated between ministries. You say the Finance Minister is unable to find 1% within this record budget. He's capable of finding 10%, I don't doubt that at all. Tell him where to take the money and where to transfer it. It's so simple. To talk about having a housing problem unresolved, long-term care unresolved, we need to take care of security, we need to take care of education, we need to take care of adequate economic growth, for research and development, for universities, not to list all the areas in the budget. And these things need to be balanced, they'll never be enough for anything. We all know that if, like my colleague Lydia had talked about billions yesterday, it probably wouldn't have been enough, even 235 billion for culture would not have been enough for the appetites, because people are always looking for us. That's why we're framed, and we're also framed by a fiscal rule. Thank God we have it in our constitution. It's only right that we have it in our constitution. But it must be understood that in the List of Marjana Sharca we refer mainly to the formula in the way we are calculated. Fellow Jeraj, because of this formula, this 270 million, which has given you a constitutional judgement, has miraculously disappeared. Because of the formula, not because of the fiscal rule in the constitution. That's what we're talking about so you don't lose 270 million in 14 days. I'm hoping he'll take over his sanity. First of all, I hope that every Member will understand that he is a representative of the whole people, not of an individual social group, not of one individual district. We're here to see whether or not I'm younger, but now I'm more interested in housing issues, and I can see pensioners in this country. I can also see science if you want, even though I'm not a doctor, and I'm a high school graduate, but as a member of the National Assembly, you understand that. And, yes, this amendment is as good as any other amendment. But we all understand the point. And that is also understood by the opposition's colleagues. In fact, we like this dynamic that we are witnessing within a minority government, that there are also such interesting things that we are simply not bored. However, I believe that tomorrow's reason will prevail that this amendment, which sets a record average, will return to that reasonable level that will allow for a coordinated budget, and that this night, which will probably be shorter, will also bring little sense into the heads of those Members who understand their function only in the light of whether they will sit still in this chair in the next term and not in the light of the fact that we are looking at the country in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u280	I think that my colleague Jerzi Korča is not going to resent this debate, given that she has very modest work experience – she graduated 11 years ago, then she was president of the Club of Logic Students, president of the Youth Council Logatec, municipal councilwoman Logatec. In 2018 she became Vice-President of the Marjan Sarca Party and the first concrete work experience is, as we see, a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. But there is something right in this debate, indeed, mayors are different: good and bad masters. One of the very bad ones was the mayor of Kamnik, and now he is the Prime Minister of the Government. Hundreds of thousands of euros, he even used millions for a school where weed is growing today. I wouldn't trust a higher average. But we can't hit everyone else over the head because of such deviations. For most of them are good masters, significantly better masters than the state or the government. Members must see to it that they represent the interests of all people. I do not know what our own partial interests are when we advocate the allocation of funds for the normal functioning of the municipalities that provide these funds for development in these municipalities where we all live. It's for normal kindergartens, for normal schools, for normal road infrastructure, for normal services that people need in these environments. What kind of populism, excuse me, is that for you? At a time when there was a major crisis and there was another government, although there was a major crisis, at all times, it introduced significantly cheaper tickets for students and students, which was a follow-up to the current single ticket. Was it populism, you mean, back then? No, it was that something was made possible that should have been long ago, which should have been long ago. If that government were to continue at that time, such populist moves as you call them would continue, and we would now have public passenger traffic, not this divisive exercise as we have today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Are we still on the amendment to Article 50 and only that? Because I listened to my colleague before, and we had all sorts of things. Look, dear colleague Jerca, New Slovenia doesn't tell anyone anything. We are really trying with our parliamentary dialogue, not to offend anyone. Sometimes we don't get lucky, I apologize for back and forth. But you need to distinguish between what's obvious and what's suggested. We're just suggesting because we don't have any other tools. Let's face it. We are not offended if 99% of our proposals are not accepted. You must also separate, if I may, the amendments that are on the committee, at the working body of the National Assembly, accept the amendments and become an integral part of the amended bill, and are the amendments in the drawer. These are huge. I don't see them, and no one sees them, except the one who talks about them. I wouldn't dare talk just so that the mayors are kind of, I don't know, corrupt, uneconomic and so on. I just want to remind you when you say we have too many congregations. We had a referendum 25 years ago. 25 years old is the Slovenian local government and for the holiday today we want to tear it to shreds. And one more thing, we don't have a fiscal rule in our constitution, colleague Jerco. We don't have it in the constitution because the constitution is not an enforceable act. But we do have a fiscal rule in the Fiscal Rules Act. So we'll get along better. Article 50, I support and propose, because we, too, in the third reading, can be qualified candidates to make it more precise in accordance with what is said in the explanatory memorandum. The explanation is not published in the Official Journal when the law is adopted. And you know, we both know, a colleague of Jerco's, or proponents, pardon, proponents, coalition five, if we have three lawyers, we have six different legal opinions. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify precisely why now for natural persons. That's my opinion if we really want to know exactly what we have here. The explanation, as stated, will not be recorded in the Official Journal, and it would be good to mention a law that would allow for the determination of how natural persons can obtain such guarantees. If I read the explanation, I can explain to myself that I have the same income as nothing and I can benefit from the state guarantee. It's just my suggestion, not an obvious one. Otherwise, I support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I ask if there is still interest in the debate on this amendment by 50. A member. If it is not, we conclude the debate and move on to the debate on Article 54 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? Since I see it's an interest, I'm going to open up an application for debate. We have three panellists reported. The first one gets the word, Mr Jan Mahnic, to prepare Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u284	Thank you, Vice President. Dear citizens of the municipality of Jury, LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB, Desus and SNS will take away €345,000. Dear citizens of the municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane, customers of LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB, Desus and SNS will take away EUR 524 000. Dear citizens of the municipality of Železniki, customers of LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB, Desus and SNS will take away half a million euros. Dear citizens of the Komen Congregation, Marko Bandelli will take away 243,000 euros from you in his vote. Dear citizens of the Bohinj Congregation, Franz Kramar will take away €352 000 in his vote. Dear citizens of the Logatec Congregation, Jerca Korče will take away 1 million euros from you in her vote. Dear citizens of the Postojna municipality, Member Robert Pavšič will take away 1.1 million euros from you in his vote. Dear citizens of the Kočevje municipality, Mr Baković will take away 1.2 million euros from you in his vote. At this time in this vote, when, say, Marko Bandelli takes over the Communion 243 000 euros, he also votes for €40 million in the fight against climate change. And in this item it is written or you explain to yourself that it is necessary to reduce livestock farming, so the cattle are reduced to a minimum level. Marko Bandelli, if you look at Instagram, practically every day announces how to cut one t-bone steak, or fisheye steak. It is said that Marko Bandelli fights livestock farming while cutting one t-bone or fisheye every day. I like to cut him too, Mr Bandelli, I believe he's great, but at least I won't vote against what I like to eat. So, look, colleagues and colleagues, I think it's inappropriate for some of you here to speak directly against mayors, who, unlike Members, who can be said to have been elected somehow indirectly, are, through the parties that propose us, elected by the people directly and directly to those who have been elected. Every mayor, I believe he's trying to deal with the budget he gets. That, then, some of you are attacking here from the coalition ranks of Mr Polnar, who was a member of the council, but I am also interested in the opinion of Mr Lepa, who was the mayor, whom I believe will find it difficult to come before their citizens and citizens who once trusted them with the leadership of the municipalities, but now they will say that we will overrun everything they have worked for as mayors and mayors by our vote. From what we've heard, I believe they won't. But that some mayors and parishioners here go directly towards the averages that are proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party through the amendment, which does not give me no idea how much, but at least some part of the refund, is extremely inappropriate. More than once, as we have said yesterday and today, this is not a waste of money, so that the municipalities, with this money that we have tabled, will receive more, invest either in infrastructure or in programmes. I also know, for example, the Iron Community, which could build a home for the elderly, at the expense of getting more money. The nursing home will not build with state money, but a home will be built because a concession will be granted. In our country, there has been no home for older citizens with state money for more than ten years, but this is always, if we can say, a public-private partnership. Some of you fight against concessions very much, but if you do not have a system of concessions like this in the field of health, some mistakenly think that it is private health, but in the case of concessions it is not private health, it is public health, even in the case of building a home for older citizens it is not a private matter, but it is a public matter where public programmes are implemented. This amendment brings back to the congregations what is throughout the years, what we have explained when we tabled the amendment, even on the committee as well as on colleagues before. We have made it clear that every euro we give to the congregations is a well-buried euro. Decentralisation of our country is important. Earlier, a colleague of Jerca's said that you were talking about the provinces, but you were in the government, and you didn't introduce them. When the Slovenian Democratic Party first joined the government in the sense that it ran the government, the whole matter went so far as to hold a referendum on the provinces. And this referendum worked. It was a low participation, I think it was the only northern Primorska that rejected its province. But it got so far that the whole legislation was ready. But the point was that a two-thirds majority was needed. Some of this has been accepted. At that time, the development partnership, coordinated with the Social Democrats, but since this was one year before the elections, was calculated in the SD that it was not worth setting up the provinces, that they should not be paid for a positive project to be carried out or helped to carry out because it would help the ruling coalition. And that's when the provinces fell. When you talk through the State Council today, and all of you talk about what provinces we'd like to re-establish, how to regulate legislation – only the drawer needs to be opened and taken out, everything is ready. But, of course, it's too much for you to take something that's already ready and that's already been drinking water. We have different views on this. Even when we are talking about this amendment, we have heard the mayors in Parliament yes-no. But I ask any mayor whether on the left or on the right or on the former opposition or coalition side, everyone tells me "when we were mayors in Parliament, we held together, there was more connection between the parties and the legislation that was adopted was in favour of local self-government". Which is in the interest of local self-government – and at least the Minister of Public Administration, who is the former director of the municipal administration, if I am not mistaken, should know and at least defend what is good for the local environment, should know. Do not speak against the mayors, because here we defend all the mayors, regardless of which side they are elected, because the mayors are elected directly. There's a number surrounding their name and surname. And unlike customers, we know that in the vast majority of cases of mayors it is mainly a name and surname, more than the party to which they are elected. They have so much responsibility. For this reason, this Parliament must also take account of some autonomy of local self-government. There are quite a few of us here municipal councillors, some of whom are mayors. My friend Bandelli was the mayor. Don't watch his votes, go see his Twitter. I think Marko Bandelli is the one on Twitter. Because he's critical because he says it like he thinks he does. Even though he blocked me on Twitter yesterday. But there Marko is critical of the government, because still, I think, he talks like a mayor, talks like a citizen, and talks like someone who knows what needs to be done. The votes are then second. But those who have ever been or are involved in local self-government know that even if we give these 136 million euros, that it will not be a waste of money, and that the minister, given that he says he is an expert or that the financier currently in the role of politics, will be able to find that money.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u285	Dear Members, we still have an incredible time ahead of us, so just calmly, please. First you have a replica of Mr Jani Ivanus, then Mr Marko Bandelli and then we have time to work circles and circles. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I have to turn to Mr. Mahnich. In all of his presentations he had before, he finally mentioned to the SNS client that she was going to take something away from someone. I'm courting. That's how I figured it out. Please, Mr Mahnic, on Friday on the Committee on Finance Jani Ivanuša as a member of the Committee voted in favour of your proposal, for the municipalities. And you're reading to me here today — what? That we'd take something from someone. It's such a duplicity and deception and you're telling the truth. Please, Mr President, warn him to speak the truth in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u287	Dear Member, you have warned yourself clearly and loudly enough so that no one has to repeat. Yeah, just please don't use it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u288	I will not use it, but I will make it clear: yes, Mr Ivanush voted in favour of this proposal. But I watch the reports every night, so I saw the reports yesterday when the SNS President said that they would not support this amendment in plenary. If Jani Ivanusha supports him, I will also publicly apologize to him on the social network and commend him for supporting him.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u289	This has not been procedural and has been an abuse, Mr Member. I wish this wouldn't happen again today. Mr. Marko Bandelli, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u290	Thank you, President. There's only one explanation for him quoting me. Nothing's been taken if it hasn't been given yet. Saying we'll take it, I'll take it, I don't know who'll take it. If it hasn't been given yet, nothing has been taken. It's just a proposal, you've taken some decision that's like one proposal. The National Assembly will decide whether this goes ahead or not. If I know that. Therefore, do not say that we have taken away not how many thousands of euros from anyone if they have not even been given. It's a delusion. I just wanted to tell you exactly what this is all about. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u291	Will you have a replica? This time, I don't think it's going to be abused.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u292	Mr President, it is procedural for me to understand correctly, given the rules of procedure, that there is a normal meeting of the National Assembly or as far as the procedure is concerned. To allow the meeting of the National Assembly to proceed normally, I suggest you explain to your colleague Bandelli that we have laws, that we have resolutions and that we also have a budget. What is the essential difference? We've got it all on the boards. If the committee approves the amendment to the law or to the resolution, it means that this is accepted. If anyone wants to change that, he shall, at the plenary session of the National Assembly, table an amendment to the Committee's discretion. However, if the budget is when some amendments have been adopted, these amendments must be re tabled and voted in plenary. Currently, Mr Bandelli, we are not talking about the budget, but we are talking about the law. Since the law on the committee has been discussed and the adoption of an amendment of €136 million has been adopted, we now have a law at the plenary session, when there are more €136 million for the average of municipalities. And that's true. And now you've tabled an amendment, and that's what you're taking. Tomorrow we will vote on the amendment – not to be able to do so, but to take it. That this €136 million should be, it has already been adopted because the committee has adopted it. If you had not tabled the amendment, you would have voted in full on Zipper. So, Mr Bandelli, you've been a minister, now you're an MP, you're no longer a minister, let me teach you. President, I suggest you give him the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or something like that because he doesn't know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u293	Look, I have a strong desire to give you the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to read Article 69 of this Rules of Procedure, because you will be able to read exactly what the Procedural Proposal is. And that wasn't a procedural proposal. The second time you abused a few minutes of procedural motions. [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not. If it is, it's my call, and it's not. [[advertising from the hall]] Now we go, honourable Members and honourable Members, without warning, but courageously forward to the eleventh hour so that we can continue the meeting at nine o'clock in the morning. You have the word, Mr. Boris Doblekar, and prepare yourself for the mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's just my turn. The fact is that our amendment, our proposal and I think it is also right that it has been confirmed, and I believe that you agree with it completely. For ye are honourable Members and Members, and we are citizens and citizens. We can't forget that. I have said this a number of times, and I also have this in my head all the time in my work as a Member. Of course, we are all elected throughout the country, we are well placed in all areas, and we also look at our becirk or the area where it is elected. I'm not going to get too involved in Isolo or Murko Sobota if I'm coming from Zasavje. That's a fact. I also know local things, which I also expose, but they are also a sample example for all cases across the country. Clear as day. When we suggested it, of course, we didn't come to suggest it. We proposed this because many of us are municipal councilors here, we were mayors, mayors, directors of municipal administrations, like the current minister and so on. All those of us who were or were part of these local communities, the municipalities, we know damn well what the problem is in the municipalities, because there is no money for development, there is no money for investment. Money is spent on the legal performance of the tasks assigned by the State to the congregation. The State has also allowed wages to rise, and all of this then affects the budget of the municipalities, which must cover all of this. It is not true that the mayors decide everything in the congregation. That's what the councils are for. There are clients and lists in the municipal councils who then decide what the mayor proposes. The mayor's not a sheriff, like he is in Ljubljana. This is a unique case. This is different in Slovenia. We've heard of a case of bad practice by the mayor who was a bad mayor. But mostly the mayors are good, and everyone is fighting for the local community, working for the good of people, citizens and citizens. And absolutely, as Mrs Jerca said, they are also doing well to be re-elected. We have to do good, too, if we ever want to be in here again. But if we don't do good for people and then we don't have anything to look for here, we don't have anything to do here. We can close now and go home. Simple as that. That's why it's right to keep these things in mind. 1% of the budget, ladies and gentlemen – do you know how small this is? So that we don't find those poor 136, 140 million, with all that's in there. Not that it isn't, not that God has mercy on them. We have proposed amendments, and they will probably be rejected after the current tape. And if this money is not found for the development of municipalities, for the better life of citizens and citizens, which is essential, because we all live in some local environment, because we do not live in the country. I don't live here in Parliament. And you probably don't either. Everyone will now go home, to his place, to his congregation, to the local community, and live there. That's where you see the quality of life. There is a need to make sure that the infrastructure developed is that the conditions for life are as good as possible. And that's essential. So that this money is not found, when we have heard, how much is it just for material costs and for all kinds of things that are completely undefined?Oh, my God! God knows what's behind them. But now I'm not going to keep counting, because I'm going to be running out of time. Once again, there are representatives of SD, Desus, LMŠ and SMC in the municipal councils who decide where the money will go from the municipal budget if anything comes in. All these saints, at least I have this experience, are very critical of the state to give municipalities little money. He doesn't give them enough. These are your colleagues and colleagues who are against it, and you go in front of them. We must all face them so that, together with the mayors in the municipal world, they can confirm some investment, the progress of the congregation, the better life of the people. That's essential. This is the essence of all of this, as we are now talking about in raising the average from 589 to 658 for 2020 and 668 euros for 2021. The mayor and the mayors are hoping for these funds, but don't tell me it's populism. If anyone needs this money from this state budget, or from a country that collects from working people, the economy, farmers and all of us who pay taxes, money, if this money is more eloquent or more important, when we are filled with different priorities, if he is anywhere, then this money will be perfectly invested in municipal budgets. It's like it's gold. Let's understand that, those who understand it. But those who do not, tomorrow you will support this amendment of yours, which will lift our amendment, which proposes this amendment, written on the skin of the congregations, citizens and citizens. How, then, will you look your fellow Christians in the eye when you reject such a proposal? I don't want to be in your shoes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u295	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. In this circle, you have like the last word of a magician. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u296	Thank you very much, President. Minister, Secretary of State, another minister, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that we are now talking about the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Sarca, the Group of the Social Democrats, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek. This amendment proposes to reduce the average for municipalities in 2020 from 658.80 to 589.11 euros. This is what you propose to Members and Members of all these parties that I have listed. This is not a government proposal. You write in your explanation that in accordance with Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget must be in line with the adopted State budget and that the adoption of the proposed amendment is therefore an essential condition for the implementation of the country's budget for 2020 and 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, you have listed here some formal legal reason which is at odds with itself and contrary to democracy and the position of the National Assembly. In other words, this means that you as Members cannot or as Members we cannot accept any amendments to a law without being contrary to the budget of the National Assembly. This actually means that we don't have that right at all, because this rules of procedure prevent us from doing so. This explanation, which relates only to legal formalism, is underestimating, underestimating to all mayors and mayors. One content statement says that this is simply a formal reason why you are proposing a reduction in the average. I read your text, not the text of the government, it's the text of this coalition. It seems to me, look, I won't, underestimating. That's enough. I'm not gonna use a stricter term for that. But on the other hand, you all say, you too, that the greatest role of the congregations in development. By proposing a reduction in the average, you are reducing development. You also say that the congregations are for citizens and citizens to exercise their best interests in them. The policy of the congregation, the development, what the municipality, the local community allows them, has the most impact on the quality of life of citizens and citizens. But you, the coalition, with this amendment, are reducing the quality of life of citizens and citizens. Look, I don't know if you work in the interests of citizens and citizens or not with this amendment. Answer that for yourself. These are the facts. You wrote this yourself, and you have to bear the consequences. I thought, colleague Bandelli, you had a very interesting discussion and I listened to it with great interest. I'm going to generalize this matter a little bit. You said that you had already worked together on how it was negotiated within the various congregations, we have three associations, with the Government in this regard. For ten years we have a law on the implementation of budgets every year, and for ten years the average is always set. And ten years or at least the last few years the government has come uncoordinated with regard to the average in the National Assembly. You know, the sun didn't start to rise when you first came to Parliament. Everything's happened before. The government and these people, some of whom are here all the time, have not made this effort in these years, not in the five, not even the previous government, to harmonize with the representatives of the congregations. It's not a new thing. It's been going on for years. From this point of view, this proposal that, if I quote, "actually make some new basics, real needs" and so on, see, this can all be done. This is foreshadowed by the Ministry of Finance, with the Ministry of Local Self-Government. It's been done for at least five to ten years, and that's all I know, and I guess it's even further. And it didn't match and nothing was done. Don't say it's new now. And you simply take money from the municipalities because of some formalism. You're proposing this amendment, not the government. I think you have until tomorrow night or tomorrow afternoon to think about it and to visualize even a few years ago what was done, what was promised. None of this has been done by this government or the former government or any government. It has not done what would be in favour of citizens and citizens, to improve the quality of life of citizens and citizens, for the development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u297	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now you will witness an interesting fact. The government will speak with three votes, but not at the same time. Minister Bertonzel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would answer Mr Ivanus' question. Otherwise, it does not refer directly to Zippers, but because it was explicitly set up, I will answer anyway because it was published today. First of all, you didn't exactly specify my particulars. I did not declare that we have the best euro budget. That is not what I am, but that we have one of the best or the best in two segments, namely budget surpluses, in nominal work, and in the work of reducing public debt. And here we have him among the best. As regards this compliance with the reduction of public debt, there is no doubt under this criterion. We go nicely in the euro or in our scenario in 2021 to reach the Maastricht criterion 60% of the public debt, where in relation to gross domestic product, we reduce it 4% to 4.5% per annum and we are in this part – now I don't know what we are taking – either the best euro country in this or the other best euro country in this part. Of course, that's true, and that's taken into account. This is measured in relative proportion, but this is being measured in all 19 euro states. This is where the suitor's the same. Second, about the surplus. In these methodologies there is also a different approach, somewhere between 0.5 and 0.8 this is measured. In this part, in individual countries, as with us, some extra numbers may change in surpluses. I think we're between 5th and 7th among 19 countries. So according to these two criteria, it's going to kind of, it's going to hold. Perhaps there is something else that has also been published today, especially as defined by the European Commission, that in the case of Slovenia there is no "special concerns and it is possible that it will be transferred to the group of major compliance" in the spring. As you know, the European Commission of the European States has three groups: consistent with these rules, largely consistent or inconsistent, does not mean that it is incompatible, but rather with the risks of non-compliance. We're just here in a group of eight countries. This is, of course, a key question to be asked where these differences in estimates have been, in fact, taking place all year round. Let me make two assessments. The European Commission's assessment for Slovenia for 2020 is 2.7% economic growth; Slovenia's Umarje is 3%. I'm obliged to take 3% growth. The Ministry of Finance and the Government, when preparing the calculation, shall take over Umar's official forecast. These estimates are very large and there are some ranges in zero percentage points. Our final forecast in the preparation of the budget was Umarje's autumn forecast, which is 3%. It was 3.1%, so we reacted in that part, so it's 3%. The second is what the European Commission is referring to, and what we know, and what part we have, in fact, of all the finance ministers, since we have been in this area and since we have measured it by this fiscal rule, we have been talking about not saying a fight with the European Commission, but the methodology for calculating the production gap. There are very different grades here and this is a very complex matter. I'm sorry. I'm just gonna make it easy for you to get along. In 2015 it was, say, a score of 0.5, three years later, this is the difference that I have already talked about in this House, not once, is this ex-ante and ex-post evaluation, because in fact you can assess ex-post. This has also been demonstrated in our rebalancing 2019 within 14 days in the domestic assessment of the fiscal rule. Only one report of Sursa came, and from that kind of non-compliance we came in line with the domestic fiscal rule. So much for those grades. There are differences in individual years between 1 and 3%. These are huge differences. But they've always been to the detriment of Slovenia. Always. Consistency. You can look at this statistically, after each year they were very big. And if you were to summarize these estimates, if you were to make me say, the budget at 2.7 percent growth would be different. If we had these estimates of the output of the gap, the production gaps such as those of the European Commission would be different again. We also take some average, including Umar some calculation, Banka Slovenije can calculate, EIPF, which evaluates us, all calculate the production gap. I counted it, too. Look, none of them are the same, none of them are the same. This indicates the volatility of these assessments. The key difference is in this methodology. But there's something I'd like to say in particular in this work. When I talk about this production gap methodology, it's the difference between the actual and potential gross domestic product of calculation, the actual and maximum potential, so that we can understand each other. And also on the assessment of the level of the conjunctural cycle we are in. This part was also a different assessment by the European Commission. And look, it's essentially going to add up, if I say so, so that's what this is all about. But the key assessment was that there's no particular concern here. Slovenia is not in any category of problem countries. Far from it. We have 0.5 to 0.8 depending on these methodologies, surplus, which is far from the 3% deficit allowed. In this category there is also a country – when you sort it, you fall under these criteria, and in this there is a country that has almost under 2.9% deficits. But in fact, we're also inside who have 0.8% surplus. These are the classifications. And, crucially, the third criterion, so that I will explain that my statement of a good budget comparable to European countries cannot be taken out of the context, once again, was that we have a very good, solid budget surplus, that we are on a very good track to achieve in two years the Maastricht criterion, which is becoming a key pillar of assessment, the evaluation of European budgets with the upper limit of these spending, which is different from ours. Domestic fiscal rules and Europeans differ. We have that mathematical formula slightly simplified, but Europeans have different criteria, debt have both, there is no doubt, and what are the growth permitted consumption in this work. But where I agree, where there is a flaw that we hunt, there is a structural deficit. We all know that. This is what awaits us, and we are all in this medium-term objective, with the MTO also saying, we catch it, let's hope, in these budgets over this period of three years. Then these three key criteria will be given: surplus, structural coherence and public debt – public debt below 60, structural coherence of the MTO should be zero and surplus whatever will be achieved. But in this sense, it is also important for us at home when we say that we are in line with the domestic fiscal rule. This has undoubtedly been the fiscal Council's assessment that both the 2020 budget and the 2021 budget are in line with the domestic fiscal rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u299	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. If I understand correctly, Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u300	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to what is wrong with this budget. Under perhaps a little unfortunately named account Office and general material and services, where Members thought he was hiding I don't know how much money I'd like to tell you now what's in here. These are office materials and services, cleaning materials and services, building and space security services, publishing and printing services, newspapers, magazines, books, translation services, advertising services, computer services, accounting services, representation expenses, etc. In fact, more resources are actually planned for 2020 than, say, spent last year or in the rebalancing this year, but these are mostly EU funds. I've already explained that. Then you also said that 4 thousand for 2021, that there is also this special material and services. I would like to tell you that there is mainly military material and services, it is said that as special material and services we have material and equipment for the military, then we have material for penal-improvement homes, laboratory materials, rail transport services, etc. In fact, if we spend 30 million more on the military in the coming years, it makes sense that this account actually knows that. Here I'd say we haven't found an extra 140 million euros. Then, with regard to the numbers concerning the municipalities, I would like to point out only a few things, namely averages, the legal tasks represent about half or a good half of the municipal budgets. Every time we talk about averages, it never seems to me that this is a good half of municipal budgets. In addition, municipalities have other tax revenues; compensation for the use of building land is, say, one such large income, other non-tax revenue, so that they have essentially good two billion 200, the average is half of it. And just to give a sense of it, after last year's final bill, the municipalities spent a billion Euros, while they spent 900 million on development tasks. This proportion is significantly different than in the state budget. In municipalities, 30% to 40% of the money actually intended for municipalities is very different and it is impossible to find a formula to address all their specifics. Mr. Polnar mentioned how it is essentially divided or how the average is calculated. Here I would like to say that Article 12 of the Community Financing Act sets out three conditions: one is the cost, the average cost of these four years, the other is the fiscal framework established by the National Assembly, and the third is 54% of the income from two years ago. In fact, the proposal prepared by the Government took such a methodology into account, the calculation of the average costs of four years, taking into account the fiscal framework and taking into account 54% of the income. This proposal, which is now on the table to say so, does not take into account at least two of these – this is essentially a fiscal framework, if the municipalities received so much more, then the fiscal framework you adopted would be exceeded, and 54% of the income would not be sufficient to pay this average, which you have proposed in these supplements. If there is not enough income to cover this, then there is a financial settlement. In the last four out of five years, although the costs were higher than the actual average thereafter, financial compensation had to be provided in addition to the income. You also mentioned investments and how they were essentially low in 2016, 2017, 2018. This is, of course, if you compare them with 2014 and 2015, when the investment cycle peaked both for the country and for the municipalities. At that time, they were the last two years of EU spending. If we compare this with 2016, 2017, which follows this investment cycle summit, then it is logical that investment transfers from the country to the municipality and the consumption of municipalities themselves are lower. However, the municipal investment in 2018, which was the electoral year, has increased significantly. The municipal budgets, after recording surpluses cumulatively before the state budget in 2016 and 2017, were again in red numbers in 2018 due to this investment strong sun. Otherwise, this year's implementation of the municipal budgets, which we are monitoring, shows at least the figures show that their finances are in good shape. There was also a question about employment in the congregations. Just how many people were employed in the municipalities, we have no data this year, but according to ISPAP data, this is after paid hours, from September to May this year 14 additional people were employed in the municipalities, in all municipalities. More information that I think is interesting about the number of employees in public administration. And let me still read those numbers. In municipalities from 2014 to 2018, this is now the data from the final accounts submitted by the municipalities to Apes, the number in the municipalities increased from 5,000 13 to 5 000 281, that is to say 270 people, by 5%. In the case of government budget users, the number has changed from 30 000 512 to 30 000 388 at this time, it is said to be somewhere. While this increase is being discussed, there is an increase in public institutions. In public institutions, the number of employees increased by 10 000 during this period, for example from 2014 to 2018. In public education institutions, 4 000 employees, due to the larger generations of children. In health care from 34,000 to 38,000, it's called addressing the problem of the ageing population. In social services from 11,000 900 to 12 thousand 800. So these 10,000 people, who are more employed, are not employed in a local public administration, but are employed where people need them the most. We also have data on the number of additional jobs this year. This is from the Information System of the Ministry of Public Administration. These are hours paid, which is not exactly comparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u301	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. And Mr. Secretary. Mr. Rudy Bear, would you like a word? You have it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u302	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members, honourable Members! Allow me to explain, however, that while no one is satisfied with the average level, that despite this fact the dialogue between the Government and the local communities is practically throughout Slovenia all year round. Also this baring for the height of the average, which has been going on for many years, as you mentioned, Member, we will also end this bartering. Although it is not entirely true that this has never been coordinated between the Government and the municipal associations. The 2019 average, this year, was in line with all three associations and we also signed an agreement. Unfortunately, we have not been able to sign this agreement for 2020 despite intensive dialogue with all three associations, and not only with the presidents of these associations, including with many mayors in Slovenia. You know, when we didn't come to this agreement, we didn't split up, we didn't split up in anger, but we made a strong commitment that this dialogue we're taking will continue. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I speak mainly with them as a department minister, also responsible for local self-government. Believe me, as long as I was Director of the Municipal Administration, I was Director of the Municipal Administration until a year and a half ago, I know the problems of the municipalities and we solved them. I come from a very successful municipality with 17,000 inhabitants. At the time of the worst crisis, we have absorbed EUR 25 million of European funds, and 32 million have been worth these projects. These numbers are verifiable. That is why the mayors and I have dealt with those two key issues, which you have been drawing attention to all the time in the debates. One is the financial burden placed on the congregations by years and years to turn this wagon in a different direction. And we have now begun this process. And second, which is also crucial for the average and then appropriate use, this famous formula is how to calculate this appropriate consumption. These two are the two key tasks ahead of us. And we made a strong commitment, and these two nuts are going to break. But it's not easy. Three municipal associations and 212 municipalities, 212 different interests. Sometimes we are very close to an agreement, and things are changing quite quickly. The Law on the Financial Dismantling of the Communities is ready and has gone into government procedure. As has already been said several times, this is only the beginning of the takeover by the State of certain obligations, where the municipalities were in fact only accounting services. They are not and do not have any direct impact on these costs that they are paying, in fact they are only accounting services. I hope that when the marriage comes shortly to the National Assembly, it will be supported. This process of financial decommissioning of the congregations will continue. We have also begun to discuss how to change this formula. This is, believe me, much harder and harder to shake if we want to do it in agreement with the congregations. And we want to write laws in cooperation with those to whom they are intended. When we made some experiments on how we might change the calculation of appropriate consumption, we once encountered great resistance from the larger congregations, once to the great resistance of small or medium - size congregations. The average is like a binder, as long as you lean on one side or the other the level is virtually unchanged, the level changes only when you pour the liquid into this binder. As we speak of an amount that we will move within, once to larger congregations, once to smaller congregations, we will find this arrangement very difficult by then. However, it is the will of all three congregational associations. Sometimes one of the mayors likes to perform for the public and may be even more conflicted, but when this dialogue is conducted, believe me, they can be very constructive mayors. I am also convinced that, after many years, even after the years when we had a minister for local self-government, there will be little change in this area, but now in this ongoing dialogue, we will change these matters for the better. I just wanted to say so much that things aren't so black and white or so very black, no matter what I mentioned at the outset, that no one is satisfied with this average. I, too, have said publicly that I am not satisfied with this average. Other ministers with a number of items in this budget are also not satisfied. But my job is to carry out what has been entrusted to me and what we have set ourselves, so that we go in the direction of the financial burden of the congregations, and that together we will find a formula that will stop this barrage for the average once and for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're going into something we're used to today. So let's go to the new filling list. I didn't see that they were replicas, and I apologize. Is it possible we have three replicas now? [[advertising from the hall]] Who's got all the replicas? Mr. Ambassador, please, you have a replica. [[advertising from the hall]] Does anyone have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u304	President, thank you for giving me your word. I would ask that our masters prepare these speakers – because what the minister said at the beginning, and then his right hand, I could not hear, but I heard Rudija a little better – that they put speakers a little more out loud. I also noticed that they were talking in such a way that the paper was above the speaker and it didn't sound at all. Maybe the experts here didn't even hear what the minister was trying to say. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u305	This is a proposal that is justified. I don't think we can handle technical matters right now, but it's part of the record and we start solving tomorrow. Mag. Spreadel, you have a replica. And I understand that? [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u306	Yes, I have a replica for Minister Bear. I am very pleased that the Minister has said how this coordination is going and so on. Among other things, he said that he was not satisfied with this average or that he publicly stated that he was not satisfied with this amount of average. Here's my first question. Minister Medved, you are responsible for local self-government, you are responsible for the municipalities in substance for the formulas and so on, but you are not satisfied with another minister, as I understand. You're not happy with that number. Then who's giving you this number? Who gives your ministry this number that you're not satisfied with? That's the first question. Second question. Can you, Minister, explain, say you will make the formula, reduce the costs to the municipalities and so on. Minister, members of the coalition are making these amendments. They're worse off defending him. They're not defending much of this amendment. But you're actually gonna do it for them now. But this is for 2020 and 2021. In 2022 there were supposed to be regular elections. How long will you be doing this? Until when? We're going to accept this for two years, and then it's election year. Can you define all of these efforts that you are making, or can you set a time limit for when you will do so? Or will it then give you another ministry, I think it's the Ministry of Finance, if it isn't, fix me, and name another ministry, a green light, so that you can lower the costs to the municipalities and increase the average with which you are not satisfied. I'd like to ask for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u307	Mr. Jani Ivanuša has the replica. There you go. We've got plenty of time. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u308	Thank you, Chairman. I listened very well to what the Minister of Finance said. I have very well understood the other part about what the European Commission is thinking. That's a great explanation. The only thing that bothers me is that I haven't heard of a single statement that I've quoted about these ministries, how many of them there are for flowers to water. I'm wondering if you've identified someone who doesn't really work there or if you've noticed any redundancies in the ministries. And about the downsizing, the downsizing. You avoid me here when I ask you that. State expenditure, the real public sector, does not go up, does not go down. If we were to lower ourselves, the results of the budget would then be significantly better. On this expenditure side, it's called a reduction in expenditure, and you haven't told me anything here. I'd like to ask for an additional explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u309	Thank you for your replica. Before the Minister receives the floor, I would suggest that Mr Cernač still has the replica, and then there will be some government response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister Rudi Medved spoke among other things that he was not satisfied with this average. At least that's how I understood him. But what average are you not satisfied with, Minister? We have before us a law where the average for 2020 is 658.80 euros. And we have an amendment of coalition parliamentary groups that reduces this average to €589. So you're probably not happy with the amendments of your coalition parliamentary groups, if I understand correctly what the averages are.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u311	Does any of the government's representatives want to respond now? Mr. Rudy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u312	Thank you very much. It is in the nature of every minister that he is not satisfied with the budget. Ask any minister if he is satisfied with the budget. No one will ever say that he is pleased with him and that he will always have comments. It is perfectly normal for us to have this dialogue with the municipalities all the time, and we know what financial problems they have, that I, and also publicly, have repeatedly expressed this that I am not satisfied with this average. But this does not change the fact that the budget needs to be fully viewed and that the budget is ultimately art possible. With regard to the process you are mentioning, for 30 years no one has done much with the municipalities, and now in a few months they should turn everything around for the better, especially as far as funding is concerned, long years down. The negotiations that took place over the years were such that the average was calculated and then governments offered a significantly lower amount and then governments and municipalities negotiated that they would reach a legal average, and in most cases they did not come, but that average remained lower. This year, for 2020, this average, as we speak of it, is, of course, legal because it is calculated in accordance with the law and is in line with the Law on Community Financing. That's for sure. If it is too low or any other, it shall be calculated in accordance with the law. Next year, an honourable Member, as I said, is going into the procedure of reducing the costs of municipalities. However, for this different calculation of the average and appropriate spending, we have some time available because this year has not worked out, and next year we will achieve this together with the congregations. I have no doubt that we would not get for this green light from the finance minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u313	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your words as well. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? You still have a good minute at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I'll be quick, because I'd just like to answer the honourable Member. What you mentioned, I appoint internal reserves, this is what my fellow ministers and ministers listened to from me when we discussed these budgets and other activities, in three parts. These are the financial plans each ministry or office has. The second thing I've said is that every user has to be on their own, and this is true for everyone, to find internal reserves, and what you've been saying isn't necessarily that only in humans, it's not necessarily that only in human capital. In fact, the Ministry of Finance has reduced most if you ask me, and this is my department, which I am responsible for, I cannot be responsible for the costs of another ministry, but they have reduced elsewhere. We are in a number of cases, but most of the time at interest costs – we have saved 300, 400 million in these years. So these are internal reserves. The third part, however, is those systemic measures. I talked about these three sets all the time. In this part, yes, look, I don't know the system, I come from an economy that doesn't have an internal reserve. This exists by definition and my appeal to all budgetary users for this year, and this for all, is that we are rational with money. And these are the internal reserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that we have concluded the debate on this Article. Once again, we are in no hurry, so we are going back to filling the list. The procedure is about to begin. We have two reports. Mr. Marian Pojbich, you're first. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you're second. Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u316	Mr President, first of all, I think it is important to stress that we pour pure wine to our citizens and citizens, as well as to the Slovenes and to the Slovenians, so that they can understand exactly what we are talking about in this amendment at all. The fact is that we're talking about averages, we're talking about capitals, and a lot of people don't have time to deal with these words that they don't hear every day, they don't even understand what we're talking about today. And it's only right that we tell them the truth. This is about the money that our Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens have paid into the state budget, or through VAT, or through income and so on. With this amendment adopted on the Committee, a little more money was recovered from the State budget back to the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u317	Mr Member, let us give you a second of pause to get maximum attention from all present. You got it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u318	When we talk about municipalities in the eighth constituency there to Lendava, when we talk about regional development, when we talk about the need to worry about developing this country evenly. With this amendment adopted on the committee, we have given these local communities, not municipalities or municipalities more money than what the Government has accepted, so that they can build kindergartens, schools, local roads, local infrastructure, cleaning facilities and so on. But when the law was passed when the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party to increase the average of 2020 by 130 million and by 2021 by 140 million for local communities was adopted, the coalition has now passed an amendment that, despite the adoption of the law, takes it away from the municipalities. Subtraction. So that I don't owe, because I have a little time at my disposal, I'm only going to say about the Šentilj, the Poet and the Kungota, this is the constituency from which I come. I did one such calculation, not to hold me exactly for the numbers from 1 to 5, but roughly as I will say, it would have been if the Committee had accepted unanimously from all those who voted in favour of this amendment. The municipality of Šentilj would receive more in 2020 and almost EUR 600,000 in principal in 2021 and almost EUR 700,000. The Municipality of Posnica would receive between €500 and €600 000 and €600,000 in 2021. The municipality of Kungota would receive between 300 and 350 000 in 2020 and 2021 around 400 000 euros in average. With this amendment, which you are proposing and most likely to adopt tomorrow, you have taken it away from these municipalities by this amendment, and this is unacceptable. Perhaps I would just mention, too, Mr Bevk here to sit down, he is such a very good Member, but if he votes for this amendment, which is likely to, excuse me, Mr Bevk, you will take away 1.1 million euros from Idrija and Cerknu. Now people have to ask themselves how it is possible that they were so wrong that they voted for such a candidate and thus represent their interests in the National Assembly. I think it's unacceptable that this is unacceptable. Once again, I would like to point out that when the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party was adopted on the Committee, that is, adopted by law, the municipalities in the whole of Slovenia would receive significantly more money for the municipality, infrastructure and for everything we have already talked about today. However, if this amendment is adopted by the coalition, what I have said before will be taken away from these congregations. And that's unacceptable. This is unacceptable and such a parliamentary group, such Members, such a coalition does not work in the interests of people, but works in another interest. And that's not right, and that's unfair, unacceptable and unfair.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u319	I had a feeling, Mr. Bevk alone, that it would come to her. You can't have a replica – I know I'm only here an hour now – because you haven't spoken. With this Mr Joseph Horvath, we will allow 23 minutes of long debate. Here you go. But this will not end today's session. We will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u320	Thank you very much, just take it easy, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Honourable President of the Committee on Finance! Yes, you may wonder why I am also referring to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, a practice in old democracies, including in the European Parliament, to address and also to welcome the president of that working body who is responsible for the law we are considering. Minister Bertonzel, I am grateful that you have also opened the question of the formula, that you have also opened the problem of determining or calculating the production gap. That's the problem. I agree with that. But unfortunately, at this stage of budget adoption, we cannot solve this. I once had this opportunity or privilege to discuss this subject with Mr Schäubl in Germany, when he was also Minister of Finance, who himself said that it was actually a rocket science. But here we are, we have this, this is the National Assembly that has accepted it, and we have to respect it for as long as it doesn't give us any different rules. However, I am certainly not in favour of opening a debate and somehow intruding it in this direction, that fiscal rule is a developmental bar or fiscal pact. Because then it is logical that we are dramatically losing specific weight in the institutions of the European Union. But let's leave it at that. The fiscal world didn't exactly clap. He didn't explicitly say that the budgets were consistent. I made one summary like that on one side. I say just one thing: let's say the Fiscal Council points out that the state budget proposal for 2020 and 2021 represents the continuation of fiscal policy management without a comprehensive set of policies designed to adequately ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances, particularly in relation to population ageing and so on. I won't be long. However, look, I will now touch the amendment itself to Article 54, which has rightly been pointed out by Master Shircelj. The explanation reads: “With the proposed amendment, the amount of the average amount shall be determined as determined by the Government in the proposed law.” We are now considering a complementary proposal for a law. In this amended bill adopted by the Committee on Finance, the government did not have, I will say, fingers next to it. We are now in the technological process here in our house. Here is the parliamentary procedure, here we can ask the government, the government explains why it has decided to do so and so on. But now the thing is in our house. I now have the feeling that someone who has signed this amendment does not understand that we are an independent branch of power. Is that right? Here. But that's not what he's saying. If someone really looked into this, I would say, "Look, fix the amendment, this amendment is not properly filed." But I'm not gonna be here right now. We know what this is all about. It's not even about the Budget Implementation Act. Ladies and gentlemen and the Slovenian public, because it is not at all a capital or an average. This is something completely different, which the First Minister of Charec has said very honestly today. I quote: “We agreed first of all”, probably at that afternoon meal, “we agreed first of all that there is no one in the interest of the government falling”. There's no interest in anyone at lunch, which is probably true. I understand why it's not in the best interest. But you know what hurts? It pains me now that the Slovenian public actually understands the whole policy – because we are all the same – that we, too, because we are all the same, are striving for our own existence, not for 2 million citizens and citizens. That hurts. And that the coalition has failed so much energy, so much political will, so much collegiateness, or, if you want, friendships to accept at least one amendment, for at least 1 million. Because I know it won't, I'm saying it in advance because I know it won't. Look, then it's over. And you expect us to cooperate. No, you have to offer the first hand, you're the authority. I like to repeat, and I am proud to have been the head of the parliamentary group in the 2nd half of the 2004-2008 term. We adopted the budget and decided then to accept some amendments from the opposition. And we accepted them. At that time, I supported the LDS amendment and proposed to the coalition that we support the LDS amendment for 200 000 euros, proposed by my friend Dr Mitja Slavinec, to start with project documentation for one railway and road crossing in the center of Murska Sobota. Fantastic investment, I think 12-16 million. That's when we lit up this 200 grand amendment, and the story had a happy ending. During his previous term, Dr. Miro Cerar went to cut the tape, and this investment took place. If we hadn't accepted this amendment then, it wouldn't have been. How little it takes, how little it takes to reach into our hands and do something good. And when we were in the government for the second time, we accepted the amendment of colleagues from SD and reached, I think, for the first time in this independent country, that we have all supported the budget. That's my real solution. And today, when we have, thank God, economic growth, for which it is exclusively the Slovenian economy, not politics, i.e. employers and workers, would now expect a person to be purely human to reach out and listen to each other. No, no, no. All right, just like you want. If the wire is too small, let's put another Chinese wall between us. Which hurts and feels sorry for me, really, because we're friends, I can go for coffee, lunch, whatever. Of course, when we are discussing politics, we are discussing politics. And it pains me that even though we are in a violent wave of artificial intelligence, be aware, colleagues and colleagues, that the Member, but the Member, is still a man with natural intelligence, with your emotions and your conscience. It pains me to see you become a voting machine tomorrow. The machine. I'm afraid I have to say it like that. It's not that we want, you want this country well. The main thing now is that the government would not fall, lest we accidentally lose any existential advantage. Why have we tabled an amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2020, 2021 in Novi Slovenija, as colleagues in the SDS have done? Because, for the first time, it's right that we unloaded our salaries to lower our income, let's say we rounded up 100 million. But if the government says yes, we lose 100 million income, but we have to take it somewhere. And she took the economy. Okay. I have asked the ministers here for some kind of rationalisation, to show once how the state apparatus is rationalised, or I am thinking too much here because I was almost a quarter of a century in the economy and there was a constant pressure: rationalisation, cost reduction and so on. Maybe this isn't working in politics. I don't know. Let's let it go. Because the municipalities will get 54% of their income under the law, I am speaking on average, so they will get 54 million less because we have reduced their income. Okay. Another time. We all like to say that we want to be a society of knowledge. Don't joke! One is words, the other is actions. Politics with integrity speak what they think, and do what they say. Is that right? Here. But you've been saying for five years that you want to have only and only public schools, read public schools, state schools, state schools, stop private schools. How much do you pay for these public schools, state schools? There has been no invitation to tender for eight years. Why are the congregations here now? Yes, because the congregations are founders of institutions or primary schools. How much do you have in your budget? Five million. Why do I bother this area? Because of the sweet problems. And these are that by 2023 we have an average rush in primary schools, 14 thousand 251 new primary schools coming, above average. This means that we need, if I've calculated correctly, unless the standards change, to worsen, 750 new departments. 750 new departments and you have $5 million to do that. At the beginning of this September, when we requested an urgent meeting of the Education Committee responsible, Minister Jernej Pikalo came to thank us. Apparently he didn't have political power in the government, either he asked or he didn't, I don't know, I'm not in the government to get more money. The Ministry just calculated that it needs 25 million. The mayors said 75 million, now we have 5 million. What kind of society is this? Let's just say once that you're not into primary schools, that you don't want to have them, and you're gonna put maybe sixty students in one class. This is this society, a modern society in the middle of Europe of the third millennium. That is why we have also proposed, among other things, raising the average for 2020 to poor 70 euros and for 2021 to poor 70 euros. We know you can't work primary schools from this elevator. And not just new, new capacities, but as the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Education told me in the hallway, some of the buildings are falling apart. I know that because I'm walking in the field. There was so much almost anger against the municipalities, against the mayors. Yes, logically, what Comrade Polnar said, it is normal that the state level of power wants to "hold down", as we say, local authorities know. And if that is the attitude towards funding municipalities, then, colleagues and colleagues, it is a shame to suffer, it is a waste of effort, and I know that Minister Medved is putting a great deal of effort into doing decentralisation, regionalisation, that is, the province, then it is a waste of this effort. Doesn't matter, well, it doesn't matter that we're going to set up the provinces because of the provinces, look, it doesn't make sense. And then we'll always be bragging about whether or not we're gonna give these provinces as much money as they need right now. I, as a Christian Democrat, because Christian democracy is one of the foundations of the principle of subsidiarity. It is normal for me to seek local self-government: level one and level two. I'm not reading anything. I'm just saying. Why? Because the budget is an economic and political act. If it were just an economic act, we'd be on in half an hour. However, because it is political, there are so many different views on the budget, the most important document in the calendar year, such as political parties. Polnar explained how many years and how much money the congregations have lost in the last few years. If we look at last year. What 54% of income! That's not true. Only 47.6% of their income was effectively paid. So this delta, this difference is 6.3 percentage points. And there's one more thing. I very much ask that this government has a special sense of borderline problem areas. I called on the government to establish a strategic partnership for Pomurje. Why? I argued on a few pages with statistics that we are practically the worst region. What is most worrying is that this region is terribly empty. What I said earlier about students getting into elementary school is 14 thousand 251 more, not in all congregations, of course not. They'll have 44 fewer in Ljutomer, 50 fewer in Murska Sobota. Why? Because the region is empty. Both cities are from Pomurje. Last time I was at an opening in a bilingual village in Prekmurje, where the High Representative of the Ministry said you had a fantasy. The state gave 230 thousand euros first for an ethnic house. It came from this ethnological house, with the same money, an ethnic village, because it's four objects there. We all agreed. If you transfer EUR 230 000 to Ljubljana, you have brought nothing. In the countryside, we can make a miracle out of it. And, yes, remember, there are borderline areas that are emptied for various reasons. Because people pack their suitcases and go out. They're going to Austria because it's a better environment. We trained them, they go out. But that's another topic again. But when the budget's on the table, they're all on the table. Is that right? That's right. And also, thank God that Orban is helping Prekmur. Yeah, you heard right. Just a few million euros. We had a law of Pomur, for which I am extremely grateful, it lasted 10 years, 33 million to promote competitiveness for 33 municipalities in ten years. Calculate how much on average for each congregation per year. 110 grand. Mr Orban has brought in in two years, I don't know how much, I hope the government knows, I think 6 or 8 million. And that's where we lose Slovenians in a competitive fight. I expected the government to understand that. Previous and this. To help the Slovenes, too. No, we're, excuse me, the 13th pig. Sorry, it's not my style, but sometimes I get carried away. And now it's a terrible problem, and now the government will fall, and now Slovenia will collapse if we give the citizen €70 more. So it can't be solved?Oh, my God! And don't feel sorry for the minister. I have to defend him now. He now has a hundred solutions to solve this matter. It is true, however, that this is a total anomaly, that we have an average in the law on budget implementation. It is true that this is what the Minister inherited. But this needs to be put in the budget first, because now we can confirm the budget, all right, and then this little law that will fall. And now it's all gonna fall. This needs to be put into the budget, negotiated first, obtained signatures from all representative associations. I thank Mr. Bear for trying with them, I know he's trying. But, by heart, no representative congregation association has now signed an agreement or agreed to that average. Colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, you're just going to vote, just like you were disciplined. I hope we stay friends. But I believe that people will remember this very well. Whatever. Either they're going to count it as a plus or a minus. Everyone's free, and then it's up to each other. Well, thanks for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u321	Mr Member, now we are going freely. I would very much like to see no abuse of procedural proposals at this hour. Can I count on that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u322	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will propose an amendment to the Rules of Procedure or to the Rules of Procedure of the Commission in the event that my colleague Pojbič appointed me and he acknowledged my behaviour with regard to the amendment, and I could not replicate it because I had not previously been reported for discussion at this point. He could talk to me for ten minutes, half an hour and tell me all sorts of things, and I couldn't object to him. Let me put it this way. Otherwise, I have already provided a number of mandates in the National Assembly, and I have provided for both congregations, Idria and Cerkna, as my colleague Pojbič has told me, a substantial number of funds, perhaps 10 or 20 times more than my colleague Pojbič has told me now, that I will deprive them of this decision when I vote for the amendment of the coalition tomorrow. As it is said, I think that the Rules of Procedure are criminal to Members who have been attacked by their colleagues and cannot replicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u323	Your Honour, you have 20 minutes to sign up for the debate. You can still get your word, almost 20 minutes if I see it right. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm trying to motivate you to apply. If I'm not successful at my motivation, I need to find out that we're moving on. Do you agree? Thank you very much. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to Article 68. I am putting to the debate Article 68 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups of Members. Does anyone want to talk? I'm not successful at this motivation either. I'm sorry. I note, honourable Members, that we will vote on the amendments tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm guessing there's still seven minutes ahead of us, and if you don't mind, we can continue until 12:00 at night, if you'd like. However, if you do not agree, I suggest that at this point we stop the debate and continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. This is only because it is a sign of courtesy to the government, otherwise they will be too limited in time in their presentation. Due to respect for the government, I interrupt and tomorrow in this composition or in a larger composition, see you at nine in the morning. Have a nice evening! (The sitting was suspended 20. NOVEMBER 2019 AT 22.53.)
