ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the fifth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Joseph Horvat, Mag. Andrej Šircelj, Alenka Jeraj, Iva Dimic from 12:15 p.m., Jernej Vrtovac from 15:00 p.m., Predrag Baković from 11:15 p.m., mag. Bojana Muršič from 3 p.m. on and Nada Brinovšek. I welcome all those present once again kindly! We continue to end the 16th item of the agenda, these are Mandate-optional matters. We are moving on to confirm the mandate of a Member who replaces a Member who has terminated his term of office. Since Dr Dari Krajčič ended his term of office on 4 March 2019, the State Election Commission forwarded a decision to the National Assembly establishing that she had the right to act as a Member for the remainder of the term of office of the National Assembly, Mr Nick Prebil. The decision of the National Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the State, which reported in writing to the Assembly, and you received the report and it was published on the e-club. Would they like a word from a representative or a representative of a parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Does he want the word of an MP or an MP? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate. Dear Members and honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 7 of the Law on Members, Article 13 in conjunction with Article 17 and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we vote on the following proposal for a decision: 12. 1991, resident of Dolenska cesta 462A, Škofljica. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite Ambassador Nik Pretbel to join us and occupy his post. Dear Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to the consideration of the Candidate List for the election of a member of the Council of Justice. On 13 February 2019, on the basis of Article 131 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 16, paragraph 3 and 4, of the Law on the Council of Justice, the President of the Republic presented to the National Assembly a candidate list for the election of a member of the Council of Justice, on which two candidates were proposed, Mr Boris Ostruh and Dr Saš Prelic. In order to further explain the candidate list, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u2	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! Following the notification of the resignation of a member of the Council of Justice and following the decision of the Council on the call for replacement elections for one member of the Council of Justice, elected by the President of the Republic on a proposal by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic issued a public call for candidates. We received three nominations for Mr Marjan Feguš on a proposal from the Slovenian Bar Association, Mr Boris Ostruh on his proposal and for Dr Sašo Prelič on a proposal from the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor. The law provides that the National Assembly of members of the Council of Justice shall elect, on a proposal from the President of the Republic, from university professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers and that there shall be more candidates on the candidate list than they shall be elected. Accordingly, and following the assessment of the candidates and after consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, the President of the Republic proposes a candidate list of two candidates for one member of the Council of Justice, namely Mr Boris Ostróch and Dr Saša Prelic. Mr Boris Ostruh is the Deputy Attorney General, who conducted most of his career in the ranks of the prosecution. Thus, in 2007, he became a senior state prosecutor at the office of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and in 2011 he served as the Chief Prosecutor of the State Prosecutor's Office of the Central Prosecutor of the Department of Criminal Affairs. In July 2017 he was appointed Deputy Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. Prior to that appointment, he was also President of the State Prosecutor's Council. On the basis of the work and assessments so far, it can be understood that the candidate has extensive and in-depth expertise and rich experience both in the judicial and executive branches. He does his national prosecutorial work with a strong, conscientious and careful degree of personal and professional integrity. As the Attorney General, he does not perform his functions in the first or second stages and is thus not in direct contact with the judges in his work. Prof. Dr. Saša Prelič is a regular professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor, where he has served as a prodecan for management since 2015. In the framework of the Department of Economic Law, he participates in the subjects of Company Law, Corporate and Company Law and Economic Status Law. At this university he mastered and doctored and was habilized as a regular professor. Law students know him as an excellent lecturer. During his work at the university, he conducted a judicial internship and completed a successful judicial examination. In 2015-2017 he served as a dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor. Regular Prof. Dr. Sašo Prelič is characterized by a clear legal thought, commitment and innovation in dealing with the most difficult legal issues, in particular in the field of economic status law. He wrote over 400 scientific and professional publications, participated in many Slovenian and foreign professional meetings, in drafting amendments and completed Slovenian corporate and insolvent legislation. With high professional integrity and the level of their work, the two proposed candidates meet high standards for the successful performance of the function of a member of the Council of Justice. Therefore, the President of the Republic proposes to elect a new alternate member of the Council of Justice from among them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary-General. Dear Members and honourable Members, I inform you that she is a working mother, this is what the Mandate-Electorial Commission has written to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. This brings us to the vote for the election of a member of the Council of Justice. The fourth paragraph of Article 16 of the Judicial Council Act provides that the President of the Republic shall submit to the National Assembly a candidate list on which the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected but not more than twice as many as the number of members elected. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 16 of the Law on the Council of Justice on the election of the National Assembly, the Council shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission shall vote in secret, composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Andreja Zabret, Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Blaž Pavlin. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. 68 Members and Members attended, 68 votes in favour. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the Commission has been elected on the proposed composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. He shall vote for one candidate. The vote, which will cover more than one number under the name of the proposed candidates, will be invalid. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled vote and a vote from which the Member's will will not be clearly reflected will also be invalid. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for which the majority of Members will vote in favour of the votes in force will be elected. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I draw attention to the provision of the second paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who do not participate in the vote may not have access to the Chamber during the secret ballot. I therefore call on all representatives of the Government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 9.15 p.m. and will last until 9.30 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 9.50. (The sitting was suspended at 9.12. and resumed at 9.50.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u4	Dear Members, we continue our 5th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Before me is the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for a member of the Council of Justice. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 5 March 2019. 79 ballots were distributed, 79 ballots were delivered, 11 votes were invalid, 68 votes were valid. The candidates received the following number of votes: Mr Boris Ostruh 29 votes, Dr Saša Prelič 39 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes cast by the Members who gave the votes in force, Dr Saš Prelič was elected as a member of the Council of Justice. I therefore congratulate the elected member of the Council of Justice and wish him much success in the performance of his duties. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Friday, 8 March 2019. We're moving to 2. On the eve of the day, this is the draft proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2019. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was tabled by the Government. For the presentation of the draft budget rebalancing proposal for 2019, I give the floor first to the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarc. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u5	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a proposal for a rebalancing of the budget for 2019, a basic document for the formulation of the remaining policies of the country, or a document that affects the direction in which we want to take the country. Something is true, compared with a few predecessors, the finance minister had a slightly easier job because of the situation and the public financial picture, and public finances are no doubt burdened by the consequences of past decisions and commitments, and adjustments to the current budget are urgently needed. The proposal for a rebalancing was widely coordinated. I'm not saying that he's perfect or that everyone's happy with him. This was not expected, but the fact is that the document reflects the appropriate relationship between the troika, while ensuring the stability of public finances, taking care of citizens and the wider development of the country. I hate to look back because I don't want to sound incriminating, but I'm gonna take the time to explain something. It is worth recalling that on the night of our appointment, the government was warned by the strike unions of the public sector and added a threat to the general statement to the partially processed requirements. The price demanded – EUR 308 million set by the previous government, the current one has only inherited it, and it is no longer possible. Dealing with less money was practically impossible. Therefore, for all those who have rushed forward since the December signing of the strike agreements with the evidence of the distribution of candy, once again, if the agreement had not been reached, two austerity measures would have been automatically released, at the same time a general sentence could have occurred first, a recurring wave could have followed, and the final amount could have been, believe me, inappropriately higher, twice as much as we have intended to raise wages. These are justified after years of denial and only return to the pre-declination level. You know, if people are hearing about high economic growth every day, it seems logical to them that they would also have something from it, but let me add that I expect a longer period of peace in return, I expect an understanding that new increases are not possible, but I expect work and diligence. The cotton wasn't a higher average either. They were a reflection of the needs of the congregations, and we have already foreseen the consequences of the higher wages agreement. We may not have satisfied everyone, hardly ever, but we reject estimates that we are deaf, and we even more reject the evidence that higher wages are the only cause of higher prices. They're not. This is a common excuse many times, and it is also unfair. The recipient of monetary social assistance, which the government has decided to maintain at the level lawful before the elections, is also a good source of criticism. In addition, it decided to increase the regression or annual allowance for all pensioners. So you can tell us a lot of things, but not callousness. Let me get back to the balance sheet. Many areas will be strengthened financially if I mention just a few. We are planning 1.1 billion euros in investments, which is 30% more than in 2018. To increase security, the government spends an additional EUR 40 million. Compared to previous years, resources for science have increased significantly and amount to €336 million. We devote 1.8 billion euros to education and sport. Social security is allocated 1.18 billion, which is more than EUR 165.5 million in the budget adopted. Indeed, we do raise the expenditure of the state budget slightly, but only at the expense of increasing revenue. To discuss whether we have done enough in the time of the fat cows, I will deliberately avoid it. First of all, because each eye has its own painter. Secondly, because the measures of these past years, which are supposed to be under-sparing, are the work of the previous government. We had to draw the budget framework towards the end of last year and I am pleased that the coalition partners have shown that we cannot use it. We remain within the defined limits or within the maximum amount of expenditure of all four cash registers. I do not stifle my eyes that different actors want more money – for themselves, of course. Most see, hear, and understand themselves and their needs in particular. On the contrary, I am waiting for us as a society to be able to move from criticism and demands to praise and proposals. The shift to work and creation, to the realization that there are responsibilities and not just justice on each individual. We have two different views on the implementation of fiscal policy. Some would have only and only a social state and even more social, although Slovenia is making a lot of money for transfers. On the other hand, those who would tighten the belt would also tighten it and save it to the maximum possible limit. We have chosen an intermediate – a compromise path. Such a path, which will be publicly sustainable, irrespective of possible obstacles. From abroad and from some local circles, we hear warnings that spending is too high and 270 million is too high. Let us not forget that we first listened to warnings of over-expenditure of as much as billions of euros. Again, the same pattern is repeated, in fact, the competition, which will utter a more vague forecast. We could put in a black-eyed week's forecast. I didn't mean to be controversial, but I'm still gonna let that happen. Various professors, by the way, many have received permanent supplements, today teaching us how the balance is bad. Gentlemen, where were you when the state headlessly owed us 32 billion debts today? We've grown 25 billion of this debt in the last 10 years. The city's deficit was up to 14% of GDP. Today, the Fiscal Council is in the way of 100 times less than that amount in 10 years of debt. It is heard from the opposition that we are not preparing for the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, did you prepare the country for the crisis in 2004-2008? On the contrary. You've introduced a lot of things that we shouldn't have in the coming crisis at the time. Many measures have hit the municipal budgets hard. Let me mention only the biggest problem we are facing today – the reform of the wage system in the public sector. They were candy, if not big chocolates with hazelnuts. Who spoke as early as November 2008, I quote: “But at this point the diagnosis is very important, because it is not wise to take measures to combat a disease that is not yet present. If you do not have angina yet, do not take antibiotics.” End of story. It's good that the same people have waited for me in politics to join you and I can tell you this here in person. Not to mention the tycoons who bought and drained the companies expensively, and then the stock value dropped and they wiped out nicely under their noses. I'm sorry, and especially we citizens. Today, Laško beer is bitter twice, for the first time due to hops, and for the second time due to the memory of butal decisions if I paraphrase Vink Möderndorfer. Today, these same professors, who were quiet at the time or even in 2012, after the end of the traffic lights and international anti-saving trains, are calling on the fiscal council to take action against us if the rebalancing is adopted. Oh, holy pardon, I had to look twice, if I could see correctly, because I returned from the celebration of the 80th birthday of my esteemed Professor Boris Cavazza in Ljubljana's Drama, thinking that they had planted something in my glass. Yes, arrest me and Minister Bertonzl today, because tomorrow may be too late. We're happy to have a warm meal, the Internet, three times a day, and we can play basketball and more. But in case we get out of jail, we'll be the star of some kind of television. Isn't that better than having a situation that we probably haven't cooked ourselves, a headache every day? What can I say? It's nice to be an expert in the safe haven of college. Let those who do not belong in this category forgive me the emotional outflow, for generalization is not in place. Of course, we are very well aware of the increased instability of the international environment, the effects of trade wars, the cooling of export partners, and we also know that the situation in the world, Europe and home can change dramatically, but I do not think that this should paralyze us in our work. Concerns about the possible new crisis are soiled, but there is no warning of a break. We can't just sit in a car with one thought of bumping into each other. Of course, we will adapt driving to the situation by using common sense. Businesses are now growing on a healthy basis, they are not indebted, and the situation in banks is different from in 2008, when loans were given there within three days without a realistic assessment of the situation. The country's revenues will increase by 6.2% with the 2019 budget rebalancing proposal, which is slightly more than €600 million compared to what was originally envisaged. The country's expenditure will increase by €463 million to a total of €10.16 billion, an increase of 4.8% more than it was adopted in 2017. At the same time, it is worth stressing that we are also expecting a surplus of somewhat less than €200 million this year. In order to avoid premature judgments, let me also point out that the last debt of a country that was extremely favourable was not intended to increase consumption, but rather to actively reduce the debt that would fall to 66% of GDP next year. In addition, the draft law on the implementation of budgets, inter alia, sets a new limit for the country's permissible debt, amounting to EUR 1.9 billion, which is 1.4 billion less than that laid down in the law in force. A very clear picture is also shown in the cuts by ministries. Almost all of them got more money, so now it's time for action. I expect the prioritisation of the resources and, at the same time, the work as well as the launching of infrastructure projects that will drive development at the time of the forecast cooling. In short, it's time for action, it's time for structural movements. At least after taxes in the area of pensions and health care. Therefore, honourable Members, you will have the opportunity to support them. This will also point to the sincerity of the cooperation to which he is gladly invited. In front of you is a budget rebalancing, partly stolen, if I say so, in advance. Perhaps this time, we should allow ourselves to see what is good and right in it, to recognize that it allows steps in the right direction, to represent a balance of concern for people on the one hand and broader development on the other, but not to the detriment of the stability of public finances. The finance minister, who I am thanking for all his hard work and patience here, has listened to the needs of many. He also listened to the sages coming from this house, its second home, today. The threat with the veto of response. I'm not surprised. However, I hope that at least the argument will be strong, because the one I am hearing today, given all the simultaneous wishes of those who say it, is greatly torn apart and more resembling trade. I know what the main message will be in the coming hours of the debate that the rebalancing is not going to be developmental. Okay. But I'm asking you - developed at the expense of who or what? Guys? To conclude, I will use the words of the Prime Minister of one of the European countries. He told me, "I'm not doing the budget because of Brussels, but because of people." And he's not a socialist, so there'll be no mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertoncl. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u7	Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a rebalancing of the 2019 budget, about which much has already been said. We are aware that, despite good economic trends, we have no easy work to do. Fixing back and taking care of the future is one of the most difficult and responsible tasks. With the proposal for a rebalancing, everyone will never be satisfied. There is no ideal budget. However, all budgetary consumers should be aware that there is still much work and effort ahead of us and that we will all need to find internal reserves together. In preparing the budget rebalancing, we have followed three key guidelines: achieving nominal surplus in public finances, reducing public debt and ensuring the medium-term balance of public finances. When preparing the proposal for a budget rebalancing, we also had in mind the very important steps that await us, these are the structural reforms that will continue to upgrade this rebalancing. The balance of the budget is stable and developmental. It addresses all generations and is friendly to citizens and citizens. We must not forget that at the same time we are also reducing public debt, because it means that we are less indebted and that we create more. In reducing public debt, only Ireland is better now than we are. And it's a good thing to brag. The more favourable economic and public financial trends create a fiscal space that can be used to strengthen domestic consumption by improving the income situation of the population. At the same time, as a driver of domestic consumption, greater domestic investment is also being strengthened in order to enable long-term economic development and stable economic growth. There's a lot of hard work going on. Companies generate more added value and better results. The positive situation in the labour market makes it easier for pension and health bills to meet their obligations. Economic developments are also followed by improvements in the state of public finances. The government also plans for 2019, with a proposal for a rebalancing, to increase faster revenues from expenditure growth and anticipates a surplus of €194 million, or 0.4% of GDP, or 0.35% of GDP, as measured by the ESA methodology. Economic growth has a significant impact on improving public finances, as shown by the increased tax revenue inflows. The revenue of the State budget's proposal for a rebalancing is planned taking into account the key macroeconomic indicators of Umar's autumn forecast and the current tax regime. In terms of expenditure, the Government took into account the ceiling adopted by the National Assembly in December, amounting to €10.16 billion. However, the higher eligible expenditure of the State budget was mainly affected by the adoption of new measures with the implementation in 2019, the agreement on public sector wage policy, the impact of the Social Security Benefits Act, the agreed average for municipalities and the amount of the annual pension allowance. The proposal also provided more resources for priorities such as health, science, infrastructure, culture and European funds. In view of past years, the resources for science are substantially increasing, increasing the competitiveness and added value of the economy in the long term, thus providing a prerequisite for improving the quality of life. A total of €899 million will be earmarked for investment and infrastructure development in various areas of the country's operation. For Slovenia, the debt rule is a basic rule pursued by the Government in the design of economic policies, while at the same time striving to maintain a positive nominal balance of the state sector and, over the medium term, to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. In this context, we ensure an appropriate relationship between ensuring the stability of public finances and the care of citizens and the wider development of the country. The government's exponential attitude towards public finances is evident, and the risks of non-compliance are highlighted. Allow me to explain the Government's position by using some facts. The Commission recognised that the balance of the sector was planned at a higher level than in October when we forwarded it to Brussels, assuming that the balance of the sector was not modified, we increased it by 0.2% of GDP. I would like to point out that Slovenia is in line with the debt reduction rule in 2019 and that Slovenia has made progress in implementing specific recommendations related to structural reforms. The euro area – this is 19 Member States with the euro currency that can serve us for comparison – has decided on a structural deficit of an average of minus 1% of GDP and we are expected to achieve a structural surplus of plus 0.25% of GDP. So we should differ from the euro area we are part of by 1.2 percentage points of GDP just to satisfy the mechanical rules of calculation. EU expert groups are already discussing a new MTO, access to flexibility clauses, a three-year deadline. Let me stress that the euro area for 2019 has a projected deficit of on average minus 0.8% of GDP and Slovenia has a projected surplus of 0.55% of GDP. Our debt is also on average, with 85% of GDP on average and 66% of GDP on Slovenia. However, our economic growth is twice as high as the average of the euro states. Furthermore, the structure of expenditure should be properly reviewed, identified and not only monitored ex ante and ex post evaluations. Slovenia is considered to be significantly different in the preventive hand of the ex ante pact almost every year and the ex post results are getting better. The structural balance was estimated at minus 0,7 % in the 2017 stability programme for 2018 and at minus 2,3 % by the European Commission. It turns out that we were actually balanced. This was finally confirmed by the Fiscal Council in its assessment, although initially it was significantly more critical before the evaluations. If we look at the calculation of the medium-term objective, the fiscal rule says nothing about it, and experts have long challenged its formula for calculation, where the costs of ageing by 2070 are the same weight as the state of public debt, which is in the hands of the Government. The State has at least three roles within its functions: allocatetal, distribution and stabilisation. But it's not a follow-up, it's a priority. There is no need for redistribution at any time of priority; there may ever be a need for stability in the country, ensuring normal functioning, maintaining growth over consumption before meeting the rules. What, then, is the right course? Who can it be taken from? It is therefore right that the criteria of fiscal policy be passed on to the medium term. The fiscal adjustment matrix should therefore be in force on the medium term and not year after year require drastic cuts. The analysis of the European Commission in public finances also shows a significant gap between the actual and required fiscal efforts of the Member States and the deviations from the objective. Many countries in this so-called preventive deadline are moving away from this. Let me mention that spending limits are also being raised due to the EU's use of funds. We still need to speed up the dynamics. We didn't cut our investments to take into account the mathematical formula. In 2018, the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, has all the laws, all the rights that you considered to be for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens, confirmations and rebalancing has more than 90% of the funds due to the legal consequences. So how can we talk about fiscal space — academic or political? In order to achieve the mathematically defined medium-term objective in 2019, structurally difficult and rapid fiscal consolidation would be necessary, which could have negative consequences for further economic growth and the well-being of the population. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore focusing on a new medium-term fiscal objective in the new EU Semester cycle and will adopt measures and reforms in order to achieve this objective and to promote economic activity and increase productivity. Slovenia will also continue its activities to achieve the long-term sustainability of public finances. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will respond to the spring EU documents of the semester and address the medium-term challenges accordingly. The path of fiscal consolidation, as will be outlined next month with the framework 2020-2022 and the new medium-term objective, which should allow us to ensure not only the objective and stability of public finances, but also an adequate level of economic growth and prosperity for the population. Let me stress once again that, with the proposal for a budget rebalancing, we have also laid the foundations for the structural reforms ahead of us. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a rebalancing be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary for your presentation. The proposal for a rebalancing also addressed the parent body, this is the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President, Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u9	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! At its 6th meeting, on 2 March this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was informed of the opinions of the following interested working bodies, virtually all bodies of the working bodies of the National Assembly, which took note of the proposal for a rebalancing and did not accept their amendments. The Committee also received an opinion from the State Council, which does not support the proposal for a rebalancing. The Committee was also informed of the following documents: the assessment of the Fiscal Council, the opinion of the Council of Justice and the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the assessment of the Fiscal Council. During the business term, qualified candidates tabled 34 amendments, namely the Slovenian National Party's Group of 2 amendments; the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of 16 amendments and the New Slovenia Group of Christians' Democrats 16 amendments. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Government, representatives of Umar and the Fiscal Council attended the meetings of the Committee. The initial explanation of the proposed rebalancing was given by the Minister of Finance and said that the rebalancing follows the key orientations: achieving a nominal surplus in public finances, reducing public debt and ensuring the medium-term balance of public finances. He explained that the balance sheet was stable and developmental. The State Treasury is expected to have a surplus of 193 million in 2019, representing 0.4 % of gross domestic product. He also presented the priorities of the rebalancing, such as health, science, infrastructure and European funds. The rapporteurs of interested working bodies presented the Committee's reports. The Executive Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development briefly presented the general economic picture for 2019 and said that the proposal for a rebalancing was based on the starting points of the Umarje autumn forecast in 2018. It said that the forecasts were slightly lower than actual realisation, in particular increased economic growth, increased consumption, both public and private, increased investment and increased employment rates. The only exports from macroeconomic aggregates were slightly lower than expected. It pointed out that positive prospects continue in the future and announced the spring forecast of Umar, which will be known at the end of March. The representative of the Council of State presented the opinion of the Council of State, which does not support the proposal for a rebalancing. The representative of the Fiscal Council initially presented an assessment based on the preparation of the Fiscal Rule Act and made three key findings. For the first time, that expenditure is steadily and irrevocably increasing, this is not the case on the revenue side, since there are no structural measures and therefore there is a risk. Secondly, he highlighted the issue of structural deficit, where maintenance of the already achieved situation is needed. Thirdly, since there is no budget framework for the state sector for the next three years, there is no medium-term dimension. In the debate, some Members felt that the proposal for a rebalancing did not guarantee the medium-term stability of public finances, as it increases expenditure and does not provide sufficient revenue. Some pointed out that the Government had not submitted any structural measures and that the balance sheet did not reflect the medium-term dimension. On the contrary, some members and members of the Committee felt that the balance sheet was stable and developmental, as Slovenia has a public financial surplus and stable public finances. The Committee further identified the amendments tabled by qualified applicants in accordance with Article 166 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not support any amendments. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee on Finance supports the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. Mr Igor Zorčič, Emissary Group of the Modern Centre Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly, colleagues, colleagues. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we advocate a social, developmental and sustainable policy that will enable all citizens and citizens to live a decent life. In line with this, we estimate that policies, in terms of the allocations, are based on the proposal for a budget rebalancing, are correct. With a balance, almost all ministries will receive more resources to implement their policies. In particular, we welcome the fact that there is a large proportion of additional resources to implement entrepreneurship policies, improve competitiveness, education and science, transport, transport infrastructure, culture, the environment, security and social security. In view of our current budget, they have gained relatively more resources through the rebalancing, especially at the Ministry of Labour, and also at the Ministry of Education, after the increase in the share they have gained at the Ministry of Environment and Space, which means that they will be able to implement these policies more effectively and in a more coherent manner. In particular, we are pleased that our past efforts have eliminated virtually all austerity measures in the area of family transfers and transfers to the most vulnerable individuals and households. This touches on the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities, which will fully release children's allowances and state scholarships. The allowance for large families becomes a universal right and is no longer linked to censorship. This year's maternity allowance is unlimited. The parental allowance limit shall be returned from double the average wage to 2.5 times. However, maternity benefits will once again represent 100 % of the average wage in the last 12 months. Slovenia remains and is strengthened as a social state, as well as a country with one of the most favourable family policies in the European Union. The financial plan of the Ministry of Environment and Space will increase by around €72 million with the rebalancing of the budget for 2019. Additional resources are planned to combat climate change, rehabilitate degraded areas, prevent flood protection and housing policy. It seems important to us, as mentioned earlier, that the Ministry of Economic Development is also increasing its resources, allowing the Ministry to continue its activities in the areas of structural transformation, economy, investment promotion, economic competitiveness and measures to improve the business environment. The government follows all these priority policies, achieves surpluses in public finances and also reduces debt, which is still above 60% of GDP, but decreases with the expected dynamics and will, in terms of the rule, be long in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact at the end of this government's medium-term period, meaning that, in terms of the debt rule, Slovenia is in line with or in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. Nevertheless, we are somewhat concerned about ensuring the medium-term balance of public finances, which has been pointed out by both the Fiscal Council and the European Commission. We take these warnings well and seriously not only because of the commitments we have made with the fiscal rule and because of the European Semester, the cycle of coordination of EU Member States' budgetary and economic policies, but mainly because of the fact that Slovenia, as a small and open country, is very sensitive to fluctuations in the economic and financial markets that could be affected by brexit, the trade war between the United States, China and other events leading to the cooling of the global economy. That is why we must be a good master, you do not want to resist the temptation to over-exploit ourselves, and also in times of favourable economic conditions, we must pursue a long-term sustainable public financial policy. In the Modern Centre Party, we wish to point out that we have so far pursued a sustainable fiscal policy that has contributed to the surpluses that we have committed to citizens and citizens, all of which must now be used for structural measures that will have a positive impact on future public financial movements and that will achieve a shift in development if, as a society, we want to preserve prosperity. With the responsible management of fiscal policy in past mandates, we are in a position today to decide more freely, despite some restrictions and commitments, on the allocation of budgetary resources and to consider how we will take all these warnings into account in the next budget. At the modern centre, we are advocates of a sustainable fiscal policy, which we have not been able to prove in the past mandate, but we are also advocates of socially oriented policies that have significantly colored the balance of the budget that we are deciding on today. We believe that the present proposal for a rebalancing is based on solid backgrounds of the results of the past and that it is at the same time development-oriented, so we will support it in the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u13	Hello! Thank you for your word. Allow me, on behalf of the Left Group, to briefly define myself until the draft budget rebalancing proposal for 2019. First, I'd like to start with a general orientation. The budget critics mainly come from the right side and from the Fiscal Council. They say that this is costly, that it is too expansive, that it is not sufficiently cost-effective to exceed the structural limits on the deficits allowed to us by the European Union. I'm thinking the other way around. I think that the general direction of this budget is correct. Umar points out that Slovenian exports are cooling down, mainly due to a decrease in Germany's economic growth. I also warned myself a few months ago with that metaphor about Achilles Five, and it's happening now. As a result, our exports have started to shrink slightly and what the state has to do in this case is to slightly increase domestic consumption in order to maintain economic growth and thus the full budget for next year. The other thing that confuses me here is that somehow it insists on this fetish of savings. Some are so secure in that saving is the only right way to save during the crisis, because there was no money at the time, they would save now that there was economic growth, because there was a new crisis ahead of us, and they would save during the potential future crisis, because they would say again, there was no money, there was a crisis, we must not exceed the structural constraints imposed on us by the European Union. This is total nonsense, both developmental and ideological. If you look at how the developed Western countries worked with their budgets, you will see that, say, Germany has practically never had a budget surplus between 1960 and 2000. Policy has always been a moderate deficit, of course a little bit higher during the crisis, there is a relatively flat budget during the conjuncture and the debt collected is offset by economic growth. It's just some smart policy that worked in the West after the war. What we are going today is a departure from what is stifling all of Europe and is why it is difficult to find a community of countries in the world that would develop so poorly in ten years and be as politically turbulent as the European Union. If you read the history of the last ten years of the European Union, you will also see how this has happened. The US emerged from the crisis in almost two years with a financial injection into the financial sector and with increased public spending. In China, the crisis has been virtually avoided by huge infrastructure projects, but Europe has gone the other way, but this is the second time that has happened. In 2008, French President Sarkozy convened a meeting of leaders of influential European countries. Gordon Brown was then the British Prime Minister, Zapatero, who was the Spanish Prime Minister, Berlusconi, Sarkozy was alone there, and they were talking about how to deal with the crisis that was coming to Europe. Their proposal was to create a common European rescue plan. They proposed that each Member State of the European Union contribute 3% of its GDP to a common fund, which would then save the occupied banks and funds and thus avoid a scenario where each country should solve the crisis itself. Why didn't that happen? Because Angela Merkel didn't come to the meeting. Sarkozy called her, and when the journalists asked him what she had told him, why she did not attend the meeting, the picker, such as Sarkozy was occasionally, said that she had told him something like "chacun from the Merde" in her ear, which in her free translation means "no common solution, let everyone clean up their shit". And when Christine Lagarde asked how she imagined it, she said, "We don't care, Germany will solve its crisis, let it stay." And she did not care how Cyprus or Greece or Slovenia or other small countries that did not cause the crisis – Germany or France did not cause us to understand each other, any of these countries – it was a crisis of Euro-Atlantic finances. They didn't care. And what did they do? They forced countries to pour billions of euros into banks, but at the same time we fell into these Maastricht criteria that tell us what surplus or deficit we should have in the budget. So we fell into a ten-year development trap. Now we're getting out of it, but some are still fetishizing this development that we've been following for the last ten years, and they're saying it was the right way. Why are they doing this? I think that, on the one hand, out of hatred for the public sector, on the other hand, because I believe that low taxes and a narrow public sector are the way to success. But, again, all the experiences show otherwise. If I finish this general orientation here, I think it's right. The crisis is over, people have endured a decade of savings, and it is right that this time social transfers are released in the budget. There's no more saving on baby supplements, obstetrics or anything like that. There is no more saving on social assistance, which has grown by almost 100 euros also on the Left initiative. Public sector wages are increasing, science funds are increasing by 24.5 million, and pensions are rising moderately. This is all good news. More money will be in the economy, more money will be spent on domestic consumption, which will also help keep the economy growing robust this year. In Levi, we have comments on the budget. There are resources in which numbers are problematic. One such resource is the sector for the economy. If you look at how subsidies are increasing this year, you will see that subsidies for the economy are increasing by as much as €117 million last year, a total of 445 million this year. There are some problems here. Most of these subsidies are irreversible, they are direct subsidies to the economy and nothing comes back or the country gets a share of them. The second problem is that priorities have not been well chosen. There are sectors that are undernourished. One of them is science. Although I said earlier that the funds for 24.5 million are increasing, both scientists and Levic estimate that this increase is too small. Here I will borrow the words of Matjaž Barborič, a Slovenian scientist who was a few days ago on the MMC RTV portal, for his discovery – researching how cells respond to DNA defects. There he also spoke about the financing of science and said: “Now we are increasingly going to use the findings somehow directly for therapeutic purposes.” So it's going to some applied science. But then he adds: “But basic research is still basic, without it there is no therapy, so it is essential that the countries of basic research support thoroughly.” In Finland, there is a great deal of attention to this. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Slovenia. According to public funding for science we are still on the tail of Europe and many scientists such as Matjaž Barbaraič, these scientific breakthroughs do not work at the Faculty of Medicine, at the Institute of Joseph Stefan, at Sazuj or elsewhere, but they are carried out abroad, although they would probably have stayed in Slovenia when they started their career, if they had the right conditions and, of course, finances. Another such priority we have been alerted to is the Slovenian film. I think that the country should be sensitive and observe what is happening in certain spheres and support those where the breakthroughs are taking place. In the Slovenian film last year there were certainly significant breakthroughs and generation fractures. Young film producers have made amazing films like that. I won't be a loser anymore, Consequences. They won awards at international festivals, they ranked on British HBOs, they lined up by cinematographers in California, Britain, etc. However, Slovenian funding for the film is on the tail of comparable European countries. In Croatian, the average movie costs three times as much as in Slovenia, says the country spends three times as much money, in Germany costs as ten times as much. Germany spends more on one film than we give to the entire film sector. Here I stress that when such things happen, the government should notice this and start supporting these producers or this sphere, because these are, however, pro-pulsive industries that contribute both to some creative activity and ultimately to the promotion of the country, tourism and everything that comes along. They have a remarkable multiplier. If I move forward with criticism here. It is much smarter to invest in such things than to spend hundreds of millions of euros on defence. Here we are pleased that the job of buying boxers has been cut short, it is said, by eight-wheelers who would cost the country more than 300 or even 350 million euros. We are also pleased that the item for purchasing oshkoshev from 52 million, as foreseen in the draft budget, has decreased to 32 million, as it now stands. However, we continue to point out in Levica that the most pointless purchases of this equipment are from the point of view of national economic investment. If we give 350 million to the film, we will get coverage of film activities for the next 15 years, many outstanding products, promotion of the country and everything that comes along, in short, a remarkable multiplier. If we give 350 million pensioners higher pensions, we've also done something right. Pensioners will spend money on local merchants, innkeepers, pay wages to local farmers, something will return to the state treasury through taxes. But if we buy 350 million shells, this money goes directly out of the country and does not create any added value and no multiplier effect in us. It is therefore necessary to look at this purely economic, strictly rational and invest in areas where we can create multipliers and value added. Some things are missing in the budget. One of these areas is housing. This is what we in Levika have been reminding us of since we are in Parliament. The funds for the Republic National Fund are minor and in fact this Fund has no other business choice than to act as a private real estate agency. Since he does not have public funds to build public non-profit rental apartments, he decided to do something else: buy a plot, build an apartment, say in Brdo pri Ljubljana, then use high prices on the market and these apartments for several times the stake sale. And that's how they create capital so they can build on it. But that's not the purpose of this fund. The purpose of this fund is not to build apartments that will be costlyly sold. The purpose of this fund is not to build apartments in luxury locations or for luxury consumption, which also costs EUR 3,000 per square. The aim of this Fund should be to ensure that young people who have been over 20 years of age or 30 years of age can obtain affordable housing at affordable prices without having to be credited for a lifetime of active life, for 20, 30 years or more. This should be the responsibility of the Republic Housing Fund. But the prerequisite for him to start doing this is that we provide him with an appropriate budget item. I believe we will resolve this in the next two budgets. At the time of adoption of this budget, the Government and the Left shall conclude an agreement for 2019 in which one of the priority areas of housing policy is mentioned. I think it's kind of a perspective that after a quarter of a century, the housing policy flaw in this country is also starting to work in this area. In Levi, we will support the budget, and we expect coalition parties to conclude an agreement with us before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u15	Good afternoon, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers and ministers. When we were still sitting together with the Prime Minister of the Municipal Council of Stone, he repeatedly wandered over state policy, how the state does not listen to the congregations, how we all drown in bureaucracy and so forth. When we faced the last elections on Slovenian television, the following words could be heard from Marjan Šarc's mouth several times, which I now quote, “now is the time for a new generation”, “in the future it is possible to work differently, in a new way”, “I stand for the return of political culture”. I agree with all these statements, and I have made such statements myself. Of course, it is crucial for politics to do what it says in practice. In view of the current pace of adopting the rebalancing of the 2019 budget, it is clear that the campaign was unfortunately empty. Instead of a new policy, the old one returns to the big door, unfortunately in the worst sense of the word. This is a vote without any dialogue. The government seems to be overhearing the opposition – listen to this – the opposition has proposed about €80 million in changes and the government has not taken into account a cent of the opposition's changes. If I paraphrase the President of the Government a little bit, which says, when you get in the car, you don't mean an accident, but you follow the situation and you act rationally and you adjust the driving situation, then this ride seems like the President of the Government is holding the wheel and he's not listening to anyone in this car, even though he's proposing meaningful and good things. History has repeatedly shown that long - term cooperation alone brings good solutions. When Slovenian politics was breathing with both lunges, the result was always good. The government says it feels great, even though it only breathes with one lung, and forgets that it will be tired of the first serious and bigger slaughterhouse. The President of the Government also offered to participate in the next structural reforms. But I can imagine how he imagines this cooperation. So – what we bring, support, this is cooperation. If you have any suggestions, if you want us to have a dialogue, then it's already throwing it under your feet. Take it or let it work. I remember December 2012, when I first participated as a Member in the adoption of budgetary documents. A living ring has been concluded around Parliament. At the time, the Social Democrats tabled an amendment of €16 million, which was required by higher education. At that time, I was the youngest coalition leader of the parliamentary group, and I listened in detail to the debate at that time. Some opposition parliamentary groups have announced support for the budget if an amendment of 16 million euros is adopted. Our then coalition was, of course, determined not to accept it. But the debate at the time did not leave me alone, and I allowed myself one of the coalition offences that was not best accepted at the time, as I requested 45 minutes of suspension before the vote for the Group's consultation. In my own ears, I wanted to hear once again from Finance Minister Šuštersič that there is really no way to find these 16 million euros. To my great surprise, then the finance minister said he didn't see the problem with the 16 million. After the break, we announced as a coalition party support for the opposition amendment. The opposition amendment was adopted by 79 votes to none. Higher education or science received an additional EUR 16 million. At that time, part of the opposition supported the 2012 budget. Many times the senseless insistence on rejecting opposition proposals builds unnecessary walls and deepens policy failures. I also remember my first days in Parliament when I worked in the NSI Group of Members of Parliament during the first Janša government. I recall the coordination in which there has also been a lot of debate within our parliamentary group about which opposition supplements we will support and which we do not. During this time several opposition amendments were adopted in the budget. After this period, the conflict between the opposition and the coalition began to deepen more or less. The opposition amendments in the coalition party's budget have since ceased to support. In the last period, this has already grown into a real obsession that the coalition strictly rejects such good opposition proposals. At this point, of course, I could tell you ten or twenty minutes thick, with what I do not agree in the budget or where all is too little money. So I'm resisting. I see no point in this if someone is determined in advance not to support anything from the opposition, even though we could vote that today is just outside the day. And since the opposition is proposing, it is likely that the coalition would vote against it. We've come so far. And just so there's no mistake, it's not all bad in this rebalancing. You heard right. Not everything is wrong with this budget balance. But there are also some things in this budget balance that are overlooked. New Slovenia's amendments are aimed, for example, at increasing research and development funds that have fallen below the average of the European Union in the last period. Apparently, both Nova Slovenija and Levica could be caught here. Our amendments are also directed towards Slovenians in place and around the world, which are treated by the proposed rebalancing extremely machete. It's not true what the president of the government said everyone got more money. The office for Slovenians is in place and around the world is one who'll get fewer. Why? Because the secretaries of state will take what has been added to their salaries. We have also tabled amendments to improve infrastructure in many municipalities. These are, for example, areas that could be a point where we might find a common language. Where maybe the whole policy could find common denominators at the expense of inefficient subsidies in the economy. In Novi Slovenija, we find subsidies meaningless, meaningless in the sense that we first collect money from taxpayers, then distribute it again through some calls. If the state wants to help the economy, then let it do so to cancel the tax work. All we want is reasonable and reasoned debates. We want a substantive approach and a broader political consensus when adopting budgetary documents. It is this breadth that separates policies from statesmen, good from bad government presidents and, if you want, inclusive leaders from authoritarians. There is nothing wrong with the coalition admitting that certain areas have simply been overlooked in the preparation of the budget. The coalition did not listen to the opposition, nor did it listen to another opinion of the Fiscal Council, did it listen to another opinion of the European Commission, and listened to the blackmail of the Left, and the party in which the ministers of this coalition are on the other hand being insulted by expressions such as ministerial pavilions and ministerial announcements for another year. Dear Minister, Cerar and Erjavec, does it really have to be very difficult to endure such insults? Dear coalition, you've made up your mind, and so have we. In a debate where no one listens to you, it's a shame every word. We will vote against it in NS because we want to make it clear that we are against the beating of dialogue. Distribution has never brought anything else. If you think the path of ignoring and voting is the right one, then go ahead. In the end, you'll be left alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Ms Maša Kociper on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u17	Dear Minister and Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me first of all make it clear that the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, will support the current budget balance and that we are opposed to the content of this balance to inappropriate conditions, not to say blackmail, by the party Levica. However, each time the budget is rebalanced, it also always indicates the political direction of the current government. Each time, this is an extremely demanding project where spears are broken. Within all budgetary users, the needs need to be harmonised and the cuts distributed across individual ministries should be distributed. Desires and needs are real, but money is never enough, we all know that. It is therefore necessary to remain within certain frameworks that exist. There is a need to approach the allocation of resources in a sound and prudent manner and to have both public debt and medium-term sustainability in mind on the one hand and to set up areas such as social categories, as well as areas of added value, since this can only bring us competitive economies and long-term sustainable economic growth. At the Alenka Party, Brother Rebalance, which is ahead of us, is considered a good one. In view of the current government, it is also a little more social, which we think is appropriate. Six consecutive years of economic growth, which is greater than the average in the European Union, must finally be felt by individuals, our citizens. Thus, we raised wages in the public sector, minimum wages and social contributions, and provided higher averages for the municipalities. If we don't listen to people, something can happen to us what's going on in Paris, and then we're going to need these mistakes to be expensive, very expensive to pay. Over the past years, we have managed to stabilise the financial system in Slovenia and create the conditions for relaunching the economy. In fact, we have been recording economic growth since 2014, when our President, Alenka Bratušek, led the government. We are proud that the measures of the worst crisis have produced fruit and that we can also promote further growth in the rebalancing of resources and at the same time earmark resources to reduce the country's debt. The way to the good times we enjoy today was very difficult, if you remember. Therefore, we must now be extremely careful not to waste this effort too quickly. We believe in the party that maintaining surpluses and striving to reduce public debt are the right course and the right way to achieve this objective. According to our assessment, the balance sheet is prepared on realistic assumptions, both on the income and on the expenditure side. Of course, in Alenka Bratušek as well as in all other parties, we are not fully satisfied this time. Each of the coalition partners probably wants certain things to run differently or faster, and they are having a hard time coping with them. There is no secret about what is most wrong with Alenka Bratušek – pensioners. That was our pre-election priority. It is difficult for us to understand that the EUR 240 million already provided in the budget provided by the pension line has been used for other things than to fulfil the coalition commitments under which all members of the coalition have signed. At the time of the signing of the ZIPRS, the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, our President pointed out that the resources in this item are sufficient to regulate the additional part of the pensioners, to pay the annual allowance or regress at two levels, as well as probably for the initial funds for a gradual increase in the rate. By implementing these commitments, we would respond to the most pressing problems of pensioners and at the same time raise confidence in the pension system in a generation that is now active. The funds provided to pensioners in the already adopted 2019 budget are now falling. The priority, as it is said, is given to others, and the pensioners will have to wait for their time, so at least talk, and pay a high price. Therefore, we hope that all of you will understand together our disappointment that we have not implemented all of these measures since 1 January 2019, as agreed. Only in this way would the austerity measures for pensioners as well as for other target groups finally end. We will therefore continue to advocate for the earliest possible realization of these commitments in our party, and we will give a strong warning and hope that this will happen as soon as possible. On the other hand, it is the fact that we have a record balance and that it is rightly accompanied by high expectations. Some are related to problematic areas, and for us there is no doubt one such area of waiting species. At Alenka Bratušek, we have pointed out many times that waiting lines need to be stopped and that the patient should be placed at the centre of health care and allowed to receive such care as is urgently needed. We believe that the resources of the Ministry of Health have been allocated sufficiently, that this will significantly reduce waiting periods and that all measures that are urgently needed can be taken. At the same time, we also pay special attention to the developments at the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world and the Service for Development and Cohesion. In no way can we be satisfied with the increase that has been made to the Slovenian Office in place and around the world, since the design of any plans at this Ministry is not possible, since the additional resources will barely cover what has brought an increase in wages in line with the release of the Zujf pay grade. As our Minister has said, caring for the diaspora, which is also imposed by Article 5 of the Constitution, does not only mean waving flags but also investments. On the other hand, we are more satisfied with the balance of the infrastructure ministry. It reflects the realisation of the commitments entered into the coalition contract and provides that the funds allocated to road and rail infrastructure will not be reduced in 2019 in relation to the previous year. Transport infrastructure is one of the key growth generators, so it is particularly important that the biggest increase in investment is right there. In the light of sustainable development, we are also looking forward to all planned investments in projects that will lead Slovenia towards a different future and also to measures to improve road safety. Finally, a few words on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets, which is accompanied by an annual budget or a rebalancing. This is finally what it needs to be — technical. But, of course, something's bothering us again. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we want all issues related to the work of pensioners to be regulated in the system law, not in the Budget Implementation Act and, as we say, in the budget we are preparing today, to provide a solution to all these problems already. However, the Prime Minister again assured us yesterday that all the agreed measures for which we committed ourselves in the coalition agreement would be implemented in a short time and that they were already being prepared in the department. We trust him and believe that all these changes, or this law, will be prepared as soon as possible and put on the path to parliament. That's why we're going to confirm the current balance at the Alenka Bratusek Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Member Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u19	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The adoption of the budget balance should result in a technically financial and also political operation from established practice. I'm making two statements for the introduction. The first statement states: only a balanced budget is a good budget. The second argument is that the basic rule is that the budget should never be balanced, except at a time when the budget surplus for managing inflation turns into a budget deficit to combat recession. Two opposing claims. The first neo-classical and second post-keynesian, best illustrates the decision-making dilemma in addressing the rebalancing of the budget for 2019. The financial consolidation becomes the point of the budget strategy of Archimedes, with the expected economic downturn. Fiscal policy has also been at the centre of biliary political debate. Consolidation of public finances is necessary, but the order and combination of measures to be taken in this regard are the object of different views. The fundamental problem remains: how can fiscal and other policies promote economic growth, increase competitiveness and maintain social sustainability? This is not just a technical issue, but also a substantive solution to the problems. The logic of political economic cycles is inexcusable. Legislative and executive powers must start with short-term measures, while consistent establishment of medium- and long-term structural reforms is needed. The volatile situation in the area of public finances is a limiting factor. But politicians and planners of any reform must not overlook the time component. Short-term problems cannot be resolved through structural reforms that operate on medium or long term. We cannot solve the current budgetary problems with health or pension reform. Public administration reform and the rationalisation of public sector costs also require good public management and a time of structural adjustment. The government should therefore not set too many targets in terms of the management of economic policies, given the number of instruments available and the possibilities for action to avoid the traps of economic policy management, where their effects do not come at the same time as measures and their costs. The budget balance for 2019 changes in November 2017 to the budget adopted for 2019. This was based on different macroeconomic assumptions. Economic growth is more than half a percent of GDP than anticipated. Import and export growth is higher. Exports are expected to increase by 6,6 % of GDP and imports by 7,1 % of GDP. Private and public consumption are also higher than expected. In particular, the increase in investment in fixed assets, which is expected to increase by 2.4% compared to the 2017 forecast, appears during the changes in forecasts for 2019. Coordination of public revenue and expenditure is the most important task of budgetary policy in a particular financial year. In line with higher economic growth, higher budget revenues will be based on the budget adopted for €603 million. There is also an increase in budget expenditure of €463 million. A higher budget surplus than planned will also be generated by faster growth of income over revenue. The amount of the budget surplus between 2018 and 2019 is not comparable due to the extraordinary revenue that came into the 2018 budget in the form of dividends from Nova Ljubljanska Banka. A much more visible comparison of the differences between the adopted 2019 budget and the rebalancing, where the surplus is higher than the one planned for almost 260% or the poor 140 million euros. The planned budget surplus of €193 million and 0.4% of gross domestic product will have an impact on the reduction of government debt in GDP. On the basis of the adopted funding programme for the State budget for 2019, December 2018, the debt of the State budget is expected to decrease from EUR 29 000 180 million to EUR 28 000 350 million. In the nominal amount, this would be exactly €827 million. The amount of the debt reduction is planned without any revenue received from privatisations in 2019, which is to be highlighted in particular. In the economic history of independent Slovenia, we achieved a reduction in the debt of the state budget in the actual amount only in 2008 compared to 2007. At that time, the debt was reduced to EUR 214 million. However, the special category is the interest we pay for the debt incurred. The amount of interest payments in the balance sheet of the 2019 budget is EUR 785 million, and for this reason the state budget must generate a higher primary surplus, which means the surplus of income over revenue without taking into account interest. This surplus is planned to amount to €977.5 million for 2019 and its implementation means the achievement of debt servicing objectives and costs. There is something else about the main orientations of the budget's rebalancing by policy. The implementation of social security policies amounts to €180 million, which is more than €165 million more than in the 2019 budget adopted. This will result in higher social transfers such as child allowance, cash social assistance, unemployment allowance, disability allowance and other transfers. For the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, it is important that pension increases are also included in the budget balance on the basis of amendments to the law on the implementation of budgets. In addition to the regular coordination of pensions of 2,7 %, co-ordination of 1,5 % will also be exceptional as economic growth, which exceeded 4 % of gross domestic product, was achieved in 2018. It is also important to take account of the five-grade additional annual scale in pension transfers in the budget balance sheet. This allows pensioners to receive the maximum amount of the annual allowance with the lowest pensions. The investment orientation of the balance sheet confirms the strong growth of investment expenditure and investment transfers. In the rebalancing 2019, according to the 2019 budget adopted, there is an increase of 189 million euros, with investment growth of 258 million euros over the previous year. Investment expenditure growth is, to a large extent, linked to the use of European funds. Here, a smaller gap between planned funds and actual payments will be crucial on the basis of the accelerated measures set out in the action plan to accelerate the absorption of funds from the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020. The programming priorities show the developmental orientation of the budget's rebalancing, as more resources are allocated to human resources by investing in education and sport policies for which €800 million will be earmarked, 103 million more than in the adopted budget or poor €100 million more than in the 2018 budget. The growth of funds for entrepreneurship and competitiveness policies is also pronounced as expenditure increases by €43 million in the light of the budget adopted in 2019 and €39 million in the light of the past year's implementation. Providing resources for this area is important because policies to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness are pursuing the objectives of maintaining and increasing economic growth and competitiveness by developing the competences and capacities of enterprises and responding to demands in the macroeconomic environment. For the future development of Slovenia, the field of science and information society is important. Investments in science and the information society contribute to increasing competitiveness and the added value of the economy through measures to promote innovation and the introduction of technologically advanced products and services. Science is a priority as it increases the competitiveness and added value of the economy in the long term and thus provides preconditions for increasing general social well-being. In doing so, particular emphasis is placed on the openness and quality of the system. In view of the implementation in 2018, funds in this area are increasing from EUR 244 million to EUR 336 million. In the field of labour market policy and working conditions, expenditure is intended for measures on the labour market aimed at increasing employment and raising the rate of employment of the population. The measures are aimed at increasing employment with a focus on vulnerable groups, long-term unemployed, among whom older unemployed are dominated. The funds for these purposes will amount to a good EUR 300 million. In view of the realisation, there is an increase of €14 million, but it should be pointed out that the draft budget for 2019 provides for the number of unemployed 79 000 500 and that this year is actually going to be 73 thousand 900. Investment in transport infrastructure is one of the key generators of economic growth. Investments in transport and transport infrastructure policies are aimed at ensuring viable public rail infrastructure and road transport and transport safety and raising standards of regular maintenance. The balance of the budget focused mainly on increasing funding for rail infrastructure also by providing European Union funding for the second track. Funds will be provided for sections on the third development axis of €19 million. This appropriation is intended primarily to cover the purchase of land for unassigned sections and the preparation of project documentation. Together, resources in transport and transport infrastructure policies will increase from 742 million realisations in 2018 to little less than 805 million in the rebalancing of 2019. There is a marked increase in expenditure on agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition. The increase is due to the increased payment of the rural development programme. During the period 2019-2020, the maximum payments will be made as investment projects are also paid out following public calls made in previous years. The increase in expenditure in this area is planned from the EUR 424 million realised in 2018 to EUR 462 million in the balance sheet for 2019. Budget expenditure under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health is also increasing, from the realization of little less than €150 million in 2018 to € 190 million in the balance sheet 2019. The largest part of the budget of this Ministry is devoted to decommissioning of health bills, as funding for doctoral specialisations and medical internships amounting to EUR 60 million has been transferred to the state budget. Additional funds are also provided to improve the liquidity situation of public health institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be a brief review following our assessment of the most important policies that are represented in the balance of the national budget for 2019. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we estimate that the balance of the budget for 2019 is a document that is useful for the effective management of implementation policies and projects, so we will support it and this way will also ensure the necessary political legitimacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u21	Nice hello to you all! At the outset, I must commend the Minister for Finance, who is trying to restructure the loans received, thereby reducing the expenditure on loans interest. But it's just an initial compliment. After all, this budget, which we have before us, would make the Slovenian National Party better, more transparent and, above all, we would not throw money for those things where money does not belong, if we take only migrants who will cash – or their institutions and so on – about EUR 28 million. Disbursement is reflected in various budget items. The President of the Republic of Slovenia will receive almost EUR 360 000 – just for what? To rely on various fences not only in Egypt, but also elsewhere? The General Secretariat of the Government will receive almost €14 million for the implementation of protocol events. Would it not be better, for example, to give out of these 14 million euros at least 4 million euros for the purchase of Slovenia's movable cultural heritage? We don't give it anything. A gallery in Maribor is foreseen for 30,000 euros. For 30,000 euros, there is not a single picture of a modern Slovenian artist. Maybe they'll have that to buy secretaries and bath towels. Shame! Then, if we look at it, we'll buy back an inheritance of about 250 thousand euros. What about What about Are we Slovenians really such a miserable nation that we have no cultural heritage to buy and feed? No, we will spend a little less than €14 million on the implementation of protocol events! I have already said that there will be some EUR 28 million for migrants, which is just bullshit. But of course it's divided by different items, so you can't see where and where. For example, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the care and integration of migrants – a million 184 thousand euros, and so on. And the Ministry of the Interior almost 800 000 on one item, and a million on the other item, and then on various other ministries, and at the Ministry of Health, where migrants have special status, and so on. And that makes a lot of money. Instead of giving it to our people, we will give some migrants who will enhance the Slovenian cultural space that will bring us atomic physics that will bring us the best surgeons in the world who can operate only by shaving, and I will not tell about anything else, but for shaving certain parts of the body, I would say, parts of the body and trimming certain parts of the body. Maybe someone likes it, I don't know. The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia will receive almost EUR 600,000 for statistical surveys. For what? This statistical survey is only registering, which means we have no statistics. The Statistical Office does not indicate either where anyone was born, or nationality, or religious definition, or anything. They say that Europe has demanded this. They're lying here too! This is also where the Government is lying, because Europe has only said what the least must be in this statistical review. And if we look at what we know about Slovenian citizens and about the population in Slovenia, we know nothing. As this information is collected, it is a simple shame. And here we have given gentlemen an additional almost 600 000 euros. They don't need that much. I would pick up what they have, because those data are just gathering from various municipal offices, which can do one computer freak one afternoon, we don't need to know what offices and gatherings. The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Furs – the most hated institution in the country that beats small people and carries large thieves by hand. None of the great thieves who owe tens of millions to Furs have ever been hit in the head. But they got all the little ones who didn't pay about 35 euros, and they blocked their account. They sat on their move, they took their houses, their apartments, their cars, I don't know what they're doing, and they're pounding on their chests, how good they are. And there will be more to beat Slovenia's people even more, more than 8.5 million euros. What kind of country are we? We're worse than Hitler didn't do it. He let people breathe. [[…]] We don't have to breathe in here, we have to breathe in a straw, just enough to survive, while some of the millions, with hundreds of millions that have been stolen, live beautifully, beautiful in the oasis, and also this moment many suns on Mauritius, are lurking on the hind legs, if there's no one else or any other, I don't know. The Ministry of Finance will pay little less than €60 million to pay for the contribution to the European Union budget. Fine. We pay to the left, to the right. What do we get from Europe? Damn it. If we get anything, we don't even know how to use it. But if we know how to make use of it, our bureaucrats are so capable that they can certainly prevent some congregation from picking up something because they will be looking for where the comma is in between, so that they can reject everything together until Europe says, "You have missed your deadline." And then – who's to blame? No one's gonna be guilty, just as it wasn't the one who screwed up and we had to pay $9 million for the candy factory in Ormozh. What happened to him? Nothing. Did anyone pick him up? He didn't get anything. Did he lose his job? He didn't lose his job. Nothing happened. If a farmer goes or goes to get a sandwich and doesn't pay for it then, but in five minutes, he'll fly out of here and he'll be punished, and I'd rather just hang him there in front of parliament. I'm asking you nicely. Is this the budget?Oh, my God! Of course, it is necessary to strike at the scruples there and at the head of the one who criticizes the government. Therefore, the Fiscal Council will not receive any increase in funds, clearly because it criticises the Government. Nothing, that's the one, that's the thumb, and that's the punk on the fingers. The Ministry of Public Administration will receive almost 10 million less to develop broadband networks. We don't have to, because we don't need education in Slovenia! In Slovenia we have to have as many assholes as possible, because you can drag your naked ass around, and they'll be quiet, and they'll look fat, and they'll be happy if you stop dragging them. That's what happens to us. Ministry of Infrastructure for the development of the highway and road network – 3 million EUR 185 000 less. When are we gonna start working the highway against Slovenj Gradz? He's been making promises to Korosci for 20 years. And what do we get out of this? Nothing. Over and over and over again new and new projects where great money is used. We have a 2TKK company for the railway, for the second track, for 27 kilometres of the second track, where they said they had already burned 40 million euros. And what's in it? Nothing. We've got nothing. But it's true that once the price of that track is one billion 400, one year from now it's going to be one billion 800, two years from now it's going to be two billion 200, and eventually it's going to be three billion and a half. None of them will be to blame. The government will go, the other will come and the end will come. Who's gonna pay? All of us. Well, maybe some of you here won't, maybe you won't be paying from this side, but from this side I'm sure we'll be paying. Supreme Court. Yes, and the Supreme Court will get almost 3 million less for court proceedings. I hope that one of those who stole the money will eventually come to the Supreme Court, if not for the other, that the Supreme Judges will at least give it to him for that. Maybe, although I doubt it, because in Slovenia, it seems, those who steal large amounts are not punished. It's those who take one sandwich, and I don't mean our ex-boyfriend, but I mean those people who can't survive. I'm talking about people who are hard to get along with and a place they don't have to survive who can't live with what they get. These people won't get practically anything. Of course, they will get various NGOs working against Slovenia. Those organizations will be richly rewarded. Rich! In any case, they receive a lot of money from abroad from various Soros funds, and even from the Slovenian state through the budget they will get even more. Of course, it's some kind of artist who's gonna breastfeed dogs, maybe camels, what do I know? This can develop into one of such interesting spheres, because it looks like art in Slovenia. The budget balance does not contain measures to reduce the tax burden. Slovenian workers are in a tax box, and this balance does not contain any measures to enable those who are most rechargeable to the state budget to be small craftsmen when 75% of their contribution comes into the state budget. It's not anywhere. Slovenia has also not laid down measures to ensure the long-term stability of the pension system. Here we're flicking the end of the place, that's what used to be when the fuckers were the ones who were flicking old pants, the tailors were the ones who were making new ones. And this budget reminds me of one such nefarious variant. It's going to rain, but in the end, you stay a roach, a beggar, you stay a village special. It seems that some people want Slovenia to remain a group of village specialists in here. Similarly, the proposal for a budget rebalancing does not include sufficient information to assess the compatibility of the gradual reduction of public debt with the criteria for reducing public debt. This has also been found by the European Commission. The European Commission does not agree with this proposed budget. But, I don't know, after all, the opposition also had about 34 proposals, and they were all rejected. For let no man disturb the sleep of all things, once said one. No proposal drawn up by the opposition must therefore be adopted. It is true, however, that there are also voices within the coalition that do not agree with this budget. Of course, these voices, not being silenced, will be silenced so as not to interfere with the sleep of the highest man I've ever mentioned. It's an interesting matter. We've always given Europe no idea who. And we've given Greece 400 million euros, and we'll never see anything of it. And we have given Portugal 160 million euros, and we will not see it in spite of promises. What did Europe give us? When we had our stomachs, we got nothing. When we had those horrible things in Gorenjska, we got nothing. We never got anything. Something about your own stupidity, then your incompetence, and something about the fact that the servant is not being rewarded. The kid's lucky to be a slave. Slovenia also acts as a servant in the European space. Well, now they've woken up a little. Europe says it does not count as wrong. We'll see what happens. We will see what Europe will do. After all, the Slovenian government has been rotting, degeneration and drunken Brussels bureaucracy has been up its ass and doing everything they want and everything they want. What they think we're gonna do. We will now see what Europe will say. Just because we see how Europe is going to hit the nonsense and nonsense of Slovenia, we will support this draft budget or rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group will be presented by Felice Žiž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u23	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Egregio vice presidente della Camera di Stato, Egregi ministers, egregi deputies! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group will be supported by the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Under the influence of favourable economic conditions and the well-being of public finances, the government, in its view, has drawn up a stable and development-oriented proposal for a budget rebalancing. It also provided funds for higher minimum income and minimum wage, higher averages, social transfers, annual allowance and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions and health measures. However, it will be necessary to plan very carefully for next year's budget inflows and outflows, taking into account a number of factors such as the warnings of the Fiscal Council, the European Commission and the rapidly changing world market situation. It will be necessary to develop the economy and crafts as well as to improve the functioning of the health system as a whole, care for social weaknesses, more investment in research and innovation and culture. We also expect more resources in indigenous national communities to operate institutions, organisations, projects and programmes, the necessary investments in education and for the economic base. In the proposal for a budget rebalancing this year, the government has maintained the level of resources from past years, which allows for only survival for indigenous national communities after responsible burden-taking in the event of the last economic crisis. The situation of radio and television programmes of the national communities in the context of RTV Slovenia is of particular concern, which needs to be addressed immediately. The cultural activities of the national communities have not recovered since the big cut in 2012. In our Group of Members, we will support the budget rebalancing for this year. Then we look forward to solving these problems in a timely manner, in cooperation with the preparation of the draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, which will enable indigenous communities to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u25	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! In front of us is the balance of the 2019 budget, which is the most important document for the Republic of Slovenia, but from the budget itself or the budget rebalancing it is clear what policy will be taken by the government of Marjan Šarc. The fact is that Brussels and the European Commission are warning against the 2019 budget rebalancing proposal that we have today on the table. The European Commission notes that the 2019 budget may be inconsistent with European budgetary rules. “The draft budget plan for Slovenia for 2019 presents a risk of non-compliance with European budgetary rules”, the European Commission assessed in its opinion. The European Commission has called on Slovenia to take appropriate action in the context of the national budgetary procedure to ensure that the budget is consistent with the rules. In doing so, they stress in Brussels, and the Commission also announces that the draft budget plan could lead to a significant deviation from the adjustment path towards achieving the country's medium-term objective. Although Slovenia has been in the preventive phase of monitoring public finances since 2016, it fulfils the basic objective of public financial deficits, after which it must not exceed 3 % of gross domestic product. A very negative opinion on the proposal for the rebalancing of the budget for 2019 was also expressed by the Fiscal Council, which gives the following opinion on the rebalancing: The proposal for a national budget rebalancing and the already adopted framework for the preparation of the budget of the sector states indicate an expansion and pro-cyclical fiscal policy in 2019, which, according to the Fiscal Council, is inadequate in the current circumstances. The expected conservation of favourable economic conditions will result in a structural deterioration in the state of public finances, as assessed by the Fiscal Council and also by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we find it worrying that, above all, with economic growth, the accelerated growth in revenue will be accompanied by a largely sustained increase in expenditure, which will not at the same time address the structural challenges of public finances. In January, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia envisages an increase of EUR 1.13 billion from 2018 in the expenditure of the State sector. Such a level of expenditure is considered by the Fiscal Council to be contrary to legislation. The provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act would be respected if the total expenditure of the state sector increased by around €870 million, with the exception of last year's highest expenditure growth after 2009. In recent months, there has been an increase in the risk of a more significant slowdown in economic growth in 2019 than in the forecasts on which the budgetary documents are based. In an uncertain environment, the government should follow the principle of caution in the planning of public finances and also of expenditure. Respect for the precautionary principle of increasing negative risks as assessed by the Fiscal Council means that the envisaged actual use and expenditure would be delayed by a maximum allowable. The budget documents, on the contrary, are still beyond that limit. Once again, the process of preparing budgetary documents does not reflect the requirement for the timing of their adoption and the medium-term planning of fiscal policy. The proposal for a national budget rebalancing was only created a good month after the adoption of the amendments within the framework of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the framework has been recast for only one year, although legislation requires a comprehensive change for the current and the next three years. This is viewed by the Fiscal Council as problematic because measures with public financial implications have been taken in the coming years to form a government. The Fiscal Council expects the government to present credible and comprehensive budgetary plans leading to medium-term sustainable public finances when preparing the Stability Programme of the National Reform Programme in spring 2019. This was an assessment by the European Commission and the Fiscal Council. In addition, it should be pointed out that neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommended the European Commission and the comments and recommendations of the Fiscal Council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that this budget of the rebalancing for 2019 is based mainly on the assumption of unchanged policy, which according to the Slovenian Democratic Party is not adequate to what Slovenia would need at the moment, and this is the need for reforms. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, given the current state of economic growth, these reforms would be urgently needed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that reforms are needed primarily in the area of pensions, health care and long-term care, to which the European Commission also points. Above all, reforms are necessary to ensure social security for people and not to expect European or Brussels bureaucracy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also repeatedly warned that we are adopting the budget because of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not because of Brussels. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that economic growth will gradually decline, as well as the unemployment rate, with the level of inactive older and low-skilled workers still high. It is therefore estimated that structural reforms of the pension system, the health system and the long-term care system are becoming increasingly urgent if Slovenia wants to remain on the path of dynamic and sustainable growth. The ageing population calls for substantial investment to facilitate pressure on health care and long-term care. From the balance sheet of the 2019 budget, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party, from the figures given in the document, we do not see any key issues to ensure the sustainable development of Slovenia, and these are in particular the three reforms. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we very much miss the fact that the government or the Ministry of Finance has not submitted the 2020 budget balance, which is some new practice and force that is unusual. The fact is that this conclusion cannot, in fact, establish the stability of public finances during the medium term. This has already been pointed out by the Fiscal Council, which we have already pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Dear Minister, I look forward to this answer in the discussion below, why the budget balance for 2020 has not been drawn up and when in the National Assembly we can expect that the government will be able to present the budget balance for 2020 and that we will be able to identify what this represents for the medium-term sustainability of public finances as well. It should be pointed out that the budget balance is based on Umar's autumn forecasts. However, the fact is that the budget is adopted by the National Assembly today, probably only a few days before Umar has announced new spring forecasts. The government has decided on some measures that actually increase expenditure permanently, but there are no measures to ensure a sustained increase in revenue. We are therefore assessing in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the state and sustainability of public finances can be destabilised. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that economic growth must also be felt in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that this increase in the wallets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must not be at the expense of the additional burden of the economy or budget. Above all, the balance of the budget shows that the government is steadily increasing its actions through certain measures. If we look at the figures themselves, the fact is that with the 2019 budget, Slovenia will for the first time exceed the budget revenue of more than €10 billion. If I make a number or make a comparison with revenue in 2015, which was about 8.5 billion, we can see that this is about an increase of almost two billion euros. If we make a comparison of where these differences come from, we can see that the biggest increase is from taxes collected; compared to 2015, this increase is about € 1.6 billion. This represents the largest increase in income and profit tax and domestic taxes on goods and services. From this we can see that the main merit for revenue growth in the Slovenian budget is the economy. In this rebalancing, this government has not decided to further burden the economy in some way; but, on the basis of some information, we can expect that the government, through the measures it is preparing for the future, will be additionally burdened by the Slovenian economy after the practice and policy of the previous governments. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that we can mainly thank the Slovenian economy for today's meeting to exceed €10 billion for the first time in Slovenia's history. We have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the excise policy of the previous governments and the current government is not appropriate. The Slovenian Democratic Party is not clear why oil derivatives in neighbouring Austria are significantly cheaper than in Slovenia, why the fuel oil in Austria is cheaper than in Slovenia. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that excise policy is inadequate in the field of oil derivatives, tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, which is also evident from the budget's rebalance, because it is interesting that excise revenues will fall by more than 50 million compared to the planned ones, which is clear that excise money is actually moving into the Austrian budget and into the budget of the neighbouring country of Croatia. This government has repeatedly stressed that the debt of the country is declining. Indeed, the country's debt is declining, but the country's debt is only declining in the gross domestic product structure and the country's debt is declining solely because the gross domestic product is rising due to the economy. However, if we look at the real debt of the country or the net debt of the country, we can see that it does not change or that it can increase on the one hand. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also expects an increase in revenue from European funds. We are here in the Slovenian Democratic Party skeptical that this will indeed happen. The fact is that we have not yet had such a bad use of European funds as was under the government of Mira Cerar and under the current government in the history of Slovenia. The fact is, in this area, one minister has already resigned from the current government. We call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group to make the greatest effort to make this European fund-raising more successful. If we look at expenditure, expenditure will also exceed €10 billion for the first time and are about € half billion higher compared to 2015. The interest payment will still be around €800 million. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask the question to the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, as social transfers to increase social security are increasing by about 110 million compared to 2015. Here we are talking about economic growth, we are talking about reducing unemployment, compared to 2015 we have economic growth, and from the budget balance it is clear that the social security increase rate increases by around €110 million compared to 2015. It is even more worrying if we make a comparison with 2015 on transfers to public institutions. Transfers to public institutions amounted to approximately EUR 1.64 billion in 2016 and, after the current budget's rebalancing, the respected Minister of Finance amounts to around EUR 2.1 billion. This means that transfers to public institutions are increasing by around €500 million compared to 2015. 500 million Euros higher spending on transfers to public institutions! And we have longer waiting types in health care and we have higher services in nursing homes. Here I would really like to ask the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance to explain why the revenue for public institutions has increased by about half a billion euros compared to the 2015 budget. I would like to reiterate once again that this government of Marjana Sarca is building a policy on the assumption of unaltered policy, and, above all, against the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar, when this policy was based primarily on the policy of borrowing and the policy of additional burden on the economy, we will probably be able to bear witness to the principle of division and governance under the government of Marjana Sarca. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, 16 amendments were tabled on the home finance committee, mainly based on the additional development of Slovenia. And in order for this budget to be more developed and targeted, we have proposed a redirection of certain budget lines of 45 billion. All 16 amendments that have been tabled are based mainly on investment in infrastructure, improvement and faster road construction. However, the amendment, which seems particularly important to us, is to increase the funding by 5 additional million in the sub-programme on work, family and social affairs, namely for salaries of employees in homes for the elderly. The fact is that due to certain measures taken by this Government, the prices of services in nursing homes have increased significantly and thus have burdened the end user. Unfortunately, we were at a meeting of the mother's working body that the coalition rejected all the opposition's amendments, which we regret. Today is once again an opportunity to consider which amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party can be adopted. It is sad that the policy pursued by the previous government continues here too, the government of Mira Cerar, when for the first time in the history of Slovenia no opposition has been adopted; and today we can probably expect a similar story. For all the reasons mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposal for the rebalancing of the budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Brane Golubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u27	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, ministers, representatives of ministries, very nice greetings! Development, knowledge, social, safety, health, the environment and stable public finances are the priorities of the List of Marjan Šarc, which we have advocated in negotiations with our partners in shaping the budget balance. In the first place were the people, the needs of all generations. We were looking at the whole forest, not individual trees. Can we get more by different management of public funds on the one hand or by more efficient collection of taxes or taxes on the other? Certainly; but this is the responsibility of each of us. However, the greatest responsibility lies with politicians and, in particular, officials who manage public money. People need to start trusting that our money is being treated economically. However, I cannot pass through various state-owned companies, to which people are also paying certain taxes in the form of tolls, excise duties, various taxes, networks. These companies and their leaders are also part of our country, and they must behave accordingly and deal with the financial resources they receive. They must behave responsibly because these companies are not owned by management personnel, but are owned by the country or by the people who make up this country. We say all too often out loud in this National Assembly what our model of the country is. Our model of state is based on solidarity. We provide solidarity through the payment of taxes and also through voluntary work, which is extremely large in our country. Active generation or employees pay various taxes in different public treasury, four are, and in this way we allow public health, education, pensions, hospital, maternity, lower kindergarten prices, subsidise companies, agriculture, tourism, funds for the development of municipalities, various public services, infrastructure and could also list what we get for our taxes. The best example of our solidarity model is the pension fund. Each employee devotes a certain percentage of his or her salary to a pension fund, and from it retirees receive a pension that they have earned. So we take care of those who, as children, provided us with safe childhood and youth, have made it possible for us to develop. Now it is our duty to take care of the retired generation and, of course, the generation that is coming after us. The active generation will contribute 5.5 billion euros this year through the payment of pension contributions, because this is not enough for all pensions despite full employment – we know that the reason is mainly the low productivity of our economy – and the country will spend another poor billion euros from the budget. In 2019, pensions will be coordinated twice and the annual allowance of pensioners will be € 140 million, which means that each pensioner will receive more than last year. Another solidarity-based cash register is a health treasury. The fact is, health challenges are increasing. But it's not new. Our health system has faced problems almost since its independence. There were too many opportunities at that time, so nothing can be changed overnight. However, despite all the problems we are facing, in Slovenia, according to expenditure on health care per capita, which is on average within the European Union and the OECD, there is much to gain. Our health system is quality, especially because of the self-sacrificing employees in it. The challenge ahead of us is also an ageing society and constantly new treatment methods and new technologies. All together, it requires more public funds, more public funds are conditioned by greater productivity than I have already said. We'll create more, we'll be able to use more for public health. There will be more funds in the health register this year, around 3 billion will be collected from the contributions we are paying for our income, and 200 million euros will be missed by the country. The additional funds we anticipate will be intended to reduce waiting periods, invest in infrastructure, new staff, organise the management of institutions, digitisation and also cover the losses of certain public institutions. The third cash register is a cash register. This is also based on solidarity. The system is designed to determine, on the basis of the calculation, the amount per capita received by each municipality of the same origin. This year, this amount is 573.5 euros per capita, which is 22 euros more than it was last year. Thus, the richer congregations are in solidarity with part of their income to the congregations that would not reach that amount with the collected income. From this title, the municipalities will receive more than €40 million over last year, including an increase in the salaries of public servants. In this way, municipalities will receive €2.23 billion and the rest will benefit from local taxes. The last public treasury is the state budget, with revenue of € 10.35 billion and expenditure of € 10.16 billion. This means that the country will generate a poor EUR 200 million surplus this year. The main revenues consisting of the State budget are VAT, excise duty, income, revenue received from the European Union and profit tax, as well as some other taxes. Let me just focus on some of the main projects within the balance sheet or area. In the field of economy, the aim is to increase the competitiveness of the economy. For the economy, more resources are allocated in this balance for various incentives to domestic companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises. The fact is that Slovenia has to do much more in the coming years to be recognised in the world by its competitiveness, its knowledge, and not by its low-cost labour force. To increase the productivity of our economy, we need to invest significantly more in science, research and development. This has not been the case in recent years. We have done so in this year's rebalancing; for science, research and development, €336 million is allocated. The economy and other subsystems, especially us humans, need modern infrastructure. To this end, we are investing in the development of public infrastructure with the aim of raising economic growth on the one hand and improving the conditions for the population on the other. Our goal is to launch several large public infrastructure projects in the coming years. Let me just say the biggest: in the area of railway infrastructure, the construction of the Koper-Divič railway is starting, but since only this section of the route to Divača will not solve the problem, it will also invest in railway infrastructure to the border with Austria and Hungary. In the field of road infrastructure, work will start on individual sections of the third development axis, at the same time investing in the reconstruction or new construction of certain railways. In the area of renewable resources, the investment in the construction of hydroelectric power plants on Sava will start, the legislation will allow the construction of juice plants, the power plants on Mura in the Marjana Sarca List will not be supported; the environment will invest in drinking water supply, flood management and the like. Of course, the tunnel of Karavanka, which has been built on the Austrian side for six months, should also be mentioned. The problem we face when choosing an operator or dealing with selecting an operator is the old operating patterns, the patterns we want to change over time. What part of the complication in selecting the contractor is certainly the fault of the legislation, but only to a lesser extent. Why? When we compare our and Austrian public procurement legislation, there is no significant difference, as the field of public procurement is one of the most harmonised in the European Union. Therefore, the problem is mainly the competence of the contracting authorities and the selection commissions in charge of the procedure. A serious problem is also leading in these companies, state companies that do not know or want to do such large businesses without complications in Slovenia. It is also the responsibility of companies that apply for public tenders, which often complain without real arguments and never answer for it. European funds are important for our development breakthrough, if not only on paper, but we can also use them. This year's rebalancing is expected to draw on one billion Euros of European funds. For our social development and the preservation of our model, we need knowledge and a healthy society. Therefore, special concern in the rebalancing is also addressed in the area of education and health. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has €1.96 billion or nearly €2 billion for its activities. More resources are available for pre-school education, primary and secondary school, colleges, sports, science, information society and the like. I've already touched the health department. In this place, however, I would like to say that we also have high expectations for Minister Fakin and his team in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarca. His work is closely monitored and expectations are truly high. However, there is always a need for the solidarity society to take care of the most vulnerable groups. The budget provides EUR 1.18 billion for social security. We are aware that there is not much in the social field as it should be; but the ministry is preparing various measures that will lead us to the greatest extent possible to help individuals and families who really need help. In the letter of Marjana Šarca, the ministers are at the side of her efforts. Finally, let me mention the environment. I recently read an article entitled Medicine Saves Human Life, Animal Veterinary and Environmental Protection. With this aim, special attention is given to the environment. It will focus on environmental protection and environmental infrastructure, spatial planning and housing, and water. However, much emphasis will be placed on climate change and the use of climate funds. Today, however, there will be much talk in this Chamber about the Fiscal world and its position. Some economists attach to them, some don't. The fact is, we're going to spend less than we're going to collect with the taxes, and people are going to get at the end of more than they did last year. It is also important for the euro area to have 12 countries, including Germany, opt for an expansion state policy in 2019, as well as Slovenia. Our main concern is that we ensure an adequate relationship between stable public finances on the one hand and concern for citizens, development and the environment on the other. This is our basic objective and we have followed this in the preparation of the budget rebalancing. Dearly respected, the balance of the budget that lies ahead is the result of the coordination of the coalition partners SAB, Desus, SMC, SD and LMŠ, as well as of the out-of-the-way partners of the Left. We all had to take a step back so that we could move forward and draw up a balance between the budget, which is developmental and social; it has a surplus, as the budget will raise more than 200 million euros than it will be spent; it reduces the country's debt; it ensures the medium-term balance of public finances; it lays the foundations for development in the coming years; and, above all, it gives people more for its taxes than it has so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u29	Dear Vice-President, Minister of Finance and the entire government team, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The balance of the 2019 budget, which is ahead of us, is the most important document so far, still a relatively young government. Every budgetary change in practice shows how seriously the government thinks to seize the opportunity to do something good for its fellow citizens and fellow citizens in dangerous margins of economic forecast. Rebalancing is a political issue that is important for people to follow the cold equations and uncertain predictions blindly in budget planning, or to take advantage of manoeuvre and fulfil promises. At least some of what they were deprived of to deal with the crisis that they did not cause should be returned to the people. For a decade now, this Slovenian solution to the crisis and fear of it has been taking place. During these ten years, we have been recording economic growth and making predictions for the sixth consecutive year or even exceeding them. From 2014 onwards, we are growing economically. In recent years, our growth has been among the highest in the European Union. Last year it was 4.7 percentage points. The third consecutive year increases the budget surplus, which was not available until a decade ago. Public debt is decreasing and approaching 60 %. The planned rebalancing revenue is 600 million higher than the plans two years ago when the current budget for this year was adopted. All of this means that recovery has taken longer than the recession. Last year, two years ago, the budget was projected to be half a percentage point of lower growth than it was achieved. In such circumstances, the fear of a possible decline in economic growth should not be the only concern to forget the essence. Budget resources must first and foremost be in the interest of the people who, in the last ten years, have patched up our budget ship. All their denials in the last decade have been based on promises that at least a part of it will be returned to them once it is better. Now is the opportunity to do so. This will also be a kind of recognition that all the denials of the last decade have the sense that we are finally doing better because of all this. What about the criticisms of this proposal? Various species have emerged, all must be taken seriously, but most are also seriously rejected. For those who today resist an increase in expenditure, requiring an even faster reduction in debt, even higher surpluses and even more tightening of the belt, for example, we need to demonstrate in this proposal that the situation of public finances is improving. The previously planned surplus is still increasing. The proposal for a rebalancing adheres to the direction we had to adopt with fiscal rules and at the same time brings more people, so we believe that the proposal for a rebalancing is responsible for public finances. Those who would like to see the current increase in tax revenues fully drained into a reduction in taxes, contributions and the abandonment of solidarity systems should be informed that the last decade and a half has been the best evidence that social security systems need to be cared for and invested; they should not be broken down. The best moderator of the new crisis, with which these same critics are most intimidated, is a country that is capable of acting. We estimate that budget makers have done the right thing to increase the available consumption for virtually all the key policies that we were aware of in the coalition agreement. Investing in people is also necessary in order to create an environment that will have a built-in buffer system for a time of lower growth. Thus, the increased expenditure is seen by the Social Democrats as an investment in greater social security for the people. This rebalancing represents a decision not to exclude economic growth, a strong social state and stable public finances in Slovenia. This rebalancing recognises once again the validity of the sub-fed areas which had to be captivated on the spot for general savings and their potential remained untapped. We are talking about culture, science, education and health, as well as other important areas that increase the quality of life of people, and finally they can add a significant share to the added value of the economy. Raising funds for them is not a waste, it's an investment in a better life for everyone. Would you like to be able to devote more resources to these areas? Certainly, however, we are obliged to take into account the risks and warnings expressed at the time of addressing this budget balance. Media reporting and the review of budgetary changes so far have shown another important aspect of the decision-making on the allocation of budgetary money. It is not only a question of how much has been received by the Ministry; it is also important how effectively these allocations will be used. Will synergies be sought for these funds to return in the form of results; or will only the use of these funds be pursued? This responsibility is assumed by individual ministers and ministers who will have to justify the confidence that additional funds will be used effectively. Here we can highlight the positive example of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which has managed to provide within the allocations a historically high public funding for science. Social Democrats are calling for this proactive approach to be taken by other resources. The same is true of other budgetary users who will have to allocate the appropriations accordingly. As has been shown by the handling of labour bodies, we cannot solve every need with redeployments here in the National Assembly. Responsibility lies also with individual budgetary users. Of course, the implementation of the budget depends also on other planned measures. We are confident that today there will be a number of words aimed at changes in the tax area, as well as an eternal debate on the appropriateness of funding for municipalities, which point out that, despite the agreement reached on the average level, they cannot meet all the needs. I'm sure that's true. It is also true that decisions must be made at all levels. The country's manoeuvre is not large either, and is compressed between high desires and strict fiscal affairs, but this balance proves that a modest margin of manoeuvre can be exploited at the level of state finances. If the municipalities and other budgetary users do so, the objectives can be achieved. We are confident that everyone can act proactively and that other arrangements can be made in this spirit, for example, on a more equitable system of community funding. Today, however, we have a good proposal for a rebalancing, and it is time for these agreements to come true as well. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a budget rebalancing this year because we believe that it is optimally designed under the circumstances. However, we will not give support to the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate on individual parts of the proposal for a rebalancing. As an individual part, it is considered: firstly, the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing; secondly, the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing; and thirdly, the Roadmap for development programmes. First of all, we are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss it? He does. Then we'll drop the application procedure. First he gets the word "Andre Zabret." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u31	Your Honor, thank you for your word. With the National Budget Rebalance Proposal for 2019, which we are adopting today, the government is following its key guidelines: achieving nominal surplus in public finances, reducing debt and ensuring medium-term balance in public finances. At the same time, the government is also pursuing the fundamental objective of stable economic growth, which has been growing for the sixth year in a row. The balance of the budget is stable, developmental and will be friendly to all citizens and citizens. We are reducing public debt, which means we are less indebted and create more. The government also plans for 2019, with a proposal for a rebalancing, to increase faster revenue from expenditure growth and anticipates an excess of €194 million or 0.4% of gross social product. The proposal for a rebalancing does not mean anything, as some may wish to show. All the problems the government has solved and all the agreements concluded are due to inconsistencies in the past. At the time of the government's appearance, we were awaited by the announced public sector statement, with the end of 2019 the austerity measures ceased, the municipalities wanted an increase in averages, and people have not yet received what is theirs after all the years of uninterrupted economic growth. The proposal for a rebalancing therefore takes into account measures concerning averages, annual allowances and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, public sector wage policy arrangements, higher minimum wages, increased defence expenditure, including cybersecurity, and additional investments in health. For Slovenia, the debt rule is a basic guide, and this is what the government has taken into account in designing economic policies. In doing so, it strives to maintain a positive nominal balance of the state sector and, over the medium term, to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. In this respect, an appropriate relationship between ensuring the stability of public finances and the care of citizens and the wider development of the country is ensured. There'll never be enough money for everyone; we'd have it, we'd spend it more. We must be aware that this government or this coalition does not have this privilege so that everyone can only process their own nursery. We need to act as a team and for the good of the people, which ultimately brings good results and satisfaction to all. By approving the proposal for a rebalancing, we will not take anything from anyone, but everyone will gain something. This is about the changes that will have the most citizens, but at the same time we are concerned about the stability of public finances, debt reduction, which also shows that Slovenia is better off than Ireland in reducing debt in the Member States of the European Union. With the proposal for a budget rebalancing, we have thus laid the foundations for the structural reforms ahead of us, and we will coordinate them in a new framework for the preparation of the budget of the 2020-2022 sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Member Jože Lenart has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Your Honor! The balance of the budget is stable and developmental, it addresses all generations and will be friendly to all citizens and citizens. We are reducing public debt and we have a fiscal surplus, which means we are less indebted and create more. Most importantly, with the proposal for a budget rebalancing, we are laying a solid foundation for the structural reforms ahead of us. The rebalancing of the 2019 budget is based on development, and this is essentially what the rebalancing was intended for. The favourable management conditions provide higher revenues and we have dedicated them to development. There can't be any development with spatter. It is important, however, where we spend more money, especially whether we know how to monitor and control development funds, whether they have given the expected effects, or whether we have set measurable targets for how to respond, we know how to respond in a timely manner. We're talking about control in the public system, we're talking about responsibility. We have devoted the highest revenues back to the economy, the environment, health, culture, social, important infrastructure investments. How can some today say that the budget balance is not development-oriented? Only the financial portfolio received less, and this is because it saved by reducing debt and reducing capital costs. Dearly beloved, we are also employees of important development capital, we are an important part of productivity, we are a compulsory part of the added value of €60,000 per employee. By raising the average wage to EUR 2 000 300 gross – this is a 35% increase and this is the second important objective of the economy set at 13. Top of last year – we will ensure higher productivity. Thus, one of the government's first actions is to raise the minimum wage and minimum income for the employee, for the citizen who works. Thus, we have provided ourselves with a basis for investing in the employee's capital. If we monitor the economic response in many public media these days, we can be proud of the prepared balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The economy is satisfied, citizens are optimistic. Some of us, unfortunately, do not think so, read foreign newspapers too much and overlook this positive climate at home. We are by no means beggars, roosters, servants, as we have heard in the National Assembly today, unfortunately that is how some Slovenians and even Members see each other. We are proud Slovenians who are optimistic about looking ahead. Something about the Fiscal Council and the European Commission. I do not understand the populist appeal of the opposition that we are in recession, that the Fiscal Council and the European Commission warn us to ensure that the budget is consistent with the rules that are static, numerical and mathematical calculations. I note, however, that the formulae for calculation are oriented towards the average indicators achieved by all countries in the European Union. We cannot overlook that Slovenia belongs to a group of countries of the European Union where growth is once higher than the average in the European Union. We must not forget that we have public health, public education, this is all the same. While the European Commission has pointed out that we do not fully ensure that the budget complies with the rules. At the same time, they acknowledge that we have greatly improved the nominal public financial situation because public debt is also falling. The message even makes it clear that they are somehow apologizing; yet, in one part, they remain on the alert. I would like to stress that the Fiscal Council has done its job well, in this context of course, and has highlighted all possible risks. It is precisely the chapter of Risk in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia that is essential in order to closely monitor them, to respond to possible derogations in a timely manner and to act. And this is the area that has been neglected, overlooked in the past, not just by us, even in the European Union and the world. The government and the Ministry of Finance have explained that we are pursuing two key objectives, namely achieving budgetary surpluses and reducing public debt, so that Slovenia will balance public finances over the medium term. And a word about taxes and capital. Tax optimisation is already strongly involved in this budget rebalancing. Why? Because the Minister of Finance was looking at it in the long run. As an example: a German entrepreneur in Germany contributes 30% of the profits to the budget. If a German company establishes a company in Slovenia, it now pays 19% of the profits in the Slovenian budget. It is expected to be 22% in the future as proposed. From the salaries of employees in Slovenia in view of the significantly lower salaries compared to Germany, this German entrepreneur in Slovenia contributes significantly less to the health and pension allowance. Thus, in Germany, a German citizen belongs to health care for a good 4 000 euros a year and in Slovenia only 2 000. Of course, we want comparable treatment conditions. Now we understand why we have to build hospitals with self-sustainment in our health care; why do we have to build hospitals with self-sustainment and then we do not have medical equipment, Do you still insist that it is not appropriate to raise the corporate income tax at a 20% rate in 2019 or 22% after two years? Would we prefer to increase the contribution rates on wages even more so that we can have sustainable health care and secure pensions, such as that in the future we will be able to resolve unpleasant demographic trends. Otherwise, let us ask ourselves, Is longer life really a negative demographic trend, or is it a higher quality of life because we invest in intensive health care? If we accept the fact that we will live longer, we will have to spend more on health care, more on pensions, and probably work longer. Of course, also with better conditions in the workplace and the environment, which the employer and the state must provide. Who's the state? Are these not our taxes, our taxes on citizens we pay in the Treasury, that we have provided services and protection in the field of education, health care, pensions in the third development period, for the judiciary, for the security that NGOs operate, and there are many more. This is as much as we want, or as much as we can. For developing countries, higher needs in the budget for better quality of life must be covered by taxes, not by debt. However, it is a fact that higher taxes increase the attention of citizens, where and how they are spent; and so is the case. The conditions for the award of good and less good employees, so we raise the non-taxable 13th salary, set the possibility of payment without income in substantially higher amounts. The 14th salary gives us the opportunity to reward for success. I hope it's not just for banks, insurance companies and the good of standing companies. I hope that this option will also be given to successful workers in health, education, culture, science and, of course, in labour intensive companies. Slovenian workers, daily migrants, so you can go back to work in Slovenia. We've opened the doors to the employers you've been knocking on for so long. We are gradually equating the conditions of remuneration applicable to neighbouring Austria. It is true that migrant workers in the neighbourhood have learned to create higher productivity, which will cover the employer more than once and benefit him with higher labour costs. Our reserves are in the rationalisation of work in the public sector, which is an integral part of this budget. This is, in the long run, smart savings with rational approaches to work. The Minister of Health says that in recent years there has been an increase in the number of jobs in health care by 3 000 700. Where are these employees? I'm sure the doctors don't. These are administrative workers who comply with the new organisational rules, enter, transfer and re-enter data from fragmented information systems that do not provide quality data to management and, in particular, to the Minister for Action. The health teams are additionally burdened by information systems, rather than burdening them and helping them monitor them. Something has been done in this area in other public administrations, but very little. Although we have good practices in these areas, for such or other reasons we do not know or should not transfer them to all environments. Why, we have to ask ourselves. Good health practices were rewarded in the private and economic fields, as health care did not have mechanisms for identifying good practices. If we know how to rationalise the public sector, we will be able to reduce the number of employees and better reward the others. Our reserves are in the fair division of social transfers. Our reserves are in consistently collected taxes. So once again, there is a lot of reserves and we need to make use of them; and these are the tasks of the ministry and the resources. We really can't expect development by sprawling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The text is by the Member of the Commission. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! This time, I'll probably be a little less poetic than my colleagues in front of me, and probably a little less populist. If we ask ourselves what the budget is first. After all, I'm a professor, like our finance minister, in a professor's way. The budget is a social contract expressed in the universal equivalent. From these numbers talking about pennies, if I switch to human language, we need to see where we are and where we're going. The president of the 13th government has slightly snorted and painted the predecessors. The fact is that because of some inadequate past policies, fortunately, we are spending a poor fifth of the budget on the flogging of the pension register, that pensions are such that they are not yet lower and are modest; and especially on the repayment of interest on loans from some past governments in a state that is currently relatively good. If Members and Members were to ask how much economic growth must be in Slovenia, that, as much as we normally swindle if I use human language, I do not know if everyone would know from the mouth how many percent it is. More than 3,3 % but only 3 %. And we need to understand that, from old policies, we need to learn something and have a developmental budget in this sense. There has been a lot of talk about reforms that await us in the next two, three years. I sincerely hope that we will not swim in these waters like we did with a certain, mildly speaking, rather unfortunately, I will not use worse words, the 12th government, when we have listened to almost four years to seek systemic solutions. I don't think we can afford this repetition again. Of course, we all agree in the basic sense, even some percentage member of the Left, that we need an economy in a narrow and broader sense. The public sector is also part of the economy. We should agree to a greater extent that we, too, must be held accountable by politics. After all, we are guardians not only of four, as my colleague said, but in fact of five budgets. As a fifth, I take European cohesion, regional development, because we actually have the most developmental money from that budget. And of course behave in a way that is the basic meaning of the word economy – oikos and logos. That we have an appropriate economy, well, my colleague is from Koroška, I am also fifteen kilometers from the border, we often refer to Austria as an example, we must not afford some tragedy that we have afforded for the past 10 years, something that some serious society must never afford. You can't get any worse in the head. You can't get any worse in crisis years. And we've actually gotten worse in the head and in the mind or if you want to – in science. Luke said something about it. And, of course, we also need to develop basic sciences. At the time of the crisis, we had even people who were “so smart” who said that it was a pure waste of time, what some mathematicians would theoretically do there, but some FDVs; and we need each other in a variety of ways. When I say - invest in science, of course, we have to invest in young people. Young people need to go abroad more, but come back. I now do not see in this budget something that we do not see only in politics, but I am also personally concerned, after all, I am the guardian of five children, five young people, some of them who are under 40 years old, because in this society and in this country we do not have policies for less than 40 years. And that's what you've squandered all the governments of the last 20 years, and I hope to say so and sign. It's something that's waiting for us. When we heard the beginning of this Sharcha government, a certain gentleman, you had the feeling that he himself had dug the Postojna pit, that this Postojna pit had not been there since before. It is also likely that concessional relations should be considered. If we want to go on a serious economy, of course we need healthy, educated, cultural people in a secure environment with appropriate infrastructure. This was clear to the Sumerians, and in the midst of some of our governments, it was not clear because of some political purchases and purchases. In this mandate, I receive a lot of e-mails, why you're not on TV anymore, on committees; I'm properly dealing with the issue of Slovenian public health, which we have, which you've kind of screwed up a little bit. Some of our youngest hospitals are as old as my friend Sarec. The older ones are older than my friend Sarec and me together. I'm ten years older than him. It's not funny, it's been known 20 years to have to deal with it. Yesterday I was not here, I was in Maribor, trying to solve some urgent things, go this way, I now see in this budget something that we will have to talk about this year. We need 700, 800 million to invest in Slovenian public health for the next 6.7 years. 85% of used devices, we also need a specialization in hospitals, because the mayors will resist because you had previous mandates when they wanted to close the maternity ward, and this did not happen. We have some kind of hospital when you get into a shock room, and according to them, there's a one-third probability that you won't come out of it alive; but if you have sepsis, there's one-half. These are things that are essentially to be addressed. To address, of course, what are some priorities. If I am very specific with budgets of over 10 billion, we need to find 10 million to move the pulmonary department from Pohorje to UKC Maribor. If we are smart, we need to find about 2 million more to get that hospital up a little bit and get some gerontological or palliative department there; and we need to be able to put that in two budgets. I didn't break into this budget with the amendment. I could go with my colleague Bojana, along with Lydia on this, but I kind of expect even if there's another balance this year to sort it out. And in the field of health, this is exactly the same as in the case of the ZUJF in its entirety. I've been doing a lot of police work on my previous term. Because they were too good-looking, they were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the shortest and the shortest. We have a very similar situation in health care. The one who makes the losses eventually kind of burns it. Here, too, we must ask ourselves who is suitable or inappropriate for certain positions and when he must go. If we are talking about Slovenian public health, of course there will be a need to raise the contribution rates. We are an ageing society, new medicines are expensive, we are still in for some serious consideration of our health treasury. From two starting systems, ours is more Bismarck, our health department is too contributing, which means it's not robust enough. Some economic crises have too much impact on it. This too will need serious attention. And as I began, I will not be in the first language for too long, especially I feel crucial, crucial, to look for policies for under 40 years. From education, housing policy, in short, to young people – even living with them – I deal with them – to enable them to spread their wings in a way that is undisturbed, curious and co-create the future society and the country; because that is how we will get some pensions that are a little higher than they are now. But when we discuss budgets; well, the opposition likes to fly in locally with some amendments. You know, certain parliaments have budgetary amendments to Parliament. I would tell us that every Member has — not too much, let's say — 150 000 euros for his personal amendment, and then we might have a little thought about whether from the seventh voter's seat together we'll tell him it's Pohorje. Because in a way like the SDS; when I wake up at home and I won't go out of bed, I'll write you 27 blocks in Maribor, which must urgently remove asphalt and do something else. I think it's kind of a little bit. [[…]] I understand well-intentionedness, I understand political tactics and strategies, but I don't know if that's exactly the right approach for anyone who's in opposition who's doing it that way. All my life, 30 years as an assistant, as a student, as a professor of social development policies, when I had no idea that I would be a Member, I have been seriously studying the analyses of institutes for smaller countries, especially quality ones in Iceland, where we need to be aware that smallness can be an advantage. If you've ever been to sea or on a river, it's easier to have a boat, and if you've got a good driver, you've got a course to change, than you've got an aircraft carrier or a convoy. But there is an even greater emphasis on inclusiveness, a feature of small companies, a number of small companies that think of themselves. Then the chairman of the KNOVS writes that one of Slovenia's biggest security threats is 17% of those who may not be What? [[…]] Now I'm the problem with Slovenia because my mother is Croatian? Even some Mr Grimes sometimes brags about his great-grandmother coming from England. Is he also a developmental problem?Oh, my God! It also seems to me that we need some crazy movement in our heads here, especially because we are an aging society. We also need, when we talk about security, some thought about a serious immigration policy that this society, which has a legacy of eraseds, has never taken over. And this will also have to be a budget item in the near future. Listen to the economists, because they all cry that there is no workforce; at the same time, the world ends because of the minimum wage. I seriously said that the Chamber of Commerce should be the first to support such ideas. In short, this rebalancing of the budget is kind of a real shift of nuclears in the right direction, a mini-tax reform, here in Levica we are more critical. If anyone has been most abused in Slovenia for the past few years, they are young engineers and engineers. What is usually said in public is very irresponsible, insulting to them. If I were that frame, I'd have gone out first. I'm a science-mathematic technique, I get to know numbers, they get to. And to say that now we shall burden your wages, and lift you up, and down; for they are not fools. They take a smart phone into their hands and see us spit in their face in 90 seconds. Here I will stop with the first report on the balance; it seems to me that we should also ask ourselves something else and think about it. It'll probably take another year's rebalancing. I've made some announcements about what I'm going to be trying to do, and I'm probably going to be making an amendment. I would be very happy if this could be done in some more responsible way. As currently chairman of one of the most difficult committees, as it is almost four billion euros of interest, if we give another 12% of the money we pay for ourselves to the health department, I will, of course, expect from the executive branch of the Authority, with all the responsibility of us who are primarily dealing with the Health Committee, also a serious consideration of how to cut this, I hope, a Gordic knot, where all those expressing their own interests will have to take into account what is now a percentage of our colleagues, as long as the President of the National Assembly has said that the art of democracy is often the art of self-restraining. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm opening the application. The first one gets the word of Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you. I will agree with the leader of the Marjan Sarca Group and I will be very much discussing the Fiscal Council and the opinion of the Fiscal Council, especially because it seems to me that we are obliged to discuss this if we have an institution set up here in the National Assembly. Something about a fiscal rule first. It's not some kind of entertainment, like some people try to demonize it in the National Assembly. It is only about taking into account some household logic and institutionalising this logic into public finances. Fortunately, most politicians feel that way, even though today it seems like most people think otherwise. However, that is the case in the 2015 debate in the National Assembly, when this implementing law was adopted to enforce the fiscal rule and there were as many as 79 Members “for”, after the first reading, 79 Members for, all the members except the Left. Since it seems important to me to remind you of the debate of the then Finance Minister Dr. Marble, who at this meeting, when this was adopted, said, I quote: "In my opinion, only this law and its enforcement will make it possible for the social state, because those who work against what the rules are written here will find themselves in a situation such as Greece." Perhaps even from the debate today, the elected Member of Matjaž Germany of the SD, who said, quote: “The adoption of the fiscal rule is not based on a desire from Brussels or major problems, but mainly supports because it strengthens the discipline of our country. It is said that we are taking some act, some rule that will protect us from ourselves." Social Democrats have been in power for a long time, so they know for sure how to deal with it, and it is worth listening to. Later we named the composition of the Fiscal Council. At that time, Minister Matthew Vraničar, 21st 3. 2017, at a meeting of the National Assembly, said: “The fiscal world becomes a state body by appointing a chairman.” Remember this to all those who are trying to minimize or relativize the opinion of the Fiscal Council today. Next: "Dear ones, I am convinced that it is in the interest of all of us that our public finances get another guardian – the Fiscal Council." Comrade Jurš of Desus said: “Honored, the appointment of members of the Fiscal Council is an extremely important step for the implementation of the Fiscal Rule Act. By adopting the law, we have sent a message to the world about our country's commitment to fiscal discipline." And Simona Kustec Lipicer from SMC: “Today we clearly confirm three members, who could also be called guardian angels, guardian angels of the use of public finances in this country, i.e. for citizens; and guardian angels who will breathe as a collar to the consumption of any government.” This supposed future carrier of the SMC list for the European Parliament is hailed by unconventional statements, but let us take this dictatorship of the Ombudsman's spending on public finances. And these guardian angels of public finances spending were in their opinion, I think, very explicit. They looked at the budget in detail and found that "expansive policy is pro-cyclical and inadequate". They say that “we are at the height of the economic cycle and that the risk of falling is very high”. Once again to those relativizers: not everyone in general is saying this, says the Fiscal Council, the Ombudsman of Public Finance Consumption, the guardian of public finances spending, which we have appointed here or made possible with a very large majority in the National Assembly. Next, the three main findings of the Fiscal Council are clear to this budget rebalancing, namely that it is a permanent increase in expenditure without the concept of reform. Again, something different, as you say, by government representatives or MPs who defend government policy; without the concept of reforms for balanced finance. Next, the structural deficit indicates a violation of the Fiscal Rule Act: expenditure is determined by law and income is only foreseen, so not necessarily. We have a legal obligation that has increased, but revenue is only foreseen before, as we have already heard, all macroeconomic indicators. The President of the Fiscal Council said that Slovenia had taken a step back in this respect. Also, manoeuvring or absence of a medium-term dimension. We accept the balance before we have Members ahead of us the three-year planning that has been sent to Brussels since 10 April. That is why every debate, as the Minister of Finance said, that we have set the foundations for the structural reforms that lie ahead of us, basically for our Members, because we do not know whether that is true or not, because we do not know the three-year planning, which is also foreseen by the Fiscal Rule Act. The opinion of the Fiscal Council is worrisome. I think we have to admit that. But even more worrying to me is this relativisation, which I am listening to here today by the minister who says, because that is what Germany is doing. Ensure all Slovenians pay the same salary as the Germans, and do the same as Germany. Not three times the wage, but do the same as Germany. The equations aren't just friendly, but if we stick to them, we stick to them everywhere. Others say that some economists say that, but others say that differently. That's not true. That's what the State Institute of the Fiscal Council says. Or a third that it's just some numbers. Those who say it is just some numbers, I suggest you first read and examine the implementing law in detail. You'll find that there's not just numbers in there because it's not an equation, but it's an inequality. Just that much in the extra. It also reminds us of the inadequacy of the budget and the second home of state regulation – the State Council. On the 10 pages, they gave their eyewitnesses. Let me list only some who are more similar to them or belong to them, given that they are also subdivided. The National Council points out that the proposed budget balance shows the continuation of the conceptual approach to the development of Slovenia towards further concentration and centralisation, with a major impact on the disproportionate distribution of public funds on the route of the city-periphery. For example, in many municipalities, it is pointed out that the higher average will not cover even the costs of higher salaries in kindergartens, not only in all public institutions that are bound to municipal budgets. Furthermore, in view of the importance of pre-school and primary education, it is incomprehensible that public spending is increasing by more than a billion euros, of which no funding is available to co-finance the construction of kindergartens and primary schools. There are a few indications that they are not focused on the opposition who allegedly throws pollen under their feet, but on the official institutions that have reviewed this budget in detail; it seems to me that it is more detailed than some Members who are defending the current budget here. When we look at this budget, about 600 million euros in revenue is increasing in the budget. You will find that the main part, more than 50% of these increased revenues, relates to income, i.e. what we pay from wages and value added tax. If you remember correctly, they raised VAT during the crisis. More were taken by taxpayers when they paid for the services, so that they were more in the cash registers because there was a crisis to fill the gap. Now this part contributes further to the surplus in the budget and the government is not prepared to release this VAT back. The same income, remember, at the time of the crisis they froze the revolving scale on the income classes. As a result, each of us was in some way robbed of additional euro coming from harmonising this scale. There's been quite a few build-up in the last ten years. For this reason, too, there is much more to the budget today. And what does politics do? She takes that money and then she distributes it herself because she decides what's right and what's wrong. In fact, it is a socialisation of revenue, but the problem with this socialisation of income is just what was mentioned earlier to centralise. Central, government, Ministry of Finance, coalition knows exactly what's right and what's wrong and what we can and can't finance. Without leaving taxpayers in their pockets to decide what is best for them — for a vacation, for a second skiing trip, for a third sports car, for a fourth education, for a fifth dress or anything else, for a sixth sock. No, the government will take as much as possible and then it will decide what it will give back and what it will not give back. And I also have a problem with this relativization of the supposed intimidation of some crisis that's coming. Anyone who looks at the structure; or the sale of cars, other macroeconomic indicators, conflicts happening in the world, raised their eyebrows over what might happen in the future. And if you structurally increase your spending and not your income, it can turn very quickly and very strongly against you in a time of crisis. The so-called scissors are opened. See, everything is fine today, everything is falling into the budget, the number of employees is increasing; as the number of employees is increasing, more money comes from income, more money from taxes, because more people are spending more. And on the other hand, more people pay in the pension box. And since the number of unemployed on the other hand is decreasing, it is necessary to pay less for social security, even though we are nominally structurally increasing this expenditure. And everything's nice, and it doesn't even seem possible for a man to be anything but nice. Now imagine the moment when something turns around when Germany sneezes, when it gets educated in smaller orders and when the economy gets cold. And let me warn you first of all, the fiscal world has said that the risk of falling is very high to alert you again. Then what happens? Then the number of employees is suddenly declining, income payments are reduced and pension allowance is also reduced, consumption is declining. On three things, he suddenly hits the budget. On the other hand, there is an increase in the number of unemployed who urgently require an increase in social contributions, which are now nominally higher; and an additional exponential increase in the number and spread of scissors; and suddenly you are in one major crisis. And that can happen, and the government knows that this can happen, just doesn't say it. Today she says that others are terrified by this crisis; she says she does not deal with it because when she gets in the car, she does not think about how she will crash, but how she will get somewhere. But then explain to me, Your Honor, why do you have 7 billion buffers in your accounts? Most in history, if I'm not mistaken, 7 billion buffers. When it was the worst crisis, Borut Pahor’s government had 4 billion euros in accounts, 4 billion when it was the biggest crisis. Are you now expecting an even greater crisis that you have put aside 7 billion euros? With these €7 billion, we can pay all the interest or principals we get from the external debt over the next three years. Of course, the government will be in debt, but the 7 billion will remain there. I am interested in 7 billion, given that this is far the most, that it is more than in times of crisis, why it is and what the potential losses are due to it; because of this insurance that we have for the worst of times. Do not say that others are afraid of the crisis, while you put aside 7 billion euros yourself. Now perhaps only a word or two about this political trade, which takes place these days in front of the public, where Levica makes it clear that it requires a special agreement, namely a special super-coalic role, in return for the votes for this budget. Mr Luka Mesec says, quote: “The main motivation for our decision is that the Left is a guarantor who draws the government in a left-hand direction.” This is nothing new, we already know, this was clear at the beginning, with the support of votes. Interestingly, for this coalition is prepared to sign an agreement, as said the leader of the SAB Coalition Group, Maša Kociper, I quote: “We are opposed to the content of this balance by inappropriate conditions, not to say blackmail by the party Levica.” But in the end, you will still sign this agreement in these days to receive the votes of the Left. But here I'm wondering where this is going. And I'll tell you why. In the introduction, I told you about the Fiscal Council, the appointment of the Fiscal Council and the 79 votes in favour, only 5 against it, only the Left was against it. You are now signing an agreement with someone who makes it clear – earlier, the president or coordinator of this party said that he knew what was right, that it was right for movies to invest and it was wrong for cannons to invest. He said, in the next two budgets, we'll sort it out. So someone who has been against the fiscal agreement since the beginning, saying that the sustainability of public finances is something wrong, has now received a guarantee from five coalition parties that this policy can go on. And I only warn because I predict that this opinion, if followed by political application and the next two budgets, that this is the opinion of the Fiscal Council we received this year, was the kindest and most deplorable one that awaits us, if this agreement is then also signed, and if this political trade, that is to say, the budget vote in exchange for the left turn of this government boat, is also put into effect. There's no problem today, it's full of money, we all feel good, money flies into the cash register, it's nice to share it, everyone's happy, it's hard to be against. But the Fiscal Council has warned you, the State Council has warned, the opposition has warned; but it is up to you to decide whether you will really ignore the fiscal world at the first stage and at the same time turn into a policy that will essentially cost taxpayers very dearly. However, you have seen this from the crisis in 2009-2014, in the end, regardless of the budget, always the taxpayers draw the shortest. And if public finances are uncoordinated, that account is ultimately paid by the taxpayer, not by the one who ensures that the boat is turned in that direction or in that direction by a special agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Today, we are discussing the budget rebalancing that we were familiar with at the Committee on Finance's meeting, two points were explicit. Firstly, it is not supported by the Council of State because it notes that the proposal for a budget rebalancing will not relieve the economy. The second, however, was the three risks highlighted by the Fiscal Council. And if we come to these three risks. The first risk of having an increase on the expenditure side, which is permanent and reversible. So it's a structural increase in expenditure. On the other hand, on the income side, we have nothing to say that there are some structural measures. The next risk identified by the Fiscal Council was a structural deficit and there was no medium-term vision or said that the absence of the medium-term dimension felt. At the same time, I would like to recall a statement by the President of the Fiscal Council that said: "The budgets reflect the political preferences of each government." So these governments, too, are said to be. If I stop a little at these risks and the answers of the Minister of Finance, a promise was made to produce a document around 10 April – a programme of stability and some long-term measures. Among them, it may be more quietly mentioned that another vision of the government, 60,000 euros of added value per employee, 2,000 300 euros of average gross earnings per employee and about 50 billion euros of exports. I remember the numbers pretty well, but I've heard those numbers before. These figures are the same that were highlighted at the top of the economy, which was organised last year at Brdo pri Kranj, and the economy also said that it has the same objectives, that is 60,000 euros of added value per employee, 50 billion euros of exports and 2,000 300 euros of average gross earnings per employee. However, it is economical to say that if these figures are to be reached, but have to perform some tasks, this is to move from 40th to 25th in the macro-economic field, it is said for 15 cities; for the efficiency of the business environment from 35th to 30th; for the efficiency of the labour market from 43th to 35th place; for the development of the financial market from 60th to 40th place, there are 20 cities; for the innovation from 28th place to 20th place and for the quality of business management from 40th place to 25th place. Economic estimates are that this can be achieved somewhere in six years. But we know that where there are goals or tasks, there are measures. However, the measures are a little bit more interesting. These measures were given an address: measures for economic excellence. The first measure is to increase the efficiency of the public sector, to change the income scale for net remuneration, to harmonise education and training on the labour market with developmental changes in the labour market, to develop a capital market with all financial instruments, to gain confidence and to change regulation in the creation of an environment for domestic and foreign talent and to strengthen management practices. If we do all of this, then we can hope to achieve these goals in 2025: €60,000 and €50 billion, while €2,000,300. If the government has taken over these economic objectives, it is not wrong, but I hope that these measures will also be implemented because the economy expects these measures, because then we can get to these numbers. I think that the government, in this mandate or as long as it lasts, will have some other points that they are covering, and perhaps no one even hopes to face these points or issues seriously. First of all, it's population ageing. We know that Slovenia is the country where ageing costs are the most increasing. Some economists estimate that the period 2027-2028 will be critical for the pension system, as the population ageing costs will increase. Then there's an export that's still too concentrated. But the hottest topic in the long run is our productivity. And another point is, and this is the efficiency of public expenditure, especially the part that is not legally bound. If we put all these things together, and everything we heard on the Committee on Finance, and the debates, we could hear something from one of the coalition members on the Committee on Finance, and we could say something about this style: Okay, we'll confirm the rebalance, there's no dilemma here. We have more money than we've ever had. Then he said, "But I'm afraid we'll continue to curb our appetites from confirming the balance." Let me also quote a sentence from the publication by Mr Kordiš, which he published on Facebook or where it has already been. His sentence reads: “I do not know why; but it seems that the coalition liberals will sign this and pay the price spent.” If I go back to that reference to the statement made by the President of the Fiscal Council, then we can be concerned about what the political preferences of this government are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The plenary sessions of the National Assembly, where the budgets and budgets are dealt with on a case-by-case basis and the relevant budgetary rules and decisions we take at such meetings, are at least the most important decisions for me in each mandate. So let us anchor our lives in virtually all areas for at least two years in advance; and by adopting the Development Programme Plan a few more years. This time a minority coalition has prepared the first budget document, this is the budget rebalancing for 2019. Due to economic growth and increasing contributions to the state cash rebalancing, it was not so difficult to prepare. Of course, this work was not easy either, but it is easier for individual programs or resources to add than to cut. I am still well aware of the debate on the consideration of budgetary documents in the period 2009-2014 that I am not talking about the debates when adopting an ominous Law on the Balance of Public Finances. At that time, we were fundamentally cut into the budgets of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Infrastructure. The defence expenditure thus started nominal growth only as of 2016. Infrastructural projects on the state road network have not yet fully recovered, as we have mainly implemented projects co-financed by European funds in recent years. The cultural sector will also only partially recover from this year's rebalancing when we devote an additional EUR 30 million to culture. However, ZUJF has intervened in all areas in one way or another, as we have amended several ten different laws with it and cut just in all areas of our lives. It is right that after so many years things are being reestablished into good old rails. Economic growth forecasts are still relatively high. The number of unemployed will soon return to the time before the crisis when we had 63,000 unemployed in 2008. At worst, in 1993 or during the crisis, more than 130 thousand unemployed are strong. It is right for citizens and citizens to feel the time of prosperity in which the state treasury is located. Of course, this time too, we cannot be or not all satisfied with the balance of the budget. I think the biggest loser of this time's budget is the Slovenian Government's Office for Slovenians in exchange and throughout the world, which has increased its budget for the fights of EUR 25 000. At the same time, it should be pointed out that there are around 500 000 Slovenes and Slovenes living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. To say that the care of Slovenians in place and throughout the world, which is also a constitutional category, is not the priority of this government, is at odds with any logic. Of course, the government can easily fix this with a budget reserve. The next loser of this rebalancing is the concern for the cultural heritage of the Slovenian people, which is also a constitutional category. In particular, he would mention at this point extremely low means of maintaining and restoring immovable cultural heritage. If only 19 % of all funding needs can be realised from 185 applications made to the 2019 and 2020 monumental protection project tender, then something is seriously wrong in this area. That is why I see a solution to this year's Act on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, or the so-called Cultural Euro Act, which will provide an additional EUR 122 million for 7 programming packages between 2020 and 2026; and of this, EUR 32 million for cultural heritage. In the area of state road infrastructure, I can commend the Government's efforts to address the third development axis that we urgently need; and I hope it will start building as soon as possible. However, by no means do I give her care for the fourth development axis or for both legs of the ipsilon, it is said that there is a lack of investment in the section from Želenek to Gorenje in the village on the church-mountain leg or section; and from Želen via Idrija to Logatc on the so-called Idrija-logological arm of the fourth development axis; not to mention the appendix through Baska Grapo. At the same time, I would point out the unfulfilled written promise of the Republic of Slovenia Infrastructure Directorate of the Municipality of Idrija to place the reconstruction of the road and the new construction of the cycling track between Idrija and Podrotje at EUR 1.3 million in the 2019 budget. In view of the discussion on the Infrastructure Committee, I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to include this project in the 2019 Development Programme Plan this year. The call to the coalition and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a conclusion. I expect Members and Members to be included in all stages of the process in the preparation of state budgets for 2020 and 2021, but not only in the end, when we have only a vote left; and, of course, we are absolutely indispensable then. As a coalition Member, I will support the rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u43	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Council of Ministers! Before us is the most important document for the Republic of Slovenia in 2019 – a budget rebalance drawn up by the government of Marjan Sarca and the coalition party. I am convinced that today we need to have a thorough debate, because 2019 is for Slovenia and for citizens and citizens mainly depends on this document that we are adopting today. The fact is that the European Commission has made a number of comments on the proposed balance. The European Commission has called for non-compliance with European budgetary rules. The fact is, however, that the Slovenian Fiscal Council has made a number of comments and has even questioned whether this budget balance is in fact consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the fiscal rule. The key question that comes to me here is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance, together with this document, has not yet drawn up a rebalancing of the budget for 2020. I am interested in the reasons for this and when the National Assembly will get the 2020 budget balance to the fore. The fact is that some coalition Members are already talking about some tax reforms, you are talking about some changes, and I personally do not see these reforms from the 2019 budget rebalance. The key point of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is that Slovenia needs reforms that are urgently needed, particularly in the area of pension and health. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, given the past period of economic growth, and the current economic growth, these reforms would be urgently needed and likely to make sense. The fact is that this government likes to boast that Slovenia has record revenues. This is the fact that, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, the revenues of the Slovenian budget will rise to over €10 billion, but I personally believe that this is the main credit for these revenues to the Slovenian economy and employees in the economy. If anyone does not believe this, look at the comparison of the 2015 final budget account and the 2019 budget balance, which shows that in 2019 alone there is more revenue from tax revenue compared to 2015 for EUR 1.6 billion, income and corporate income tax. For me, it's a key piece of information. This means that the economy has worked well over the past period, it has worked well and, above all, it is due to the fact that the revenues are as good as they are. The fact is that, as my predecessor, Dr Logar, mentioned earlier, has a very rich foundation, this government has 7 billion euro buffers. That's a lot of capital. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth must be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But in our opinion, this is unknown; it is only known in one part, especially in the public sector. We are not opposed to this increase in wages, but we are convinced that the increase in wages should be undertaken by this government in a different way, not by a permanent burden on the budget or by an additional burden on the economy, but by a thorough tax reform. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that a thorough tax reform could be made more widely known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia than it is now. Now you have a long-term burden on the budget, which means that the budget expenditure is burdened in the long run; but you have not created any measures or measures that would somehow provide higher revenues in the long run. And what happened to this increase in wages and this action taken by the government of Marjan Sarca and the coalition? You have actually significantly encouraged final services for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Over the last period we have witnessed an increase in payments of services in kindergartens, nursing homes, which certainly does not lead to further development and to higher standards of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And here we are convinced that measures to raise wages, especially the burden of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, should be prepared in a different way, notably through reforms and tax reform. This is not visible here, but the fact is that we have already proposed a series of measures in this direction in the Slovenian Democratic Party during this assembly of parliament, which means reducing the burden of the economy and reducing tax policy. I am convinced that this government has sufficient resources to prepare such a measure. 1.6 billion higher tax revenue than 2015 speaks enough. From these figures, which we can see in the rebalancing of the 2019 budget, the distinguished Secretary of State or perhaps someone from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I am interested in why social transfers are increasing. Social transfers are higher by around €110 million compared to 2015. But we know that unemployment has been reduced here, that we have economic growth. Where does this 110 million euro go? Why is this social thing increasing? I'd like an explanation here. Then one piece of data that actually shocked me when we look at transfers to public institutions. Transfers in public institutions for 2015 amounted to € 1.6 billion. The balance of the budget for 2019 is estimated at €2 billion. This means that we have around 500 million higher incomes in public institutions than we had in 2015. Now I ask the entire ministerial assembly and colleagues whether we have a smaller waiting line in the health sector from this title. We don't. We've got higher ones. Do we have better services in nursing homes? We don't. We have higher prices. Do we have better services in kindergarten? We don't; we only have higher rates. I would like to know, Your Honor, the National Assembly, where did these 500 million euros go in public institutions? Public institutions must serve citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, with better quality of services and even cheaper. And if it is now from the budget, compared to 2015, issued 500 million euros more, I am interested in where this money went. On the other hand, we have assessed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this budget is not development-oriented and that is why we have also tabled 16 amendments on Saturday on the home working body, the Committee on Finance. These 16 amendments are based mainly on better infrastructure, at a lower price of public institutions, lower prices of homes for the elderly; and these 16 amendments provide for a reallocation of around €45 million. The story under the mandate of the Cerara government was repeated when, for the first time in history, no amendment of the opposition was adopted within four years. Not a single amendment of the opposition. On Saturday, the same story was repeated on the Committee on Finance by coalition Members and Members. The story that no amendment by the opposition was supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask why you, for example, rejected the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment, which provides for €5 million in higher income in nursing homes. Why did you reject him? I'm sure with this amendment we could reduce the final service for the users of these homes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is estimated that this government or budget is somehow made up of unchanged policies. We've heard government debt go down many times. Indeed, government debt is declining, but in the structure of gross domestic product. In the gross domestic product structure, however, it is solely due to the successful part of the economy, where the gross domestic product is increasing. But when we look at the whole debt, the net debt, with the numbers, we find that this debt doesn't go down, but that it actually goes up at the moment. And I don't rule out that in 1 year's time, the government debt in the gross number will be higher than today. On the other hand, we can still witness the blackmail of the super-coalist party Levica. Even after various portals, members of the Left also make fun of ministers from this address. They're actually asking you what kind of idiots you are to accept all these demands. Of course, you accept these demands because you know that without them this budget would not go through today. And if the budget of the rebalancing prepared by your government were not confirmed, it automatically means the collapse of the government. And that means you're willing to do a lot of things just to keep yourself in power. You're even willing to humiliate yourself in front of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u44	The Secretary of State has the floor. Sasha Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond to some of those that have been exposed so far. The first thing I've seen is what we get from the European Union, why we pay so much in the European Union. I would like to point out that Slovenia is a net recipient in relation to the European Union. At the annual level, we get from 400 million to billions, depending on how successful we are in implementing projects co-financed by the European Union; while payments to the European Union range from 380 to 440 million annually, Slovenia has been a net payer over the last ten years. We don't have any problems here yet. This year, 495 million payments are planned for the European Union, as a result of Slovenia and other countries taking on more or more of the main cohesion funds in the second half. Since the European budget is designed so that its revenue side depends on its expenditure side, we will have to pay slightly more for all Member States this year and next year; but we will also draw a little more. Mr Pogačnik has already highlighted where the balance for 2020 is in the previous debate. The 2020 balance, if any, will be prepared in 2020. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have laid down in Article 28 of the Public Finance Act on 1 October as the deadline for transmission to the National Assembly of draft budgets for the next two years. And because this government came into office on 13 September and because budget preparation is not an ongoing government business, the past government has been carrying out ongoing business, and budget preparation is not an ongoing business, because the budget is a document that also carries out political decisions. Therefore, the document that the new government could draw up within two weeks would not be prepared properly or would not represent its priorities, so the government has decided because the budget for this year has already been adopted to start implementing this budget and will then prepare a proposal for a rebalancing as soon as possible for this year. This is what we are doing today and tomorrow, and that is why the government will present to you next month and this month it is already starting to prepare a three-year fiscal framework, a medium-term fiscal strategy for 2020, 2021, 2022. By the deadline set in the Public Finance Act, you will also have the draft budgets for 2020 and 2021 on your bench by 1 October this year. The question was raised as to what happens to transfers to public institutions that are so high. Transfers to public institutions are transfers or payments mainly for salaries and to a lesser extent for material costs in public institutions. Between 2012 and 2013, these transfers already amounted to a billion 750. After a salary reform from 2009 to 2011, when the new pay system came in, these transfers amounted to a billion 850 annually, and then the ZUJF managed to somehow shift them to 750 billion, billion 700, billion 650 in 2014-2015. However, since they then gradually reduced wage savings measures, salary growth in 2016 was 5,2 %, in 2017 5,3 %, estimated at 4 % for last year. Simply this transfer, which provides salaries to public servants in indirect users, has increased. This is because when a Member compared the amount in 2015, it was the lowest – a billion 650, and two billion for this purpose are planned for this year. However, I would like to point out that this has nothing to do with public health institutions or waiting periods, since public servants employed in public health establishments receive their salaries from the health treasury, the ZZZS. I also went here to check the figures that this transfer to public institutions was due to one side of this raise in wages that I mentioned; on the other hand, there was an increase in the number of employees by 6,000 during this period. And it also has nothing to do with nursing homes; old-age homes are public establishments where the user pays the main cost that comes from. As a result, medical personnel from the health department are paid in homes for the elderly from the public treasury and, if users do not have enough money, they pay municipal budgets. The issue of excise policy was raised. In general, we say that we are pursuing a number of objectives in the formulation of excise policy. These are so fiscal, then economic, environmental and also competitiveness with neighbouring countries. Since this is a very important budgetary resource, we collect a good billion and a half euros with excise duties on an annual basis. At the Ministry of Finance, we are constantly monitoring the market situation, and we will also continue to pursue and prepare excise measures in the future in such a way that we are optimally satisfied with all the above-mentioned objectives and aspects of excise policy. However, the fact that last May the price of excise duties on motor fuels was reduced and this resulted in a slightly lower income from this heading, plus the important impact on revenue reductions, also has the release of fuel prices on petrol services in the areas of fast roads and motorways. There, then, prices are higher since the release, which, at comparable prices in neighbouring countries, means a reduction in quantities and then, of course, the revenue under this heading. Then it's about warnings from the State Council. The Council of State, although it has indicated 20 points why it does not agree with the Budget Implementation Act or the Rebalance, their main argument is that the municipalities will not be able to do so or that the price increase is only on wages or an increase in labour costs in order to bring them more than the total additional average that they have received. If we look at one such simple calculation: last year the municipalities will receive an average of 573.5 euros per year for their tasks, 558 euros per year. This difference means that when it turns into millions, municipalities will have 45 million more than last year to carry out their statutory tasks this year, and municipalities cover about 9% of the total public sector wage, and the total public sector wage is below 5 billion. Thus, this calculation alone is to know that on average the congregations will receive more, significantly more, than they will have to pay for the costs of work, but it is a fact that in some municipalities, those with many public institutions, there will be too little, but for those who do not, in fact, there will be so much left for them under the title of marriage. However, here I would like to point out that an agreement has been reached with the municipalities that the municipalities have signed this amount of the average and that the Government is its part of the task, it is also said that this second part will be formed with the association of the working group that will review the exact legal tasks performed by the municipalities and what can be optimised here, what can possibly be reduced here, that this part has been done. The first meeting was held at the level of the Minister of Public Administration, associations and competent departments, and we will now begin with this work by individual departments, and we will review these laws. From this point of view, at least globally, I think this agreement is being implemented. With regard to the state of the treasury account, the information is that 7 billion is wrong. This was the situation in January when we were still in debt, but we haven't paid the principal yet. Now, we have paid one bond in February, so the current or first-March state in the treasury account is EUR 5 billion, of which the budget is 3 billion, while the other indirect budgetary users that are included in the single treasury account have the most ZZZS, ZPIZ and the EU, i.e. the European asset sub-account. I would also like to respond to the European Commission and the Fiscal Council's comments on the balance presented. The European Commission, as in fact now a few years in a row when it evaluates our public finances, tells us that they think there is a risk, Risk of Significant Devion, is the real risk of a serious deviation from the rules, but this is all an estimate in advance. We are now at the beginning of 2019 and are discussing how the year 2019 will be implemented. The practice of the last years, since we have been in the preventive arm of the pact, has been said since we came out of the surplus deficit, that we have in fact always underestimated what the balance of public finances will be at the end of the year. Thus, all these risks that have been put to the test have not come true in the end. The fact is, there was an economic cycle on our side. We also have absolute respect for the opinion of the Fiscal Council. In fact, the Fiscal Council charged, as the Minister said in the opening presentation, that the Slovenian public finances achieved this medium-term balance somewhere in 2017 and 2018. But here it really needs to be stressed that in 2017 and 2018 we still had certain restrictive measures in force or, if you want, austerity measures both in the area of wages and in the field of family policy. And that's why we could actually achieve that state of, I say, balanced public finances. From this point of view, 2019 is crucial because this is the first year when we actually have now again on the one hand, to say the full value of all these public services provided or paid by the State. That is why we must now see where we are, how robust our economy or public finances are, or how robust they are. That is why it is now necessary, and it is up to the authorities, to take a look at their own spending reviews according to their financial plans, to ensure the efficient use of public funds and to prepare structural reforms; although structural reforms are not enough to be prepared, they are not enough to be on paper, but a broader social consensus must also be reached on them. In fact, they need to be accepted, not least, if you want, in this very house. However, the path is pressed and should go in this direction in particular in areas where we all know that reforms are necessary. I would still have responded here; the Member asked why social transfers were so high, but I would still like to fix it here. The item or account is called Transfer to individuals and households. This is this transfer, which in these years, yes, has grown considerably, but in this transfer it is not just social transfers. Sociala's just a part of it. There are also family benefits or child allowances, parental benefits, and as mentioned several times today, parental benefits are back to those before the ZUJF level since this year. Thus, as was the case – practically 100% salary, then the children’s allowances, which were limited in the meantime to both 5, 6, 7 and 8th grade children’s allowance, are released and are known so much. Then non-social transfers include unemployment benefits. You know we're paying for unemployment. It is said that this is a compensation that belongs to everyone in a harmful situation when they lose their jobs and, of course, this expenditure is linked to the cycle, because at the time of the economic boom of these recipients there is less, but the amount is not. The scholarships were also essentially part of the austerity measures and the scholarships are now released. And for war veterans, one part depends on this social status. In fact, within these transfers to individuals and households, where I must not forget that in fact public transport subsidies are lunches and lunches, but only one part of these transfers is actually social transfers or transfers to ensure social security. However, it has already been mentioned that the amount of the minimum income until last year was 298, and that it then rose by almost €100 last year – now 392 – and because it is for multi-member households, this item is simply so much higher. I'd like to respond to the amendments. Although the amendments have been less valuable this year than they have been in the past, the fact is that the amendments have taken Furs again if we want to have revenue, then Furs and the Furs employees certainly need it. They were taking MJU, taking the right means to manage centralised real property, says we need it, too, so that one of them could not actually be accepted for this reason, and on the other hand we looked at what Members proposed, and at least in this area of infrastructure projects I can say that there are many ongoing projects on infrastructure. Not all then take place according to the expected dynamics, so that the sections to which Members have pointed out will be monitored in the direction and will be monitored if any other projects are not carried out in accordance with the dynamics, or even if there is a transfer of unused funds from last year, they will also be able to use them for these purposes. It's not quite true that there are no amendments and what you want to tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Mag. Sasha the Badger. The word is Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. I like that in 2019, the largest share of the funds received under the Connecting Europe Facility 2014-2020 amounting to EUR 60 million, which are intended to finance projects for development, transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures. As regards expenditure on goods and services, the biggest changes in the area of economic intentions for current services, in particular for the maintenance of rail and road infrastructure, are. I am of the opinion that we must pay particular attention to the latter. I also like the fact that there are more resources for the implementation of transport policy in the public passenger transport system and the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. Current transfers to municipalities are planned at €38.2 million in the 2019 budget rebalancing proposal. The funds are planned primarily on integrated resources, including for the repair of forest roads in private and state forests. This seems urgent to me because we see that every year many accidents are just where the roads are not properly repaired or only the ground is fortified. More should also be asphalted. We need to be aware that people's safety comes first. Most of the works on forest roads are still carried out in the autumn time, as we know it makes control of the works difficult, as forest roads are immediately on a new cover with a waste sheet. I also do not know why it is necessary to select the cheapest forest road maintenance operator by means of an annual selection, if we know that the latter is bottling a number of complications that are reflected in delays in working with less suitable machinery. You know that saying, a little money, a little music. The programme structure accounts for a maximum of 61.1% and 359.9 million euro of investment expenditure for transport and transport infrastructure, the majority for rail and road transport and infrastructure. I will highlight some of the main objectives of the transport policy: increasing transport safety and security, increasing the volume and quality of public passenger road and rail transport, coordinated operation of the entire transport system. As far as promoting economic development is concerned, investment in public rail infrastructure, quality state road and motorway networks are crucial. The situation in the use of means of transport in Slovenia is very unfavourable in terms of sustainable mobility. Most of the transports are done in a passenger car, and more and more. In particular, I will focus on road transport and infrastructure, because quality road infrastructure is one of the fundamental conditions for coherent regional development, creating the best possible opportunities for an efficient flow of economic activities and indirectly for housing for the appropriate areas of the country. I therefore appeal to you to build the best possible road network and to maintain and upgrade the already built network at the appropriate level. During the period 2016-2019, much will be invested in the rehabilitation of roads on main and regional roads. In 2019, co-financing of the project for the construction of the Karavanka motorway tunnel with CEF funds is planned, as well as the construction of the first and second stages of the state road on the southern part of the 3rd development axis A2 at the New Town until the accession of Malina. We must be aware that the construction of the south leg from Vinica to the New Town and the Ljubljana–Brežje motorway is very important for the economic development of the White Landscape and the Dolenjska region. However, since we have also proposed an amendment, I will add an additional explanation. Regional road R3-677 2202 Pišice–Zgornja Pohanca–Krška is the main link of the village Zdole to the town of Krško and has regional importance as a link between Krški and Brežica. The road has been extremely problematic for many years, it no longer meets normal standards for its category, it is too narrow for normal working traffic, with broken banks, and asphalt coating is completely prolonged. Poor drainage is caused by additional damage and the possession and gliding of the road. On several sections, the road was partially closed and later temporarily repaired as part of the maintenance works. Due to the very poor condition of the restricted regional road, the Municipality of Krško took over part of its financial obligations years ago and provided all the necessary project documentation for the reconstruction of the road and the remaining accompanying infrastructure through the village of Zdole, as well as the connecting road Krško-Zdole. The documentation was commissioned with a view to speeding up the renewal of the said section of the road and thus allowing users to transport normally. After long-term coordination with the Infrastructure Directive of the Republic of Slovenia, the reconstruction of the road was included in the National Budget NRP and implementation was envisaged in several phases. The first phase of the renewal was also successfully completed in 2017 and last summer under an agreement with the DRSI. Notwithstanding the promises made that work on road renewal will continue continuously, no invitation to tender for the contractor of the next phase of reconstruction has yet been published. Moreover, the funds provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the project in question have been reduced. As a result of the agreement on the near reconstruction of the road, the volume of maintenance works was significantly reduced at the said section of the road, and the road is falling even faster, and driving on it is already dangerous because of the too narrow and poorly maintained vehicle. We therefore propose an increase in resources to the NRP 2431/18/0078, a reconstruction of the road Zdole-Krško at a level sufficient for the continuation of the works and the realisation of the promises already made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. The rebalancing should have been ready by autumn, but the momentum has stopped due to the state elections and the appointment of the current government. Right now, we're in a period of conjuncture, if we say so at home, during a period of fat cows. Of course, our approach to addressing this subject can be more relaxed and optimistic than it was years ago when we were in a recession or in a deep economic crisis. According to different estimates and indicators and parameters in Slovenia, as a whole of the European Union, we have reached the peak of economic growth, the economic cycle. Economic growth is estimated to remain high, but is slowing down. This year is expected to be 3.7%, we can expect further growth in exports and increased investments, personal and public consumption. At global level, however, there are more uncertainties or factors that affect our economic growth. Slovenia has been building its economic development since independence on integration and cooperation, integration. Today, European integration weakens brexit and national opposition to common rules and international trade weakens the introduction of customs and the threat of additional restrictions. The European Area has been strengthened by institutions that increase its resilience but are not yet in place. These processes represent the greatest risks. It is these risks and uncertainties that must guide us in the budget's rebalancing, and even more so in the preparation of the budget for the next budget periods. Taking all these circumstances into account and implementing structural reforms can protect us from the rebalancing of public finances. While there is no need to save in a favourable economic situation, we still need to be careful when planning public finances and revenues. I have, in my own debates on the Commissions, the Committee and at Parliament's meeting, pointed out several times to the respect of fiscal rules, structural reforms and the balance of public finances. The projected consumption of total public finances will be higher by 1.13 billion euros this year than it was last year, which goes beyond the allowed framework. Such implementation of fiscal policy represents a missed opportunity to create a manoeuvre during a period when the economic situation may deteriorate. The structural balance is deteriorating in 2019. On the basis of the draft budget plans for 2019, the European Commission has placed us in a group of five countries where there are risks of their budgetary plans being inconsistent with European legislation. Finally, this could constitute an extremely structural requirement for the further consolidation of public finances. In my view, the key problem of the budget balance presented is that the most resources in the budget are intended to strengthen domestic consumption, which, of course, has an impact on higher economic growth. There is, however, a danger, a high risk to consumers. In any event, it is essential to maintain the position of consumers at the expected level and to provide for macroeconomic measures to compensate for tax inflows in the event of a change in consumer mood. On the other hand, we must bear in mind that we are a social state. We have paid the tax for the exit from the recession or the major public financial crisis, either directly or indirectly, with the actions of the ZUJF, almost all of us, so it is also right that we all receive the results of this improvement. The main increase in expenditure is due to higher labour costs in the public sector. The reason is an agreement between the Government and the public sector unions, which has already increased the salaries of all employees by one wage class or 4% with effect from 1 January. During the year, there will be additional increases – some will also have higher salaries for three or four salary classes – and they have released promotions, announced the completion of staff quotas, and the government plans more employment in public administration. A review of the proposal for a rebalancing of treatment on the Commission, the Committee and the response of Finance Minister Andre Bertoncl to the warnings of the Fiscal Council that they would do everything for the well-being of the people, part of the surplus would be allocated to the social categories, part of the pensions, and a large enough part for the bad times, convinced me of the quality and responsiblely prepared draft budget rebalancing. Slovenia must ensure an adequate relationship between the stability of public finances on the one hand and the care of citizens and the wider development of the country on the other. The planned path of fiscal consolidation makes it possible to achieve the medium-term objective and stability of public finances and an appropriate level of economic growth. This is stated by the applicant. He convinced me with this, so I will support the budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u51	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues as well as representatives of the government! I will start here where my colleague ended up not to forget to say in the end that I will also support this proposal for the rebalancing of the budget for 2019. I must say that we had a good position in the Group of Members if we were to look at it, perhaps there would be no need for any debate. But I'm going to say some things more in principle, but I'm going to touch one area that's a little bit closer to us or me. The first thing I have to say – so I said before – at the beginning that I will support this budget rebalancing – is that I have the feeling that we do not have enough words in our budget formulation. After all, we confirm it, we accept it, and they form it more or less in the government, and if we want to come up with a budget that pleases both people and Members, then we should also give more of this opportunity. I must say that in some government, once, once, in Slovenia alone, we had or had some opportunity Members or Members. In the end, I must say that this budget balance is socially and developmentally oriented, in my opinion. In particular, I am kind of glad that he is socially oriented, that this time after many years of crisis, I will tell people again that we can devote more to people after many years of crisis. I'm not going to say we're going to go a long way, a long way, a long way! Especially those who actually have the lowest income. The highest share of expenditure has focused on the following policies – not on numbers – but on policies. This is education and sport, social security, pension protection – which I am particularly pleased with – public debt servicing, defence policy, protection, internal affairs and security. These are policies for which the most funds are actually earmarked. Expenditure on pension protection, representing the transfer of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, is reduced by EUR 264.7 million due to social security contributions. This is said to have paid a substantial number of contributions on the basis of the fact that there were also substantial numbers of people employed. Two years ago, we said that unemployment was high, but this time we are saying that there are no more workers on the labour market. We will spend EUR 785.06 million on debt interest alone this year, which is huge money, but I must point out that in 2014, we paid 1.084 billion to make almost EUR 300 million less this year, and that is where some progress has been made. The highest increase in expenditure in the proposal for a rebalancing compared to the budget is planned in the following policies: on social security; education and sport; payment in the EU - a little earlier mentioned, which is why more is put in the budget of the European Union –; entrepreneurship and competitiveness – also many times the economists say that the country does not have a hearing for them and is very much like to compare itself with the agricultural field and say that more money is essential there. Yes, that's a specific thing, but we can see that the country has no machete relations with the economy in this area as well. Protecting the environment, which is also of course very crucial if we know what is going on in the world with regard to the environment. The pension expenditure accounted for 2.8% and the actual harmonisation was 2.7%, and the reconciliation of pensions, other benefits in February, is said to have already been achieved by our pensioners, and was also valid since January 1st, since 1.5% will be co-ordinated in December, which is the percentage related to the elimination of the injustices that took place during the economic crisis or recession. This means 2.9% per year. The amount of the annual allowance is also taken into account and I must say here that I am particularly pleased that the highest annual allowance is given to pensioners who have the lowest income or pensions. Of course, in this segment, we will also try to make as much movement as possible in the future. If I were to make a grave assessment, it is a pleasure to rebalance the budget, but I would like to point out something. Given that we have signed a coalition agreement, a treaty, an agreement, as it is called, this is not so important at the moment – we know what this is about. It should also take into account what is specifically written in the title of pensions. If we are going to make this happen by the end of this year, then it means that we have made some movement in this area as well. I think that our pensioners in the past have borne the greatest burden of this economic crisis and have been the most lagging behind in growth or there has been no growth in income at all, that is to say pension. This time, when things are going a little better, we need to take care of them in an appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u53	Nice greetings, Vice President, members of the Council of Ministers, although there is no minister, and the co-workers are all present! In the Slovenian National Party, we examined the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We are also familiar with the assessment of the compliance of the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 with the fiscal rules and the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with this assessment of the Fiscal Council. So I'd say, a rebalance or a budget or whatever we call it, it's document number one. We all boast that we have the largest so far, 10 billion and so on, but I must point out that we also have the highest public sector employment, and 170 000 people are employed in the public sector. In the mandate of the previous government, 11 000 have been employed and are still employed today. I wonder what the effects or effects of the employment of these 11,000 people who have been employed in the previous government are. Today I listened first to Mr President of the Government, Mr Sharpe, and I must say that after a few words of his discussion, I began to take a nap. Not that I didn't sleep well, I don't know why, but his debate was universal. I have to warn him that I asked him one question yesterday, or I didn't mean to scare him that it was going to be a collapse or whatever, but I pointed out what I see in the media, what I see on the Internet, what I see in other newspapers, but experts warn that the global economy is still cooling down. It also cools down in Europe; in Germany, in our biggest business partners, even from 1.9 to 1.3, they have reduced the forecast of economic growth for this year – we are talking about the forecast, so that we too are getting this cooling as it will be, and we will see it. They're forecasting 3.7% of economic growth this year. His answers, which were also addressed to me yesterday, when I asked how ready we were for the crisis, I would say that everything is more or less unserious, because today I went through. What did he say to me? He even talked about 23 billion public debt, so apparently he wasn't even on the subject. I was talking about EUR 29,181 billion of public budget debt, and 32 billion is the difference between how much the municipalities owe. That's to explain that no one will think we're talking about some other numbers. But since he was so inconclusive last night with my answers, I'm just gonna give him some joy. It's a waste, but I'm taking it for granted. We're talking Ormozh. However, I would like to commend the visit of the Minister of Finance with my colleague, the Secretary of State, who has spoken to our Group of Members and have also answered a number of questions about the budget. So we've gone to a slightly more serious man of this government. I believe the Minister of Finance is also the most interesting person in every government, because he has scissors and canvas in his hands. I'd say the minister's optimistic. According to some statements, public debt is declining, and the structure of the credits we have in debt must also be commended, in order to reduce the interest on those loans. It is also optimistic about reaching 60% of public debt by 2020, according to GDP. Madam colleague just mentioned what I was interested in earlier – information about how we are like a net payee. By 2019, I have accurate data, we have put 433 million into the European cash register, and we have obtained 793 million. We still have 29% here, we have 71% of the resources, so we should have another 30% of the luft to draw on. However, the largest funds are from the Structural Funds, and 325 million have been acquired. This is how we see some persistence in the European Union in the National Party, even though we have always been opponents of the European Union, but anyway, we are a net payer and we get a little over €400 million more. We've already heard today that this figure will rise to almost 500 million for the payment, and we'll see how much we're going to get, and we'll be able to estimate that for the second year. If I touched the balance a little bit more: € 10.4 billion, €10.2 expenditure, these are already indicators. Who are the ones who will win? This is said, the President of the Government, the General Secretariat of the Government, the President of the State, the General Secretariat of the Government of 13 million, which I see more as wasteful, although I would understand, in 2021 we are chairing the European Union to use such funds, not today. And the government office for migrants – a million 100, these are huge numbers. However, they will lose the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Infrastructure – this should receive significantly more. Today, a country that does not build roads or railway infrastructure and so on, people are moving around the world today, if you don't have it, then you are severely disadvantaged. And the Ministry of Public Administration with 9 million. Mostly this. And the fiscal world got nothing, and the KPK. For the PKK we even agree, we have even made a proposal to abolish it, because 1.7 million euros a year does not have any impact, and it seems to me that money has been thrown away for our concepts. We also mentioned the Slovenian office today, I think that the predecessors mentioned about €25,000 there – only. Yesterday, I was talking about what our problems are in South America, Venezuela, what's going on with the Slovenians. No one even thinks about how to help these people — far from it! The State of Hungary has just brought 300 of its citizens or descendants back and so on. That's how countries take care of their own in the world! Then I thought of the discussions that were in the client's position, and I would only touch the Party of Alenka Bratušek. Ms Maša Kociper said, in her opening remarks, that she was not exactly agreeing to some blackmail of a party there on the left, but, nevertheless, so many times this solution was mentioned before the troika; yet I think it would be better that this troika should come and that order would be done, because in Greece it is known how many public servants it is that the state can function, ours is simply too expensive. And the fact that this is mentioned so much that the customer saved us from the three of us — yes, because they just credited us and owed us. That's right. That saved us, but with credit and debt. That means you don't need any special knowledge here, as far as I can tell. Then, as a member of the Committee on Finance, we had a meeting on Saturday, and there was only one thing I asked, and I already got what I was asking. That's how I'm going to touch Mr Lenart, because he was the one who said I'm going to quote him – I was just asking what macroeconomic indicators the government, the finance ministry, took into account. That's what I heard. That was only the last report of Umar. I thought there were more in the game. The Lord quoted me as saying: "Today we are discussing a stable and development-oriented budget. I didn't say it first. The Minister himself gave the introductions to all these items, which I will now briefly repeat. But when I listen to the debate in front of me – that was me – “I feel as if some have not listened to it or deliberately want to overlook it.” I don't know. As a Member, I have every right to ask what I want to know. No one's gonna give me that right. All I'm saying is, don't let this happen. I listened, I asked, I got the answer. However, if I wanted to miss something or deliberately didn’t know where to take it — I disagree. But then, as I would say, I was rude, and I squeezed a few words into the debate, and I got it back on my nose — you don't know the point! I will quote him, “and maybe sometimes you will be in government when you have to accept difficult things. [[…]] It is not good to be a Member of Parliament.’ I don't know, sir was SD if I didn't force him to go to the government. [[…]] As far as I know, the election was won by another client, but I'm not rooting for her, far from it. After a normal story, what happened first should have happened, but something completely different had happened so that these parties could simply change what they were going to do. And today you're telling me that it's not nice to be a Member or that I don't have the word that I'm too little here, and I don't agree. Although there are no gentlemen today, I am sorry to speak of a man who is not, but nevertheless. These are stories that are simply little, I would say, so the Member has every right to ask and this is my right and I will always look for it. [[…]] It was also interesting to discuss with Mr. Anžet Logar, who said that I would quote him, “I must say that I am very pleased with Mrs. Gregorčič, who pointed out the real dilemma. [[…]] Just because it comes from coalition species suggests some hope of internal democracy within the coalition. She drew attention to the right things, to the real dilemmas and the obvious debate within the coalition was not prepared here or done sufficiently to ensure that the political agenda of the coalition is fully followed.« A very interesting statement by Mr Logar! I thought I'd discuss the fiscal rule, but Mr Logar has presented it so well here today, so we won't repeat ourselves. I would say something else: systemic solutions, health solutions, pension reform, tax reform. We've even got a little bit of an indication of what this tax reform will be like when it's ready. So it's work loads, wages, then capital taxes. That's interesting. This goes all in what was stated by the party Levica – taxation of capital. And even in defense if I touch it. That's where the stories fall on account of it, and I wouldn't be doing the advertising to Levi, far away from it, so there's obviously only going to be butter left over from these cannons and butter, as the Prime Minister of the Government said. Everyone could also agree that the budget balance is a political budget. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support this budget balance, regardless of the fact that the government was composed in September, and we will give it a year of time to take these measures or this story forward. But what will be the results, and we will be able to discuss next year. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u55	First of all, say hello to everyone! I must say that I am pleased to be in such a stable atmosphere here and that everything is going on in principle as expected, seen and heard. The only bright point, except for this sun now, is the Slovenian National Party's Group, which, despite concerns and huge arguments against it, supports the budget's balance, so thank you very much for your confidence. [[advertising in the hall]] That's it. When we talk about the balance, we talk about the facts of the gross, all the romance goes away, and the numbers speak another language, in which the interpretation is possible, although I have also heard some mathematical definitions today that this is not an equation, but an inequality, but both are mathematics, we are using only another tool. It's hard to commend things, it's always easier to criticize, but I'll come back to that a little later. First of all, the argument that the cooling of the economy does not mean a recession far from that. This means that growth is slowing down. And if it falls for a few percentage points or percentage points, it's a sign of attention, but it's not an alarm sign, and it's not far from scaring people even with what we've been scaring them in those five, six months, I don't know how many things that haven't actually happened. And thank God it didn't come! We also constantly listen to mantras about non-cooperation and how many good proposals have been proposed. Yeah, they were good, but they weren't balanced. I stopped counting at a billion and a half. And if your proposals, which came from this side, counted them, were taken into account in the balance sheet, today would not have a surplus of 200 million euros, the expected surplus, but would have 1.3 billion deficits because it would not be possible to balance this. For some things need to be cancelled if you want to have them, we will never be able to have them all. And if we've covered our belt for the last ten years, there are only two scenarios: whether we're sealing it down enough time to break, or we're running out of holes. After ten years, I think the time has also come for us to let it down a little bit, and that from this sealing of the belt or the non-sealing of the belt, people who have contributed most to the patching of the various holes created in the privatisation and the bank holes, but I don't know what else. And yes, now we're going to pour ourselves some pure wine, but this wine will be paid and we'll all pay for it together, and everyone will have some of it. I don't know if it's really so hard to understand that now is the time for these so-called — and I don't like to use that word — ordinary citizens. Everyone deserves a better life, not just those elites that we've watched and that we've been saving in the last ten years or in the thirties, because the first wave of privatisation started in the 1990s. The balance is good, it's not ideal, but it points to some direction that this coalition and this government wants to go to. Far from everyone being satisfied. It would be best to have 100 billion to spend now, and all the problems would disappear. And you wouldn't, believe me, if you didn't have 100 billion, you'd find ways to get one billion to go somewhere else. This balance will not save the world, not Europe, not Slovenia. We just want to live a normal life or start a normal life and deal with more enjoyable things than just survival. Survival is not enough to survive. We'll probably all have enough air if we don't destroy this environment, we'll also have something to put in our mouths, we'll have a roof over our heads, if we're lucky, it'll be our roof if we don't, we're just living in a country where we have to take care of each other, that's solidarity. It is good that we have at least the basics, but this is indeed a fundamental, existentially regulated social transfers and social policy. In order not to have to watch all those elites who have so far been allowed and dismissed, this budget or budget rebalancing is also a good one. But I've heard some things that need to be answered. That it's crucial to take care of under 40 years. Of course it's crucial, but not just for them. Everything has to be taken care of! For children, for those up to 20, even for those from 20 to 40, we forget that one generation lost 10 years of their lives after the war because of their birth anniversary during the most critical period. [[…]] For 10 years there was no work, the one who worked could only work in black, through student travel, through copyright contracts, and these people are missing 10 years of working time. It's not today, but it'll be 30 years from now. And that's going to be a very big problem! This is a huge generation of people that we need to think about today. Not just the pensioners we keep lowering their dose rate. The dose should be raised! And the goal must be as it was before 1990. So at least 80% of pensioners should receive their average wages. They can work, but they can't all work. Someone who's been in production for 40 years won't be able to work. But whoever wants it, of course, let it be possible for him. That's good. But not all pensioners put all generation groups in the same basket. Every generation will have to be taken care of. And as an active population today is concerned that children can learn that we have a health system to receive pensioners – let's leave the height now, height is never right – we will have to take care of everything. In this bitter, sour, hard, immature, rotten, I don't know what kind of apples we're all gonna have to bite. But it's with some new approach. With optimism. Because if we achieve confidence in the people who are looking at us now and rightly expect us to move on to better and rightly expect results, then we will all have to sit down, talk, take the facts of grossness and give up on many. Because there's probably never gonna be enough for everyone. If I take it again, as already said today, household logic — if so far it is a third or if two thirds of people have eaten only potatoes and occasionally cabbages in the past 10 years — now is finally the time for some kind of roast to fall, even in the open season. I wouldn’t look so negative at everything, not at the many expressions that have been heard today: the absence, the lack, the feeling, the feeling. Do we have an argument or don't we? Did someone say, "That's wrong. If you accept this, you will make a catastrophic mistake.” Are you sure you know this – I ask you back. It's the easiest thing to be against. So, on your own; if anything turns out to be true, if you were against it, then you will knock on your chest: I have warned you! This happens in here all the time. But if it doesn't turn out to be real, then it'll be forgotten anyway, and it doesn't make sense. In fact, let us deal with the real problems and not the feelings, feelings, or feelings. Let us do what we can for this country to be better. And for these people, to make life easier, more beautiful and more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Two things I'd like to point out. First, many people in Slovenia, citizens and citizens are accompanied by the work of the National Assembly or its working bodies, accompanied by statements by ministers, secretaries of state, the President of the Government. These statements then compare what policies are adopted in this National Assembly or how their material, financial, health or needs of education, culture are satisfied and so on. Just as they look at us here, or when they visit us in sent - out offices, or when they justifiably stop us on the street, they ask us questions. I'd say two things here. For the first time; when Mr Ivanusz of the Slovenian National Party had previously pointed out that this budget balance would be a political agreement. Of course, the budget is always a political agreement between this – so we usually say in Levica – whether we will increase people's well-being and satisfaction with their rights and income, or whether we will allow in particular things to take place at the expense of lower salaries, lower pensions, lower spending on health care, research and so on, which all then has consequences. I must say that when this budget or the rebalancing is ahead of us, I would like to draw from what Mrs Saša Jazbec, State Secretary at the Finance Ministry, has pointed out; that in previous budgets – we know that for several years now gross social product and economic growth in Slovenia have been growing high. We have external trade surpluses, and these are not created only by directors, managers, engineers and so on. These are created by people in production, in companies. And how much of this do they have, and now the question is being asked. And why they were past the budget, like you used the term nicely, robust. We all understand. They were robust because of low wages, because of low pensions, because of low expenditure on health, strong under needs, for culture, education – but we know that our knowledge is a key issue – that I am not talking about research. Only achievements and innovations in the field of research raise the technological structure of the Slovenian economy and increase our added value and thus, clearly, higher wages, higher prosperity. Hello? This must be supported! In the past, this robust budget has also been created on the basis that private debt debts have changed into public debt. Now the situation with this balance, with this budget, is different; more is money for prosperity. It's real. We have already said that my colleagues from the Left, as well as others, are here to pay, raise minimum wages, raise social transfers, raise additional cash social assistance and on this basis also a protective allowance for the elderly. These are things that are intended for the well-being of the population in our country, and we support that. He raised money, actually, for education, for research, and that's all very well. From the Marjan Šarc list, it was mainly set out to increase the overall budget by 200 million funding for the health system. At the same time, I would like to point out that Members and Members of all parties are reminding us that this system needs to be restored as soon as possible and strengthened financially. This system will no longer stand, but it is the plant life of this Republic of Slovenia. Just as we finance pension and disability insurance, I think that up to billions every year from the integrated budget, we will also have to give substantially higher amounts from the integrated budget for the health system. If not, I don't understand how we're going to replace these delays in the buildings, in the equipment. How are we going to shorten the waiting lines? How will we invest more in the programme that I mentioned yesterday when we had questions from Members of Parliament in the mental health programme? More specialties of doctors we need right now? We need additional money actually for health care, for new medicines, for new technologies, and you want or you don't want to, in this mandate this increase in health resources will have to do, in addition to what is collected from the health insurance contributions to the Health Insurance Institute. If not, this system will fail. That is why we also say in Levica that we represent a programme to abolish supplementary health insurance or to include it in compulsory health care and to prevent further privatisation of public health. Because what we are now saying — what happened in the area of supplementary health insurance? This increased from 28.82 euros last year to 30.12 euros each. That's what happened! That's what I'd like to say. I said earlier that people are monitoring our work, as well as the statements made by ministers, secretaries of state and questions and debates by Members and Members. A few people have called me and asked me – I am from Celje, where the contaminated area of the Celje Valley is similar to Anhovo, such as Mežica, and I could list, when we say, green Slovenia, but we still have very polluted points. They asked me: "Look, Minister Leben, a very determined minister, he said that – for example, for the Municipality of Celje I am speaking – highly polluted playgrounds in kindergartens, where it is found that purely fresh analyses will exceed the warning or limit values of heavy metals in the country on which children play – even in the mouth or in any way. Now that Leben's gone, does this thing change? I said no. As I know him and as I know the workers in this ministry, this thing will go on. And I believe that, as promised by Minister Leben, five playgrounds will be saved in Celje this year, where children play on contaminated land with heavy metals, which is dangerous to their health and life. I believe this will happen. Secondly, I have been warned, people have asked me, I have been asking questions now for six months now to Minister Jerne Pikl, or to officials of the Ministry of Education, when guidance decisions will begin to be implemented, these are individual legal acts that provide children with special needs with the right to be educated in a normal manner. At his hearing six months ago, the Minister replied, and I am in favour of the full implementation of the decision-making process. I don't doubt it, I believe the Minister will do it! Also on the last Education Committee, on my question, Secretary of State Stromajer asked me if the Minister's promise was funded in the budget of the Ministry of Education, and the Secretary replied: Yes. So I answer the voters and voters, the parents of children with special needs, that the Ministry of Education will realize these things. Otherwise, they are entitled to ask us all questions of responsibility or to give us political sanctions, that is to say in elections or otherwise. What I started to say, what I have mentioned around health, I think we will have to actually get from Minister Sam Fakin, who is unfortunately sick lately, more and more questions that really need answers – and there is not much time to act and there is also a need to provide resources for this action – answers to how we will ensure that our public health system remains sustainable and that it will ensure at least this level, if not higher, of public health than it is now for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see that. I suggest you sign up. Thank you very much. The first one gets the word Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Today we have listened to the Prime Minister of the Government, the Prime Minister, who spoke about people hearing about high economic growth every day during this rebalancing, then they must also have some of it. With this, I believe we all agree, but we have to ask ourselves whether this balance really ensures what the Prime Minister is saying. Or because of these favourable macroeconomic circumstances, because of the more expensive inflows to the state treasury, these funds are indeed cost-effective, rationally planned on the one hand, and whether, indeed, because of these favourable circumstances, all people will have more. Above all, those who, in one way or another, need the most support of the country. If we look at this budget and the cut of these funds, we see that this is not the case. At a significantly higher expenditure in 2019 than originally planned, a large part of these funds go into some kind of spending that cannot be diverted, even when the inflows into the budget to the extent that we are witnessing today will no longer be. If ever, the circumstances for reform are favourable in both tax and other areas now and should be accepted as soon as possible, but none of this is in sight. What we heard a day ago about a tax reform is a minor matter, which is not reform, but it is an anti-reform, if it is really implemented as it is proposed, then you better not even deal with it. Because the effects of what is proposed will not be. This country needs major changes both in this area and in many other areas, and one of the first areas is certainly the tax area, the area of decommissioning of those who create, and the direction of resources where this is necessary. The talk was that everyone should have more because of these favorable circumstances. Consider, for example, the pensioners. What do the pensioners have, I ask you, of these favorable circumstances? 2.7% of the reconciliation of pensions, which means up to €600 there, up to €15 on the one hand – and that is the maximum of over 60% of the pensioner receiving such pensions – and, on the other hand, the extortion of homes for older persons, the encouragement of voluntary health insurance for two euros, the irritation of many municipal and other services, which means that this increase was eaten in the first month when it was in the accounts of pensioners. So the pensioners of this favourable situation, forgive me, despite the fact that the super-coalic Levica boasts of what she has done for these layers, have nothing because the measures on the other hand have eliminated this effect. We can look at something similar in raising the minimum wage and in all the other things where we have spoken burdensome with the taxes of this income, rather than raising the benefits, which has led individuals to undergo certain censorships and therefore to be beaten in other areas where they had certain ratings in the payment of kindergartens, in tax classes, etc. Thus, most people have nothing to do with these favorable relationships and with these favorable circumstances. While it is necessary to say that pensioners could also have significantly more. Many countries know the help of pensioners, especially those with lower pensions, some say that this is the thirteenth pension, somewhere, that Christmas is, somewhere, that the heating supplement that we would need is also in our circumstances. Especially because we have a very inadequate policy in the area of paying these costs, which significantly burdens those with the lowest revenues and many are simply not able in the winter months – thank God, this year this is not the case because we have favourable weather conditions, but after one sharp winter as it has been – it is not possible to pay even heating costs and a holiday of EUR 500 for this category of pensioners would be a significant help in paying these costs. To this end, €150 million per year should be allocated. And this money is based on this situation, but you have allocated it for some other needs that are not as urgent as it would have been; you have reduced transfers to the pension fund because there are more inflows than 250 million euros. For EUR 250 million less in the budget taken from pensioners, instead of giving them over this measure or through what you promised and signed in the coalition contract. For you, this is obviously worthless paper, although under this document there are five signatures, or now six signatures before the rebalancing, where you wrote down, “the rate of dosing for 40 years of retirement will gradually be set at least 63%; the implementation of the measure in January 2019”. When we warned you about this last year, we even proposed a law in this direction, you reasoned on how we wanted to devour the budget and bring this country to bankruptcy because we were supposed to achieve what you set yourself and just signed it. And today, I'm listening to my colleague Pavšić at 80%. Where's the other 80%? It's pulsistic! Pensioners should have 80% – we agree! Everybody! When? With this kind of populism, look, you're not gonna convince anyone. If the purpose of these budgetary documents and everything else is a populist approach, then this is bad. Then let's look at another area. What are the benefits of those who do not have normal access to health services? Many die for this every day. They're dying. With the health department as full as it's never been before. Three billion and a half dollars! With such a full treasury, voluntary health insurance increased by two euros each month. A completely wrong policy that runs counter to the interests of people, which means that politics works badly for people. Because there's obviously no money problem in health. Prove it's not a money problem! Last year, 35 million euros were forced to increase to reduce waiting lines through this money, not even 20 million of them were spent, not half of them to reduce waiting lines. No waiting line has been reduced due to these funds. So, even those who are sick and need medical attention have nothing to do with it. Do those in need of medical care have any of these? Those who live, say, at home, through adequate institutional protection could function normally and experience a higher age. So, these people too, I'm sorry, despite the fact that the cash register is full, they have nothing, and at the same time we listen to the minister responsible for health, how he will increase health contributions. I'm supposed to raise them. What for? To reach into the pockets of taxpayers and people. No, in this country, all burdens have to be reduced. And the moment for this to happen is real, but you're not going to do it. You're not going to end your voluntary health insurance either, because you're not fit to eliminate it because you can't do it. You won't. One year from now, we will be able to meet in this national assembly and talk about it. Other things that are simpler and which you have hand-in-hand cemented on 1 January this year, you have not done, and obviously you will not do this year. There was a lot of populism in these debates, a lot of deception, but if we look below the line, of these favourable situations, of which all people should have something that the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sarec said, most have nothing and have only a few. And that's the handful that's the least productive and at least contributes to the added value in that country. What's wrong is the world. This cost, which was determined this year with January 1st, will also burden us in those periods when the years of the dry cows will come. Not to continue what parents have from this, from these favorable circumstances — more expensive kindergartens. Several amendments were proposed on the committee. The total amount of all was approximately €85 million. 0.85% of the budget! If they were all adopted, because the amendments guarantee neutrality, they are covered, nothing would be completely wrong for the budget, but neither was adopted. All those who were proposed, however, went against the people. They went contrary to what Prime Minister Sarec said, that because of these favorable conditions, all people should have some of it. But all these amendments refused. But it is true that the opposition has proposed everything. The real opposition. This is probably why they were rejected. The moment we can do something for people is also favourable in what we call the VAT rate. With the introduction of a third stage for those needs most burdened by people and which have been most irritated in recent years, it is electricity, utilities, heating costs and others. By introducing a third rate of 5%, however, they would really relieve, help many, including those with the lowest income, and on the other hand do not endanger the public treasury and not those companies that are so rich in enormous profits with which they do not know where. So this balance, unfortunately, is not what we'd need in these days. However, it probably presents the problem in the long run for a time when the situation will not be as favourable as it is today. When it is in some way necessary to provide funds at approximately the level of the expenditure side as now cemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before I go to this budget rebalancing, maybe a sentence, two to my predecessor, no. What I miss in this room is a little respect. I would never allow myself to have a debate in your sense: you have done nothing with a small handful, you are not capable, you will not do anything in one year’s time – I, my colleague Chernač would never have allowed it, but to bet you or – because perhaps you are thinking otherwise or you have a different political option. [[…]] However, you will have to admit that we have done something together in these months in the coalition. Of course not everything. Before us, I hope that there will be three more years of office and that we will do a lot more in this country. You have also had the opportunity; but not least with this rhetoric, which your President is specializing, you have come to this: despite your winning the elections, you have no one in this national assembly who would be willing to sit at the table with you to discuss the common priorities of this country. Well, you've got a good program. On many points of content, I fully agree with you. As long as you communicate like that, I don't think you'll have a lot of people to talk to. Now, if I slowly move to this proposed rebalancing of the 2019 budget, which follows the goals that we have set ourselves in the coalition as a programme guide to our joint action, it is also, of course, towards fiscal consolidation and the creation of some budgetary surpluses. If I make it easy. Revenue and expenditure are increasing and the nominal surplus will be around 0.4 GDP. I would say encouraging data, but the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which has already been mentioned several times today, that the proposed rebalancing implies an expansion and pro-cyclical fiscal policy, which the Fiscal Council considers inappropriate in these current circumstances. They point in particular to the first announcement of a decline in economic growth on the one hand and, on the other hand, to a permanent increase in expenditure in all measures taken. It is perfectly logical for me, even for the function of the Fiscal Council, that concern, of course, needs to be welcomed, because according to their conservative assessment of the state of politics, it is also the only possible. Of course, there are two sides to all stories. If we look at this other side, we also need to take into account the opinions or objectives of the coalition or government that have taken action to eliminate certain essential anomalies. Thus, a large part of this surplus is intended for social expenditure and pensions, as well as part for savings. As we like to say, for more difficult times. I would like to remind all of you, my fellow Members, once again on this occasion, of some of the measures we have already taken or will continue to take this year; the adoption of which, of course, is also reflected in this budget rebalancing, namely: the unfreezing of the measures of the ZUJF, the successful completion of negotiations with trade unions, the harmonisation of pensions, the addition, the rise of the minimum wage, the agreement reached with municipalities to increase adequate spending, the provision of a mini-reform of tax legislation or a package of tax optimisations, as called for by Minister Bertonzel, with a view to decommissioning salaries, the suspension of regress fees and the unloading of payments for business performance, the children's allowances, the maternity allowance – not to mention that today several interlocutors have highlighted this to me several times. Taking into account all of the above, as well as the many development projects that are planned for each region and are in this balance and are in the direction of ensuring a predictable, stable business environment, which is one of the main requirements of the economy, respected colleagues and colleagues. In addition, given that the country is also deliberating and is approaching the requirements of the Maastricht agreement with 66%, the target limits are 60%, and that according to data in this area we are one of the more exemplary countries in Europe. Let me add with these facts that most ministries, except the Ministry of Finance, have received additional resources for action and for the envisaged reforms already or to be implemented. For the first time in history, we have devoted a good 200 million more to education or science. The Ministry of Health has received the necessary financial resources to reduce waiting types. Not to mention all the individual ministries. Of course, I am not fully satisfied with this rebalancing, but I am aware that in the many areas that have been addressed by the Government, it is necessary to set priorities according to what you have, of course, with the capabilities. One of the areas where I believe it will be necessary to provide or redistribute funds in the coming years is the Ministry of Labour, the family, in particular in the area of the provision of standards and sufficient capacity for older people's homes, which I have also repeatedly pointed out to the current Minister. The promised written answer — not even today’s minister — that she promised me last month, or I did not get how many of these homes for the elderly do not meet the criteria. It's time, I think, in 2021, but I know, on the fact that they don't spend money for these purposes, that something at home won't do it. Also, the Minister's reply to my question, what if these conditions were not met, replied that this deadline would be extended – I cannot meet this. Life expectancy in Slovenia is increasing. Policies and priorities in this area will, of course, need to be adapted accordingly. To understand what we are talking about, these norms, we are talking about that there must be one- or two-bedroom standard in nursing homes, which, I hope, respected colleagues and colleagues, there is no superstandard in 2019, but something we expect, an appropriate space where our parents or standards can live, of course, which we expect to live in their own age. I agree with my colleague, Black, that the greatest losers, or whatever you want, are pensioners. With everything he has pointed out, I fully agree, in these years we have committed many injustices and the last pension reform has brought about, by creating new generations now, I would say, some poor people when they retire. Yesterday, the President of the Government, Mr Šarec, said on questions sent about the pension system, quote, "that the projection shows that the pension system is still sustainable for a while." And my question is, will these pensions also support pensioners? Let me remind you, we've set up a minimum pension of 500 euros. We've arranged it administratively. There's one set of invalids with lower ones. We know for ourselves that with 500 euros, I don't know how high-quality survival in older years is likely to be difficult to achieve. That is why it will be one of the priorities in this area; whether it will be, I don't know, an early agreement on the transformation of Kad to the demographic fund or any other solution; in short, it must be one of our priorities in the next period. Another sentence or two in the field of road infrastructure. I must say that I am pleased that it is finally moving around the third development axis, and I hope that the beginning of the part of this highway cross will finally come to Koroška. Why did I mention that? In this regard, perhaps just one thought about the planning of this leg after the construction of the link with Posav was envisaged, through the route that would take place from Celje via Laska. You must know that this route is strongly opposed to Laska herself. Here, however, I would like to give some thought to the six-year plan of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which also defines the project of the Trbovlje-Prebold tunnel. This project, this tunnel will be relatively short, 4 kilometers, I think not so much will connect us with access to the highway, while both the municipality of Trbovlje and Hrastnik. In Hrastnik the Ministry is already planning a connection or a new road to Hrastnik-Zidani Bridge. Think about it. I think that this would be a good solution for a new route of this connection, if we already had such opposition in Laško, would be short, I think, even a little cheaper, but would open the way for Zasavci or connect this lower part of Posavje through the Wall Bridge. So much to think about, I know it won't be next year, but still. I have already said once that I am aware that the desire is usually more than the available resources, and that there is also a need to set priorities on this basis, and this has probably been the case with this budget rebalancing. However, because of everything I have already mentioned today, I will also support this proposal for a rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. My friend Prince, I was talking about what you've done specifically for people; what's concrete about people feeling your actions, your functioning. What you mentioned, whether we had a government or not, would have done a state bureaucrat. Otherwise, your mandate has so far been marked mainly by the weekly resignations of ministers and senior state officials and the use of models of large projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter is the next reported debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, good day on my side! I am quite critical of this document, but I will wish him a happy way, but I will point out some points that I believe have some room for improvement, or I would like them to address them seriously and conscientiously in the light of the social map in Slovenia. Basically, and this in Levica through and through, this rebalancing is too much for weapons, too little for culture, science and development; although the good news is still a budget for culture, it has risen by about 30 million. But there remain serious problems in the area of culture. For example, the largest proportion of the budget of the Ministry of Culture is dedicated to the central Slovenian region, which means that geographical distribution always leads to class distribution. And here culture is not a lonely terrain. If we devote more resources to Ljubljana and the surrounding area, we will devote more resources to Ljubljana's culturers and forget about Trubovlje, Murskosoba, Mariborski, Koroška – thank our colleague – Primorski, Lowerska etc. and we aim to see that culturers are divided into those who are doing better because they are being treated better by the State, because this budget rebalancing treats them better, puts higher priorities on the scale, and those who, because of their geographical distance from these privileges, fall away from them, which is, of course, unacceptable in terms of both culture and the social state. Second thing. Second problem. The largest proportion of the budget of the Ministry of Culture is received by public institutions. 60%, we know that in Slovenia the main cultural production is created not only by public institutions, but by NGOs and a very important, loving culture, which is particularly strong in the countryside. We know that it is a rural culture that makes up even the local community. It is not just a culture of a few enthusiasts who come together and go with some music, art, performance – whatever. Pet culture forms a local community, it is a reason to open up questions about infrastructure, about the economy, about tourism, etc. Again, it is either geographical or in this particular case a budget devoted to public institutions for the visa of amateur culture, non-governmental organisations, including the class division between cultures, where on the one hand we have directors of public institutions paying fabulous sums, and on the other hand NGOs who live and try to survive from day to day. The alarming situation in the area of self-employed people in culture I think is one thing that we do not need to stress, but in the entire parliamentary process of the last six months we have been actively discussing the most basic elements of the social state, and this is a hospital, for example, for self-employed people in culture who are not very few. Last but not least, one of the issues that we mentioned several times in Levica in the context of the budget rebalancing is one of the most plastic orients of the situation in Slovenian culture, and this is a Slovenian film. Slovenian film is the most nutritious cultural industry that lives, creates, works, people gather, participate in creative processes for free, more or less. If we look at their creative colleagues in Germany, the budgets for their films, which are essential for production, our filmmakers operate with 10% of the film budgets managed by colleagues in Germany, which is of course unacceptable. But they're still making movies, and they're still creative. Here it is not just a means to produce films that are too small and which, irrespective of the cultural committee's decision to give more to the film, this budget rebalancing ignored or collected some amount of EUR 800,000, although the agreement was 11 million gradually. It's about the survival of cultural workers. Interesting is this practice in cultural shit. We are used to working with wages and talking, okay, how to raise wages, talk about how to raise minimum wages, talk about how to provide fine workers with as much working conditions as possible, but in the Slovenian film, which, once again, is the most plastic example of what is happening in culture, we operate with even worse extremes. There are people on the Slovenian film scene who take credit for being able to drive their film projects, and film projects that they made years ago pay for them today. We're not talking about pay, we're not talking about fees, we're talking about how they already have their capital, if we can call it that, they've invested in doing what they're doing, so they can be culturers. I therefore call on the government coalition to continue working in this direction and to keep the promise, because the agreement and a unanimous decision of the parliamentary committee is not a recommendation, is a decision. When we conclude that the Slovenian film needs not to be given EUR 4.5 million, as it has had an annual budget so far, 11 million, and we do it in agreement with all cultural workers, we mean it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues, all those who look at us! Slovenia is a very beautiful country. To find out that Slovenia is a beautiful country, you must go here and there beyond the borders of Slovenia. It is best or better when I return from Egypt to Slovenia. You know why? Because Slovenia is clean because Slovenia is calm because in Slovenia there is no garbage everywhere because drinking water is flowing in Slovenia. In fact, we live relatively qualityly in Slovenia, of course one little more, one little less. We have peace in Slovenia. In Slovenia we can drive freely, walk freely, in Slovenia we can speak freely what we want. These are qualities for which it would be nice if even in this house every so long they were a little more aware. In the last 25 years, what happened happened. We had captains on board who managed it a little bit better, but we also had captains on board, and even one captain, who managed it a little bit worse or in reverse order, it doesn't matter. But the facts are just what they are. And that's what we have left. In Slovenia we have been talking about the introduction of landscapes for quite some time, in Slovenia we have been talking about decentralisation, but this is something that is still waiting for us. And very nicely now, colleague Siter described the story in culture, and you will not believe where else it is very similar – I am talking about centralisation of money – somewhere else, not scattered all over Slovenia. But the red thread of this rebalancing is actually to fix back what needs to be done and what can be done, and to make sure that our future is relatively good, that people will live relatively well and that we will not experience the same things as they do in France, and elsewhere. It's not an easy job. Not especially when 90% of this balance and budget as such is already legally determined and you have 10% of the room to manoeuvre, but if you're a loser and if you're good, you can draw from the European Union. When public debt falls and we have 200 million surpluses, it must be said that this balance is not as bad as we listen to it. But in given circumstances, it's the best that's possible. Of course, there are still some improvements, but let's just say that what the team with ministers and, of course, with the President of the Government at this point could have been prepared for such and different reasons. I believe they haven't slept in these days or in these weeks, at least not the minister financially. But I also believe that things can be set up in a way that hides with a blanket as long as it's long. You can't do this anymore, and sometimes your fingers just look out. It's just a fact. If we like it, yes or no, we can debate it. The result of this rebalancing is – and I will not repeat everything because it has already been said so much – I will try to be very short – more for science, more for education, because we are promoting competitiveness and creating added value to this country. More for a culture that was very well fed. You will not believe it, public institutions, which are, of course, 100% owned by this country, also received 90% for wages during the time of the ZUJF. Members of the previous term didn't get 90% for salaries, but you got a 100 percent salary. Cultural public institutions, specifically the Slovenian National Theatre Maribor, received 90%. Thus we have much work to do in the cultural field, and here I very much agree with my colleague Siter. Thirdly, more for investments, even in municipalities more for averages in municipalities. Fourthly, more to encourage various companies, including small ones. More for the promotion of Slovenia, more for the pensioners, more for the pensioners. And now you're going to say again, yes, the 15 euros. But I'm sorry, my mom's 15 euros means something. Just get yourself something more than you used to. I wouldn't throw these 15 and 30 Euros that retirees get, so, with my left hand, that's just a little something. Every euro comes very well for a man. All of this is done by this country, which I have already said is very beautiful and very kind to us and we must be very, very, very aware of it. Now, because it is right and fair to say that this rebalancing will be divided among all things, to say, regions or all parts of our Slovenia, it is also necessary to say what comes from the same rebalancing of Maribor or the environment from which I come. I am very proud of this, and I will be very happy to press the button for this rebalancing today. I will list some small, not all: Streliška ulica; the western bypass will finally begin after several years; the undercarriage of Ledina – the one driving something in Maribor, you know what I'm talking about –; the railway track Maribor – Šentilj; the end will be Ljubljana – you know that we have half of Maribor closed at the moment, but we have to drive around very much –; the Koroška road will be arranged; the cycling paths, everything from Koroška dol, all the way down from Drava Valley to Croatia, and where else will they be done; the UKC, the so-called University Clinical Centre in Maribor, will get some issues: magnetic resonance, CT, chronograph, fire safety will be regulated; the energy rehabilitation of schools will take place, the Human University will get more money to educate people who for some reason will fall out of the school curriculum, the chronograph, the fire safety will happen; the energy rehabilitation of schools will take place, the city will take place, the city will take place, and the city will become a tourist and the city will receive more money. [[…]] Each of the things that we think could be better – yes, of course, it could always be better, we could always get more money on any item, but we need to be rational and just know that as long as it is in the case, we can share so much. But all the rest are pious desires. Therefore, to conclude: otherwise, the items on infrastructure, on education, on culture at the moment would also be increased if it could. But unfortunately we can't. The fiscal world was the one that each day — at least three articles a day we read about how badly we run this country — warned us that it was probably different. But at this time, because I was still relatively new in this house here, I had the feeling that it was a political body, that it wasn't an expert body that was supposed to draw attention to things that were actually there. But let's leave it to it. Rebalance is the best possible under the circumstances. Rebalance is something that will bring us all a lot of benefits, a rebalance is something that will help us to improve our knowledge in the given circumstances, to improve our culture, to realize that drinking water flows out of our pipe. And the balance is something that needs to be confirmed. I'll do it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you so much for the word. Let me remind you that we are talking about the rebalancing of the 2019 budget, for which the European Commission has assessed that there is a risk of non-compliance with European budgetary rules. But of course, the government of Marjana Sharca doesn't worry. The Fiscal Council's opinion that the financial situation will deteriorate structurally, but these governments have also warned the Fiscal Council that they are no longer worried. On the other hand, when we monitor the media and all these public surveys, we can see that the government has record support. What they usually do around the world at a time when the government has the highest support — they also accept the most concrete structural changes, reforms or whatever you call them. Of course, we would also expect this to be somehow reflected in this 2019 budget rebalancing. But unfortunately, I have to say that no particular change in here is detectable, which, of course, I am concerned about in some way. On the other hand, as has been said, these major changes are made when the government has good support, and as a rule this is at the beginning of the mandate. So the key thing you're going to do is you should do it either this year, the second year you're going to have some time, and then most likely nothing will be done later. But given that the budget is very unambitious – but it is not as developmental as some of you say here – I fear none of this will be done in this mandate as well. Regrettably, what specific health prospects can there be? All we can monitor is that waiting species extend. And let's leave those statistics and data -- which are somehow also misleading, and they're being put into various analyses of data that are unrealistic. When we ask people, we know that they wait much longer than they did in the past. Nothing will be done in this area more than likely. Area of long-term care. There's talk of it. We haven't gotten anything concrete on this yet. Discharge of the economy. I think we can promise each other the other way. More than likely, the economy will receive quite a few new taxes. Retired reform. I don't know, maybe we can promise ourselves some cosmetic adjustments, but when I look at your coalition contract, you have it written down on page 9, “A rate of 40 years of retirement of at least 63%, the implementation of the January 2019 measure”. I think January 2019 is already behind us and there is no change. I find it quite incorrect when a colleague from LMSH is talking about this percentage being 80%. We agree, but I don't know why you didn't do at least until January 2019 what you wrote yourself into your coalition to be at least 63%. Glorify how the congregations will receive more. Indeed, on 7 November you signed an agreement, everyone happy, Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Finance, the average rises to €573, but of course the mayors did not know what measures follow. A minimum wage has been raised, an agreement has been signed with the public sector payroll unions and, of course, the government has not provided this funding. As a result, all public institutions started raising prices. We're talking about rising prices in kindergartens, talking about rising prices in nursing homes. And when you say on one side it's more for the pensioners. True, but unfortunately, even caregivers are more expensive, and those who have enough in nursing homes will have to pay more for homes, and those who do not, of course, will have to do so by their relatives, if that is not possible, but, of course, at the end of the congregation. It's very similar to kindergarten. The burden of actually raising wages in the public sector has been passed on to young families; again to those socially weaker, threatened – all that you like to expose. And, of course, in large part also the congregations, especially in the areas of those congregations that are already under the average. In 2019, of course, we are still expecting some solid economic growth, which of course is fine. Somehow I think we are all aware that the engine of our economic growth has, for years now, been our exporters, our economists, who have also responded very quickly in times of crisis, adapted, changed the business system and, of course, floated away, in a way, unlike the public sector, which has operated in a very different way. They are to the greatest extent the generator of our economic growth. And if they are exporters, we also know that we are highly dependent on our biggest economic partners. Our biggest is Germany. We know that economic growth in Germany is no longer as high as it has been in recent years, which, of course, means that it will also fall with us, that we can no longer have so much hope at the expense of our economy or our exporters. Unfortunately, even at a time of very high economic growth, Slovenia has not reduced the economic backlog for other countries, unfortunately no, we are still significantly behind other countries, as we say, in the year before the crisis in 2008. We're still significantly lagging behind. All the countries, many countries, have outrun us in many ways, so we did not know how to take advantage of the potential we have. Now, if we look at a little number in the budget itself, we can say that we have extremely high revenue, more than €10 billion, which is, I would say, very nice, but on the other hand, we also have extremely high expenditure, which is also worth more than €10 billion. What if I stop at incomes first? Around €10.3 billion is planned revenue, that is to say 600 million more than in the 2019 budget. The largest increases are in income items of 185 million, corporate income taxes of 42 million and value added tax of 189 million euros. What I'm really worried about, and I'm afraid that the data here are not the most realistic, is that more than 1 billion euros are expected to come into the European budget. More than €1 billion in 2019. Really, Madam Secretary of State, I wonder if these are real numbers, how did you get that amount? In fact, we all know, and we have already discussed this in the National Assembly, that drawing on European funds is extremely bad in this part when we have to get our money back from the European budget. After us, however, there are 5 years of financial perspective, 2014-2020, and we have, that is to say, recovered from the EU budget for about 500 million. This was until the end of 2018, unfortunately I do not know the latest data; this amounts to around 16%. This means that in 5 years we have succeeded by half a billion, and now in this year, in 2019, you have written in the budget to be as much as 1 billion! I'm sorry, but I'm afraid this number is essentially overblown and completely unrealistic. When we look at the expenditure, it is estimated that there will be €10.16 billion and around €460 million more than originally planned; for interest we will spend €785 million, slightly less than we have in previous years, but still a very large amount, which, of course, says that as a country, we are extremely indebted. What we can imagine is what we could do with this money, how we could raise pensions, what infrastructure could be built in Slovenia, how we could reduce the differences in development between individual regions and so on. The remaining higher expenditure is, of course, the largest current transfers, which amount to EUR 5.4 billion, of which there is a maximum of EUR 1.3 billion, for transfers to individuals and households. This is where exactly transfers for social assistance – for 116 million euros – are raised, and on the one hand, of course, we hear a lot of praise about how unemployment is being reduced, how the situation in the country is excellent. While we know that social assistance has risen slightly, however, how is it possible that we still have so many recipients of social assistance, if the situation in the country is so great that we have to spend so much more for that purpose. On the other hand, when we hear from companies that they no longer have staff, many congregations have various public invitations, search for people through public works, and do not receive them at all. Whatever it is, people come, they ask, sign me here. You know, I get social support, and my mom gets that -- and people obviously live with the one who's totally solid and they don't want to work. That is why I also wonder here whether we have real social and if we have a truly fair budget. Some 1 billion euros are earmarked for investments. If we look at it, that's about 10% of the budget, and if you're saying that it's so very developmental, then I think that, for this purpose, for investment, we should devote significantly more. However, we do have a budget surplus, which is encouraging, but given the extremely high revenues, this surplus should, of course, be significantly higher or these funds should be spent more on investments which, of course, would then generate on the other hand some development of the country as a whole. I must, of course, express, like my predecessors, the great disappointment that somehow this government is following the previous government's manners and that everything proposed by the opposition is no longer right and all the amendments proposed by the opposition have been rejected by the home committee. We have heard that this is a total of EUR 85 million, probably a lot of amendments make sense, and at least I hope that someone here in this National Assembly may support himself if he is not already at the National Finance Committee. Maybe one more thing. However, Slovenia deviates from the average of other OECD countries in the burden of work. We have an average work taxed by more than 42%, the average OECD countries are 36%. Here, in particular, they give up — not so much income, although they do — social security contributions in certain classes. Nothing has been said that anything in this area would have been done, but here we are really moving in a negative direction. A coherent regional development, we have talked about this a lot, but unfortunately I cannot be satisfied with the situation we have in the country. We were able to hear what will be done for Maribor and for Ljubljana. There are always funds, one way or another; for what would actually be necessary to be said, there is consistent regional development in Slovenia, which is unfortunately not. We have a number of areas across Slovenia, which are under-averagely developed, we have very large differences in the development of individual regions, if we look at Ljubljana and the environment – somewhere on 116% of the European average, and on the other hand we have regions that do not reach 60%. Of course, that's unacceptable. And if so, European funds should primarily be allocated to those areas that are under-averagely developed. But unfortunately, we can't even promise that this year, so I'm really worried. We are witnessing an increasing centralisation in all areas, all those who do not have an apartment here in Ljubljana, and you are driving to work, you probably know what it means. I don't know. The Stairway is getting worse every day. [[…]] This would not be the case if Slovenia were not so centralised if we had the provinces – it is also in the coalition treaties. Unfortunately, I don't know if anything is going to be done, probably not this year, but then you are already going to the other half, and somehow things are moving away from it, even though this is absolutely necessary, and this would also be a very good shift in the right direction, so that we can improve the use of European funds. Last but not least; in order to be able to talk about coherent regional development, because the regions themselves would determine what they would spend certain money and certain funds for. One such area is also where I come from, this is the Haloz area and part of the Drava field. Unfortunately, I cannot thank you for just listing the projects for which the money will be allocated. Something small goes into these ends, but anyway, they're border areas. I would like to know what the programme for border areas is in 2019, how much specific resources will be allocated. Of course, I want to be able to follow the example of any other country – neighbouring Croatia is investing significantly more money in border areas, giving people the opportunity to apply for calls to rehabilitate their houses, homes to stay in these areas, to stay there, to live there. I'm sorry, it's the other way around. And then it's said, because there's not that much unemployment in Haloza. Yeah, she really isn't. People have just, almost, been able to say, long ago, moved out of this area, because it is very difficult to live in certain of these hilly areas, although it is extremely beautiful, even very difficult. Farmers are small, 4.2-hectar on average and many times on tenders that are today because they do not come together because it is a condition that they must be at least 6 hectares. We have made some small changes, but I think that this is still essential enough and that is why we are also making amendments every year to give particular funding to this area. If they are found for Maribor, if they are found somewhere else, it would be right to be found for Halose. This time, too, I have made an amendment of €5 million because I wish there was some kind of programme. Last but not least, in 2015, if I am not mistaken, a government working group was set up to somehow find a solution to launch the right measures to develop this area too, but when I go to the field, whatever, except for some very rare exceptions, I do not see any progress. It is precisely because of this, however, if there are no additional incentives for people to actually start to invest, that they will not least see the prospect of staying in this area, then life will remain as difficult there as it has been so far. The balance of the budget, once again, substantially under-investments, does not include those concrete reforms that would be needed for the development of Slovenia, and what I am really worried about does not suggest a burden on the economy, on the contrary, prior to additional taxation. I hope you're all really aware here that the economy is our backbone. And if we don't have a well-functioning economy, we won't have money for all the other services we provide to citizens. For us who are from around Ptuj, today is a holiday, fascism is for a lot of work a day off. However, I may wonder if it is not an accident, but it is on purpose that today's budget is being dealt with here in the National Assembly, because there is probably a lot of disguise in these numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims has the next word, Mr Pavšič's earlier replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. I still have one explanation to make. When I spoke about the percentage of the pensioners, it was my opinion that it should be at least 80%, but I did not mention what our goal is. I said, however, that measures already covered in this balance already cover measures that at least slightly improve the situation of pensioners. It's about double coordination and it's about regression. But I don't know how you can expect reforms within five and a half months of the government's oath. I mean, that's not real. Now we have witnessed a lot of reforms in 30 years in this country, even in the pension area, and we had the first, second, third pillar, and Zujf came and lost everything again. So, you can break something with your hands, and with that part of your body where your back loses a decent name, you're gonna tear it all down. And that's not right. Reference also to data that is not real, which are fictional – I think, but these are serious accusations. But I can't accept this, even in the field of health, as far as waiting times are concerned. I mean, that's a little selective reading. It seems that all you've studied well was our coalition agreement because you quote it every time. That's where the targets are. And as long as I sit here, I will also fight to see these goals fulfilled. And when you talked about laying responsibility on the congregations, yesterday the Prime Minister told you, by about 2%, there was an increase in prices. But what was the price increase? For the higher wages of teachers, assistant educators, educators, cooks in these public institutions, janitors! Not everything is as black as it seems, but not everything is as bright, and we admit it. It's a good way and it shows the direction we want to take forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you. Now he's got the word "magic." Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The old rule says that if we don't learn anything from history, history likes to repeat itself, for the first time as a tragedy and for the second time as a farce. These discussions of the coalition today, including what we have just witnessed, from the MP of LMŠ, remind me of the atmosphere that took place when the Pahor Rebalance was adopted, after Mr Borut Pahor took over the leadership of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia almost a decade ago. And what happened? There's been an increase in consumption. And then the scissors opened up, and they never closed again. For 800 million, consumption rose. And so, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to learn from history. However, the budget is an extremely important act to be considered in order to take account of all that is accompanying its creation, its design, which is the basis for the revenue and expenditure sides, including, of course, or if you want to be at the forefront of tax policy and tax policy forecasts, because this obviously affects the decisions of investors, entrepreneurs and thus the development future of each country. In this case, of course, Slovenia. From this point of view, this atmosphere today is rather strange. With some sense of humor, Marjan Šarec presented the appropriate balance of the budget for the socialist Venezuelan Republic of Slovenia on Tuesday. And in one sentence, everything would be said. Why? Because this story is the same as it was decades ago, and unfortunately, it's also an intermediate story. You know what? This budget and its adoption is in some ways a perfect example or if you want the perfect argument that it would be necessary to amend the Slovenian Constitution at least two points. One is the adoption of the government, so that the government can be confirmed at once and that funny games can fall away when the prime minister votes with one majority, with the other composition of the government, and then it is claimed who is in the government and who is not, and we are going to kindergarten, which no one believes, but this kindergarten lasts and lasts. Another such thing is the electoral system. An electoral system that causes any major government party to always, because it's always the same in this system, the goal, the victim, if you want, blackmailing some small government party, or as in the present case led to absurdity, those supra-government parties. That's why I used to say Venezuelan Republic. The goal of the Left is Venezuela, it's an example, it's the goal, it looks, I don't know, and it's a wastebasket, and it's a hospital dying, because people don't have to survive. But well, that's their goal, if people believe him, people are always right. But then their Member can afford to receive a budget letter such as this, saying that, although it is not clear to him why, but that the coalition Members will obviously bless all of this, and today you are exactly celebrating it at the same time continues: “Well, it is probably a nuisance to think about developments if they do not.” [[…]] A very clear threat. By the way, due to a similar arrangement, in an even softer form, a police investigation took place in 2010 against one of the ministers of one of the parliamentary parties. But apparently one is allowed all but one is nothing. What is the problem with this, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is how things always become unconstant. And such things are ineffective. This is an excellent example of your budget, especially if we look at it in terms of forecasting changes in the tax system. When it has a good point, new taxes, higher taxes are forecast, and, of course, it is forgotten that this has a significant impact on the document before you today because it predicts an economic environment. In the present case, taxes, additional taxes on dividends, on capital, on profits, on profits. Ladies and gentlemen, what will be the result? The neighbouring Croatia has significantly more favourable conditions – moving there. The neighbouring Austria has more stable and favourable conditions – moving there. This is said to be the final result of such predictions and actions, if they are even realized – and I believe they will, because it is clear that Levitsa has all the power and you are left with only puppets – that means that in the long term Slovenia is very badly written. You know, today can be a deserted Tuesday and you can share doughnuts, you can all say, we have a lot of money, it's nice, it's economic growth. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, but there's an ashtray Wednesday behind the desert Tuesdays. And if you look at the event in our biggest partners, headed by Germany, you will see that there are very dark clouds that are already coming to the Slovenian sky. Importers, exporters and, above all, our most sensitive and also the most important automotive export industry say that the orders have already been cut down, that individual orders have already been cancelled and that this has already reached one third in some sectors. This means, of course, that the economic environment in Slovenia will also deteriorate significantly. There's going to be some phase delay, you're probably counting on it, but then the joke's over. And that's why we should be creating exactly the opposite environment that you're creating. You should stimulate new investments, that is to say to relieve capital in order to encourage investors to come, or at least those who are already here, to continue with the investments started. You're gonna point the whole way. And then what's left? Debt. That's what you call a burden transfer, all that you're going to spend, to the next generation. It is very sad to hear how little understanding there is for entrepreneurship to be an engine of development in the debates of some Members. Today we have heard a great deal about how much the state should give for how much the state should give for what is, of course, legitimate, but, ladies and gentlemen, this money has to be earned somewhere. Don't put him under the next generation's weight by borrowing. This means that there must be such systemic conditions that will stimulate additional investments, in particular those that are the most productive, highly productive jobs, high technology, and of course allow everyone and everyone to maximize their entrepreneurial potential. It's not like everyone's finally parasiteizing in the country. You talked a lot about the movie today, about the need for more money for the movie and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want anyone to be shocked, but in most of the countries of the world, films are made to deserve them, it's a profitable, entrepreneurial act. But of course, there are a lot of different films, not the ones we have seen in Slovenia, and they were, of course, funded by public funds, which made a fool out of their own country and were sometimes the worst political propaganda you could ever imagine. It's similar to culture. You all say you need to spend more on culture. Yes, in principle, I agree, only, ladies and gentlemen, then let this be the culture that strengthens everything that is beautiful in a man who strengthens the values on which independent Slovenia and Slovenia are founded, as it strengthens our identity, but does not, as in the previous award of Prešern's awards, reward anything that is destructive, which is destructive, and it is sold as a kubaji culture. Well, that's called cultural Marxism, who doesn't know. But don't tell me it's Slovenian culture! I don't judge ma'am. These ladies, who received a reward last year, would probably have been able to cash it somehow differently by their behaviour elsewhere. One would probably have succeeded in another video production, which is highly profitable, and the other would probably have been able to cut pieces in some textile factory apart. That's their range, really. But don't sell it to me as a culture. I do not condemn these two ladies to go into this; but all others who act similarly and parasite on the Slovenian budget. But I condemn those who give them money for it, which goes into the pockets of taxpayers, and for such things they spend taxpayers' money. The one who declares it a culture is a criminal to me. So much so that we're clear. This has nothing to do with culture, but it is quite the opposite of culture in that noble sense of word, as this culture as such would have deserved, and throughout history it has played this role for Slovenia. You've also talked a lot about the advantage of strengthening wages in public administration, but I don't know what else we've heard. You know, it's very interesting here how many of these socialist relapses are heard or understood if you're listening carefully to such debates. The answer itself was given by two very famous people. One is Solzanic, Nobel laureate for literature, who said so beautifully that the greatest fraud in history is that it was claimed that socialism was supposed to be the invention of poor crowds to control financial speculators and bankers, and in fact socialism is the invention of financial speculators and bankers to control poor masses. Ladies and gentlemen, remember these words of Solzecin, because they are brilliant. They've told us everything we need to know about what's going on. What, then, is the effect of such a budget as you represent here? In the end, it's all hanging on the bosoms of the mother country. This, of course, provides additional voters, but in the end it all ends in poverty, just as it is in Venezuela. That is why I said that this is a suitable budget for the Venezuelan Socialist Republic. And every next one will probably be worse than that as long as there's such a coalition. Unfortunately for this, let me also remind you of the words of Mrs Margaret Thatcher, who said what the main problem of socialism is: “Sooner or later you run out of other people's money”, sooner or later the money of other people is running out. You know, now it's the end of winter when it's easier to understand, but when it's the worst cold, it's a great time, because it's the only time you see a left-handed man with a hand in his own pocket. Otherwise, it's always in your wallet. Then your money gives you back and says, "How good I am, look, I gave you the money." Before that, he took it from your pocket with too much taxes, too much taxes, with all the other tricks of socialism, which are very well known. Not to be well written, I am afraid that the words of the LMŠ Member, who has previously twice so vehemently stressed: “Slovenia is calm, Slovenia is clean, there are no garbage everywhere.” Ladies and gentlemen, then explain to me the ruling coalition why you signed the Marrakesh Agreement and why you import migrants. Because if I take you right now to the White Landscape or down to Primorsko, you will see what an uncharted piggy stays there on the ground, along our beautiful Slovenia where they go over. That what you think about how calm Slovenia is, those who have already been attacked by migrants in one way or another, that I do not say the victim of the place, the thief, everything that is, of course, hidden from the public, and the numbers here are unforgivable and are increasing from day to day. Not to mention what's going on elsewhere in Europe. You know, if you want to boast that Slovenia is peaceful and that Slovenia is clean, then this policy will first have to be radically changed and put Slovenia first and also in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia all the money that is intended for various migrants and the like, dedicated to Slovenians and Slovenes, for all those who have too low pensions, for all those who need and deserve adequate health care, for all those who want and deserve it, they have every right to demand it from the country, quality education and everything else that should always be the first care. Ladies and gentlemen, when it will guide those who are preparing and adopting the budget, first Slovenia, then Slovenia will also experience faster development. Now I am afraid that this scale will be resolved within a certain number of months, just as it is when we adopt the then Pahor's budget balance, which ended, as you all know, with a real tragedy as regards the development of the Republic of Slovenia. And as we said, if no one wants to learn from history, history likes to repeat itself, for the first time as a tragedy, for the second time as a farce. And that's a farce today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes, for this debate. The next panellist is Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to everyone, including the government party that's here with us today! I will try to base my debate on one slightly different energy potential, and I think I will succeed, I hope to predict it in advance. Today we are dealing with the rebalancing and in SMC I will say so, we are talking a lot today also about – they are so hidden, but there I am peeking out – a variety of policy ideologies as well as in the field of economics. And it's all intertwined, and we're getting in a little bit of a fight here. In the SMC, our view is more social-liberal, and in this National Assembly we find other views. This game, which is taking place today, is of its own interest, but I'm sorry that we don't raise it a few levels higher. This debate could be a proud one for all of us, and we could all take some of it to the final stage. If I focus again on the budget itself. We know that this is to some extent also a delicate political manoeuvre, but today, at the beginning of all the discussions, we have also heard that there is not enough cooperation between the coalition and the opposition. And then I wonder what this rebalancing should be like, or if I widen the debate on what the budget should be like, I believe, in the short term, when it comes to 2020 for the opposition to like it. Because normally, if a coalition prepares it, then they put in some kind of energy, some expectations, and they tried as hard as they could. We can be satisfied with this proposal, we can be a little less satisfied, we can be very dissatisfied, but my question still exists. I will add this if the problem of this rebalancing is that only a few million, as we have heard in the past – in some other governments, I do not know whether it was ten years ago, less or more, since it does not matter that with some amendment 2.3 million – we move from one item to another item and then some budget or some balance from being bad, becoming good, then we operate with some relatively well-prepared drafts or documents, I do not understand this cooperation in this way, but I understand it in a slightly more complex way, in a different way. Of course, if this idea of this very broad cooperation is driven to extremes or extremes, we come to the conclusion that we do not really need a coalition or opposition and we can all sit down and agree. But unfortunately, political reality is such that it's not possible. And let's not just look at Slovenia, we probably know it doesn't work anywhere. Perhaps in some local community, which is very small and easy to feel and realizes that it must be so closely connected that any division based on some ideologies is something that hinders them, rather than giving them some incentive to take the necessary steps forward. And if we talk again about ideology, which is at the end of the stage, in the area of economics, we interrupt whether we should act pro-cyclically or act acyclically, or in good economic conditions raise taxes, let us release them, increase consumption, let us release consumption, what to do when things change, that is when our economy is doing well, or let us raise taxes again, let us release them, let us reduce consumption – that is, that is, the matter of which the budget or the balance of the budget is talking. Here we can find very good solutions, but we can also break them. I believe that this draft, which we have before us, is aware of all the risks they are talking about in the final stage not only of the Fiscal Council or of the European Commission, but of many others. Because, so I will say, what is in the influence of Slovenian politics or the political system, those subsystems in which we have a word that we can regulate by means of certain measures, laws and so on – I believe that we can take steps here. I am a little more concerned about the part of our reality, which we as Slovenia do not have an impact on, and these are mainly areas that are related to changes that are taking place globally, i.e. in terms of protectionism itself and geopolitical threats, in view of individual regions that are not even that far away from us, or also in some places that may at some point be in the face of some unpleasant circumstances or some events, even in situations that no one wants. This I think is what Slovenia can do to us the most problems. But there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Many times we hear about it, or even louder are those who talk about the arrival of a recession. Such messages are harmful to our economy. I am not saying that we do not need to be careful and follow very closely what is happening in our closest trading partners, what is happening within the European Union and beyond. But talking about recession right now is something that has a particularly negative effect on our economy. However, it is a fact, and many institutions that are active in the field of economics stress that certain coolings are taking place. These coolings, however, are due to precisely these uncertain circumstances within the European Union as compared to brexit and to the relationship between the US and China and could still be listed. What is important about the rebalancing itself is that it pursues some medium-term sustainability of public finances, because this is just some basis, some real basis for the well-being of our people in the long run. But the problem that we have in politics is that those policies that are set up in a long time are often not reflected in some overly high public opinion support of any government, whether left, right, middle or third or fourth. This is the responsibility of a policy that must be placed on its shoulders and sometimes squeezed. Let me put it this way, state policy, which then invests some people's confidence in projects that may not seem to be the most popular at some point, but on the medium and long term bring some positive results. My expectation is confirmed because we have heard a lot about an OECD study over the past few months, which says that our workload in Slovenia is disproportionately high compared to other OECD members, and on the other hand, our capital is less taxed. We are also talking about one such draft, and again from this recommendation we have received from the OECD, from one part of the political space I hear only one half of the equation, so, capital will be taxed too. There must be something to be aware of – we in Slovenia are most strongly competing with countries that are in our immediate vicinity, including Italy, Austria, Hungary, Croatia, and then South or East, where we have some comparable platforms or where the cost of work is comparable, and certainly some company, when deciding whether it will remain in Slovenia or whether it will come to Slovenia or Austria, will assess the whole range of costs on the one hand and on the other hand the level of some services offered by the country. I believe that Slovenia offers a relatively high level of services, but I am sure we still have opportunities for improvement in a number of areas. I will not now mention this, because this is not the substance of today's debate, but it will certainly be an opportunity to talk about this in the future, when we will also address those challenges that we are only dealing with as a matter of urgency today. It seems important to me that, from the point of view of our country's indebtedness in the last period, we are in a better position. In the past, even in 2014, we were in debt for a thousand 84 million euros, i.e. a billion 84 in 2019, which is today, but this debt is less than 300 million. So for something that we've been producing with the crisis itself, we're going to need a little more time to reduce it, but it's certainly a process that's positive and allows us, in the medium and long term, a lot of other levers, so that instead of investing in interest, it's something else that's more productive. If I touch two ministries, which are still closest to me from the point of view of committee work, these are mainly the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, I can briefly say the following. The Ministry of Environment and Space has acquired additional resources, i.e. from 303 million to 375, and these resources will focus on environmental protection, in particular for priority remediation in the past of contaminated areas. If I expose them, they're Jerne's channel, the Rakkovnik and the Celje Cauldron, where five kindergartens will be repaired this year. In addition, these resources will strengthen the functioning of the Environment and Space Inspectorate. The Ministry will also address the problems of ecosystems and waste tyres in the Drava Field and also all, I think, of the already well-known problems of accumulated waste packaging. A lot will also be done in the area of flood protection; a lot of additional resources are also for quality space management, a total of 36 million; additional funds are also provided for subsidies for market rents. Priorities include the provision of drinking water, decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water, measures to improve the urban environment, urban nutrition, reducing air pollution, reducing noise and ensuring biodiversity. If I touch the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology also has additional resources, from 280 million to 350. These funds will focus on strengthening the international competitiveness of Slovenian companies. I think it is crucial at this point that we take advantage of these favourable conditions while also working intensively on our business sector being systematically responsible for making it easier to move, invest and go into new business. It is important to continue to simplify the administrative and other procedures themselves, so that our economy operates in a predictable environment, to continue to work on measures to promote Slovenian value chains, to promote entry and exit investments and to further strengthen business clusters and networks, which then also make it easier to perform abroad. It is also important to continue to privatise or withdraw the country from those portfolios or investments where its role is not crucial, while at the same time we must remain present where this is in our strategic interest. It is certainly one of the areas where much work will be done, including the further promotion of foreign investment, and I hope that there will also be enough awareness in advance that we do not block these investments, as we like to do. The Rebalance is said to have allocated the most additional resources to entrepreneurship and competitiveness, education and sport, transport and transport infrastructure, the environment, defence and protection and social security. If I keep going. My personal view of the rebalancing itself could be summed up in one sentence, which would rather be a little more conservative with regard to the finances themselves and a little more progressive with regard to freedom of thought and liberal values. I will stress once again that the European Bank is also talking about partial cooling and that the risk of a recession is weak. So if the situation within the region and the wider global situation does not deteriorate, then we can also look forward to a sufficiently high economic growth that will allow us to take further steps and also to raise the level of social and other services themselves. However, let me touch on one more point, which I mentioned in the introduction, that this debate could be on a level, and unfortunately it is not. I don't even agree with the way we communicate when we talk about putting together some blank accounts and there's some kind of blackmail and stuff. Also, I don't think it's appropriate to take any offense to the ministerial team. I think we're all adults here and we can talk on the basis of arguments. However, if we have no arguments, if we have exhausted them, if we are running out of imaginations or have different ideas and habits, then of course insults and a different way of communicating come into play. I do not think that this contributes to anything, but it helps us to spit ourselves in our own plate and to undermine the reputation of the Member's institution and of the National Assembly. We do not have too much work and it seems to me that it is a shame that we are going through very important processes for our country in such a cheap way, which is certainly the final stage of the budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thanks. Nice. First he gets the word for the replica, Mr. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thesis now developed by the honourable Member of the LMŠ [[Lapsus linguae. LMŠ instead of SMC, to which Vice-President Tina Heferle and Member Gregor Perič respond.]] to talk about tight economic conditions, including recession forecasts, intimidation of the Slovenian economy and that it is bad for the economy and for all – this is really a little too severe. Firstly, entrepreneurs, at least export entrepreneurship, believe, are more closely monitoring the movement in our partner countries than probably the vast majority of Members and Members present here. Secondly, the budget that is ahead of us today, and that is exactly what I have been talking about, is based on estimates, on projections of the economic trends that are expected during the period covered. This is indeed the essential basis of what we are actually deciding today. And if we close our eyes before that, I don't know how you imagine a real budget will be adopted. Because then we get to the point that we saw her at the beginning when Mr Sarec said that the government from 2004 to 2008 was guilty of being in the current state of being overexploited. Ladies and gentlemen, too much spending has been generated by the budget's rebalancing after the fall of that government when Pahor arrived, raising public spending by a balance, even though just as the earlier darker horizons have been showing up, by EUR 800 million. That's why the whole story went the way it went. However, I believe that Mr Šarec does not recall this, because he was too busy at the time signing that infamous petition 571 against censorship, which defiled Slovenia abroad, would threaten human rights if Slovenia led the European Union. And that's very sad, and it says a lot about those who did. However, Slovenia, as you know, has done its task extremely well. I'm just hoping it'll be like this next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Just to fix Mr. Grimes for a magnetogram. You've replicated the SMC's MP, not the LMSH. I have now seen that Mr Perič has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Actually, you've already spent it on me. I just wanted to tell my colleague Grimes that if you would listen to me from the beginning to the end, I also mentioned that I was from SMC. I'm obviously talking, but we're not listening here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Of course, this balance is very good. Why? Because a lot of new money has come into the state budget. If we got a billion more new money, of course that's good. But whether we've redistributed that money well, that's another question. The coalition will claim that this is the best balance, but in the opposition we claim that it would be necessary to put more money and less on some other items. We are also told by the Fiscal Council, the European Commission, the professors who today have been so plagued by the President of the Government that they are involved in what they are just saying. This is exactly what they are telling us – that the structure of this budget or the budget rebalancing is not the best or will not be sustainable in the medium term and does not bring about any reforms. So the structure of the budget itself, that the state sector uses more resources again and will continue to spend more money in the future than it has so far. At the moment of positive economic growth, of course, the balance can be good because we have received more revenue. However, the deterioration is forecasting, it has already been significantly predicted and already appears in Germany, and we all know how we depend on exports to Germany, which is our largest economic partner. Thank God that consumption in Slovenia is improving, so that people have a little more money, but this consumption will by no means be able to replace the failure made by companies in exports. That's what we can read. That this budget structure is therefore not the best. I also believe that if this coalition really wants to implement a new, different policy, it would be good if they also listened to the opposition, if they heard the opposition and, at least, if they did, if they had something to say. Then, of course, our debates can get very tighter. You say everything's good and good, we say it's not good and right, and everyone's right. But I don't feel responsible for this balance, even for the negative things we see in it, because I have no say in this balance. That's why I don't know why I should praise him. Because it's not. Is it true that this budget was then made to fill in the future, regardless of the fact that reduced economic growth, reduced exports and so on, or that in the future we will have only more expenditure and not so much revenue, and that the next governments will have to reduce and accept the various buzzes, which is unpleasant? What the European Commission has been telling us for a very long time, not because Europe is ugly, but because it also foresees medium- and long-term consequences, they are proposing that we should make certain structural reforms. Earlier, when I listened to my colleague Pavšić, he was talking about how we should think about pensioners in 30 years. That's right. And if we're going to think about what's gonna happen in 30 years and what's gonna happen in 15 years, then we have to change and accept certain things now. I will say that I hope that future laws or future budgets will still be so directed that there will also be a structural reform of the budget, that the state will no longer be so expensive and that money will go for those investments that do bring some added value. I would invest more immediately in the development axes, in the roads to Koroška, White Krajina, not to mention the road Škofljica-Ribnica-Kočevje, which is truly extremely burdened, which needs the bypasses, the industry is developing there, and on the other hand there are poor traffic links, and elsewhere. I remember many years ago driving towards Styria, how long it took to drive, in my youth, or against Prekmur, how long it took us to get to Murska Sobota and beyond. Now, actually, this is a trifle, because we're fast there, of course, if there's no traffic congestion and accidents. Similarly, against the white landscape, we know of Koroška’s problems, and so on. We're nodding and agreeing. I hope that this third development axis will be well placed, but not that it will once again destroy the entire agricultural land and much more. We have also proposed amendments for research and development, because this is precisely the added value for different professions or jobs in companies that bring company development, better wages, not just minimum wages. I would rather see how we have very few minimum wages, how we all have average European wages and how the standard improves because we have added-value jobs, but not that we only produce something like this, which we can then sell at only low prices. What else am I reading to this coalition and the rebalancing? We often hear, yes, but we could go to the government – of course, this is the free decision of each individual party. That's just how we decided to do it. But if we really want to build some kind of cooperative policy, then I really expected you to follow at least one of our amendments. I'm not saying that everyone is absolutely necessary, but what good, necessary and useful things are for everyone. Above all, I must say that I am sad, but there was no hearing to devote at least a little more money to the Slovenians' Office. Also fellow Members from the Slovenian Commission, all in line, coalition, opposition, we were amazed at the numbers. Because this figure has increased, I think, by 0,29% when we talk about how many percent of the individual items have increased. This office has a symbolic meaning. All these years of crisis, the funds have been shrinking, now we say that there is a time of fat cows, we have gained a lot in the budget, and we should really say that we respect, we also appreciate our relatives in place, in the world, and that we are willing to give a little more of this cake. We still have this hope that perhaps something will happen in the vote on the amendments, and this area will be given — not because I made this amendment, but because I had to give it because I was expected by members of the Slovenian Commission, all members. I hope that we will tell our fellow citizens that they are precious to us, dear, that we think of them, that we respect them and support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Ferenc Horváth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted also in my name, respected colleagues and colleagues! As my colleague Felice Žiž said today in the position of the Group of Members, we will support the budget's balance, even though we are not fully satisfied with it. But somehow we are trying to think positively, and we must admit that certain funds on so-called nationalities have only slightly increased. As I said, we are not satisfied with the whole of the rebalancing itself, but we are kind of optimistic that this dialogue has started and that it has also been pointed out to the Commission for National Communities that both indigenous national communities can count on additional resources in the coming year, in particular as regards new content. Because in fact, the current budget, to be very honest, is actually enough to operate at that basic level for our institutions and institutions. However, for a number of years, we are expecting additional resources for new content, especially for the development of these new content, and especially for young people, so that with new content, with a new offer, I will say, we are staying in a region that is even more empty with this economic backlog. There is also a need for certain investments in the region, especially with additional value, as far as earnings are concerned. I think that the country has a kind of obligation here to the whole bilingual area, because in the past our region has been seen many times as a cheap labour region, and this is still happening. Until this region in general, not only for the Hungarian community, but for all members, more interesting as far as the future is concerned, migration is likely to be even greater. In part, we would also need additional resources to restore certain bilingual educational institutions. Sometimes these buildings are quite long, and if any inspector came, then I am not sure that he would give a positive opinion everywhere for their further operation. However, since our wishes for additional resources that were not actually covered in the budget's rebalancing compared to the total amounts were relatively low, I still hope for the obedience and well-being of both the Government and the ministries, that even in 2019 these resources will be somehow within those reserves that I expect each ministry to have found, and I hope that we will take a step forward. Finally, I would like to say that I personally regret that the Slovenian office did not receive any more funds because, as a member of the indigenous Hungarian community in Slovenia and as a member of the commission, I think it is also right that the Slovenians should also receive additional funds as a symbol or an indicator of the fact that we really care about their operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The next one should have the word, Mr Vojko Starović, but unfortunately he is not in the hall, so he has the word mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have obviously heard several times, both by the proposaler and by many coalition Members, that the proposal for a budget rebalancing is stable, developmental, social, human-friendly and more. Otherwise, I understand you, because since you've prepared the rebalancing, you have to defend it. However, in order for a person to be able to create a real picture, it is necessary to remove your pink glasses and look more realistically at what the profession, the Fiscal Council as guardian of the legality of the budget, as the European Commission has pointed out, and, finally, what is the opinion of the Council of State which has already considered the document. But it certainly gets a little stuck here, that is, the Fiscal Council is worried about the structural deficit, the State Council is threatening you with a veto, and the European Commission wonders what is actually going on in the country, that the proposal does not contain exactly any structural reform that would bring any long-term effects in the time of fat cows. But the ruling coalition obviously doesn't care. You obviously don't even care if our citizens wait for any special checks for months and months to wait for flight operations. What if, by the way, you find out that there are no family doctors – health reforms are obviously not going to happen. After all, even with the pension reform, you will obviously not be busy for a while, because you do not think it is necessary to raise pensions for the time being. Slovenia today belongs to a group of those European countries that have more than doubled their public debt over the past ten years. Today, the Prime Minister here asked where you were when the country raised 32 billion debts. Dear Mr Šarec, I tell you, they have been in the government, but today you have a problem because they are also in your government. Today I also listened attentively to a colleague from the government coalition, especially the Desus party. Dear pensioners, I hope you have listened to them too, for the party Desus today proudly announces that you have already received higher pensions in February. Because I'm talking about those 10–17 euros you've seen on average in your accounts. And now I'm going to leave it to you that you've been raised on the other side of care, health insurance, health care prices and more. Here I will now also allow myself to say something on behalf of the pensioners. Dear government representatives, respected coalition colleagues, stop making fools of our pensioners. Pensions are not your government candy, pensions are pre-deserved money, a earned income for which pensioners have worked solidly for 40 years or more. Some of you have even collected signatures at the time before the elections to support them, so it would be appropriate to now fulfill your pre-election promises, prepare a reform of the pension system and provide pensioners with a decent pension, as they did with their hard work after all. But all your government has managed to do in these months is to raise the minimum wage. But for those of you who have raised their minimum wage by your measure for less than 30 euros, on the other hand, you have withdrawn certain social transfers. Unfortunately, you do not only raise minimum wages, but also raises the prices of kindergartens and care in nursing homes, increases the payment for health insurance and the VAT remains at an increase in pre-crisis level. Respectable espionage owners, yes, the government has not forgotten you either. Your contributions to the Treasury are also irritated. The haste has so far not been confirmed by a minister who has already shown a culture that has already shown an appetite for tax hikes. Now there's no coalition colleague here who's wondering what the balance should be to support the opposition, but let me give you an answer. One with which you will finally relieve people's wages. The kind with which you will give the pensioners the pensions they deserve. Such measures as yours, on the other hand, will not irritate kindergartens, nursing homes, health services, or anything else. Such that raising the average in municipalities will also have a developmental effect. Such that investments in their places will not only be praised by a colleague from Maribor or someone from Ljubljana, but also by an MEP from Haloz or herself coming from Slovenia from Bistrica. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are not here today to consider a proposal for a rebalancing of the 2019 budget that would bring something good to our people. Today we are considering a plan to spend taxpayers' money for 2019, and this is summarised under the political programme of the super-coaliciary party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u87	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members! For the past six years, the country has seen economic growth, and it is true, even because we then paid the debts of others. This growth has resulted in record high budget revenues that have enabled the elimination of austerity measures and even enabled the surplus of the budget. But we still have a lot of work to do. At Alenka Bratušek, we are aware of the need to regulate the health situation, regulate the long-term care area and, last but not least, arrange decent annual supplements. Today, everyone who enters the labour market is thinking about a safe age. It is thus necessary to raise the dose percentage as set out in our agreement. We need to enable young people to solve housing problems. In doing so, we also need to adapt their pension schemes so that the purchase of housing will be part of long-term pension savings. Climate change, digitisation and informationisation pose a number of challenges for our society. Lifelong learning, learning new skills and skills have thus become a constant and a serious need. At yesterday's meeting of economic and financial committees, we discussed the issue of Post Slovenia. Its traffic is steadily falling due to digitisation and informationisation and will continue to decline in the future. An ageing society presents a number of new challenges. We will face a shortage of labour, so it will also be necessary to regulate the work of pensioners in such a way that their pensions due to work will not be jeopardised. Digitalisation and IT also offer many new opportunities in the field of energy, in the area of group self-sustainment and also in the field of civil-military cooperation. This allows us to install photovoltaic modules on the roofs of the warehousing, and thus to zoom in and value investments in self-sustainment. We know that policy is united, that European funds are practically our only development resources, and that is why we benefit from them in all our infrastructure projects. Because of all of this, I will support the proposal for a rebalancing and the corresponding Zipers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli has the floor as the last debater in this round of applicants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I'll say I like this budget rebalancing. It's nice, it's interesting to see here – well, it's time for ministers to leave, go, stay here, their secretary of state, but one can think about it, say something in that sense. Mrs Jazbec, I think she's tired because she's been here for so many hours, but anyway, she's gonna have to listen to our comments or our opinions for a few hours. The budget as such is the same Show direction, which direction we're going or which way we want to go, we want to. [[…]] However, the balance of the budget is that corrective document which needs to be adopted in view of the impossible reallocations. It is important to say that the balance is certainly a picture of what will happen tomorrow. We know that in a few months we will also start talking about the new budget, 2020/2021. I'm on the sidelines, but I'm still gonna take a little freedom to say what I think about the budget recommendation that will. On the balance sheet I think we welcome him, the capital that has come, the money that has come in, is also normal to be distributed in one way or another, but I fear that these moves made by the minister or the ministry in general will not be sustainable. You know, we're talking about four percent and a half of GDP. One point less than a second year will be 250 million less. 250 million less, which will have to be obtained in such a way as has now been adopted by this rebalancing. So when the outputs are, we also have to get the input, according to your own words. So, we need to see where we get it from. There are only two ways: whether there are cuts or taxes. We don't know the others. It can't be different. To make cuts on what we've worked so hard for, after all the time we've finally come to that period, what we've heard over and over, fat cows, six years of growth. [[…]] Nor do I believe that there will be such a strong crisis in the coming years. Surely it will be in a particular sector, there are analyses that point to this, especially in the automotive sector, true iron as such, and this is also shown by macroeconomic projections in this regard. So I don't think it's gonna be that bad. I am sure that 3.5 percent of GDP will also be achieved. Nevertheless, we will have 250 million less in our state treasury. And that worries me a little bit. I'm afraid we're going to get the money we're going to need in our pockets, but in our pockets, we're going to get the hardworking, good, resourceful, innovative entrepreneurs and craftsmen. This is one thing I don't like about this place. Because working a budget like this is one thing, getting money from the ones who put the most into this budget, if we say so, contribute, but it is a big mistake. I apologize to my colleagues from the Left who have a completely different opinion on capital, but once I would like to explain one very simple matter to them: neither would it be social if there were no capital. So, without capital, even socialism can't exist. Spitting on capital is the worst thing we can do in one country. It is said that we must always consider that the real sector is also strong, strong and very important for the development of our country and for the existence of the system we have set ourselves. I hope you understand what I'm saying. I need to say one more thing. I'm very sorry that we didn't get the Secretary of State for the small economy. This was then somehow presented in one package, but I hope and I really wish that they would open this argument on Thursday at the government. I think it is necessary, absolutely necessary, for craftsmen, small entrepreneurs to have their own representative to address mainly bureaucratic obstacles because they are intolerable to these people. I read in the paper yesterday that the hairdresser will have to weigh her hair and report to the agency how many pounds of hair it is. Where did we go?Oh, my God! Are we solving problems for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs or are we still just trying to burden them in every way? And tax and operational as such. The hairdresser will cut her hair now so she can weigh. Where did we come from?Oh, my God! Where are we?Oh, my God! Who's following these things?Oh, my God! It's funny, isn't it? Yeah, it's really funny, I think it's really funny. But it's sad! And we're not gonna stop this nonsense! Every craftsman must weigh now! She's gonna buy a hair dryer and she's gonna have to weigh the chart she needed to do that. My boys, because we have Interseroh, Slopak, the agencies that write everything, all the things that come in, and the garbage all kinds of packs, iron, plastic, wood, everything. Who's in charge?Oh, my God! Why do we have to do this?Oh, my God! Well, there is also one reason, one small reason why we also need the secretary of state for a small economy – to prevent at least that connecting article from being among the diligent, among the heroes, as I always say, craftsmen and among the ruling suitors or among their directors at various ministries. Also, I hear he's getting ready to raise taxes. In fact, that the 5% tax, which I also approve of, is also right, because the relief is too much for large companies, and here I also agree with you, Levica, this is a proposal that I think we all support. But you need to know something that in general would raise 19% to 20 as a tax on profit and then give in capital profit from 25 to 30 – look, I'll tell you something. The worker who works for the prize gets paid. Make it good, make it bad, it doesn't matter — pay. But the entrepreneur, the craftsman who pawned the house, who took the credits that gave his innovation inside, all the knowledge, his reward was profit. And if we don't let it go, we won't go any further, there won't be any more innovative people, there won't be any more ideas. He won't! They will move abroad, as they already think, and you know that the agencies in Slovenia that are already offering this will tell you in person, but there is no problem changing the seat. But why? So we're going to beat the craftsmen in the pocket with paperwork. And what else do you want? And that we will be liked we will do more of this type of budgets and rebalancing so that we can raise social and everything we need to do to make us more and more like each other. That's not how it works. I'm sorry, but that's not how it works. I mean, it's not going – it's going, of course, now. Now there's a billion more money, that's good, but tomorrow, that's what we have to ask ourselves. It's hard, you know, to raise two, three classes of wages and then the next thing you know, guys, we have to lower your salary. It's not the right way. I'm talking to you from a practical point of view, because I think it's best for operational people to understand what this is about, because otherwise we'll talk one and the same, why not and that. We're talking a few things anyway, which I don't think is connected, but here we are. I tell you something, Madam Secretary of State, that I will engage very well and very specifically in the next budget. Especially in those items that I'm interested in, those items where I'm mothered, where I'm stabbed, because I see that dishonesty, where I see that there is no reallocation or distribution of money in the way that it should be. And we know that there are many items here. That there will be no misunderstanding, I will vote in favour, otherwise I can't, but I will. But you need to know that big mistakes are in there. Mistakes, in my opinion. Given that I have already prepared four budgets, the donkeys of the municipality, which are different, but the system is always the same, you know, instead of millions we talk about larger numbers, but it's always the same thing. [[…]] You've got so much money. That's how much money you have to make. But you can sort it out in a different way. I agree with that. And we need to be careful not to cross that line, those numbers that can make us gray hair tomorrow. For today, I think I said what I meant in a very simple way. I think you understand. I fear that this kind of budget is literally said — and I repeat, once again, like — one big election campaign. I hope it's not, well, I hope we stick to what it is. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As you yourself said, you said in a very simple way and in this way you earned a simple replica. Dr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Because of course I have the opportunity and the opportunity only three minutes – see also in Levica we are people who have some entrepreneurial experience behind us. It's not just me. And my present doesn't exactly like it. I'll be home tired to say it again. For six years, I've worked as a black animal to set up a family company that works well today, I know what it means to work 16, 17 hours together in a season in tourism, I know what it means to work together in a dead season, when you don't have an ongoing burqa business, like a younger colleague, or pay hard. And there are a few people with me in Levica who are successful entrepreneurs. There is a fundamental difference between us and someone else in the question of redistribution, how we will divide what we create together. I am even – in the magnetogram is verifiable, my colleague – said, I will be the happiest person in Slovenia if we do not get one cent out of profits into the budget if all of these money goes into development, into co-ownership, into new technologies, even into some kind of acquisition. And here I would see some tax policy that would make it possible. I also have a whole series of entrepreneurs, some who elect Levica, others who don't, they say, we're against giving someone relief, forgiveness, because there's nine of them that short, and one that's probably, as they say, from the right political option, somehow not. And you, too, are in a party, I remember, in some of the mandates before this party flew, there was a minister at the MGRT who, through such grants, had a friendly, privatized toolbox at his fingertips. This too needs to be discussed, but of course it is necessary to talk about it – and here I have been franticly lonely in my previous term – how, if I say Marxist, to create a higher added value. Not in a way to write some smart specialization strategy because of Brussels, to laugh at us because of it, which is one pumpkin, in our own words, but to ask ourselves, like the Estonians, what are we going to do to make us all live better. I was with the President of the Estonian Parliament for dinner or a late lunch. When you need to talk to someone seriously, you often call me both protocols, Ducky, but you have time. And he said, "Look, the story is very simple. Five grandfathers, because no lady was the party's president, from the opposition, the coalition sat us together and we wondered what we would do in Estonia to live better." And they agreed on e-Estonia, which is not a matter of one mandate or one government. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thanks for the simple replica. Ladies and gentlemen, I find that the list of applicants has been exhausted. Does anyone else want to talk? Is there anyone who hasn't raised his hand? I'm kidding. We're starting to create a new leaf. Please sign up whoever you want. Thanks for the ten applications. The first one has the word, Mr. Vojko Starović, get ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, President. Hello, everyone! Each budget has some priorities, including this one. Also with regard to these priorities, which have been set and proposed in this budget, there have been many coordinations and some compromises have been reached because no policy is possible without compromises. On this occasion, I would look at investment in science. In the European space, now that Horizon 2020 is slowly running out, it is noted that European joint investment in open science is being paid and highly paid. That is why it is also a decision for the next perspective, 2021-2027, to significantly increase these funds, to propose 100 billion, which I think is the right direction. Also in this proposed budget or budget rebalancing in Slovenia, an increase in resources for science is proposed, but it is still far from what we have written in the coalition agreement – that by 2022 we will raise, I hope that this will work, to 1% of the gross social product. At this height, it is estimated that Slovenian science will keep in contact with the world in the field of basic research. In doing so, I strongly hope and recommend, as I have also stated in the European Parliament during the European Parliamentary Week, that an appropriate part of the investment in science will also be devoted to basic research in the field of the functioning of society, its institutions, systems and organisations with the aim of finding solutions that will bring greater efficiency and stability to the functioning of institutions. A very large World Bank survey was carried out in 122 countries, i.e. in the vast majority of countries in the world, showing that in developed countries, where Slovenia also belongs under these criteria, 80% have an impact on the social well-being of the institution, capital 17%, natural wealth 2%. This is indeed a large-scale study led by the World Bank, its chief economist, signed by all those who apply below, showing that the institutions of force are important. Therefore, I think it is good that research is also carried out in the field of companies or organisations, their organisations, and they are looking for better solutions. Because here is the main progress, not in capital and resources or in natural wealth, but in the functioning of the institutions that we all of the day in this national council like to attack so much that they are not considered expensive, that they are nothing and so on. At least too often, I'm not saying it's a constant presence. I am convinced that science can decisively help in designing and making good political decisions, namely in Aristotle's notion of a policy that sees politics as a public activity of free people, which is seen as an effort to ensure order, stability and justice in society. In short, it would be very useful for society to launch targeted scientific research, as is done in the field of physics. Let's take a look at Cern. I believe that the results of such an approach could bring many new knowledge, insights that can greatly help solve the challenges posed by an increasingly complex and unpredictable social reality. Of course, there are no simple solutions to this. Simple solutions are offered only by populists. Today, science, especially neurology, and much data, big data, has a powerful tool to study the functioning of society. There is also a theory of chaos that explores turbulent systems and complexity, where it has been clear for many years that it is not only about physics, meteorology or engineering, but also about human behaviour, organization, society, economy, politics, culture. Unfortunately, however, all these tools are used more for manipulation than for common good. As an example, we can mention Cambridge analyst, who was able to monitor her, who had a significant impact on the outcome of the elections in both America and England, in the elections. The big data algorithms, Facebook, Google, already know our desires and needs many times better than we are able to define them ourselves. Or neuromarketing, which can successfully bypass the defence mechanisms in our consumers' brains through military research results, so that people buy things we don't need with money we don't have. That's why we only borrow to impress other people we don't even like most. And science won't stop, the paradigm will have to adapt. This is life. Many successful organisations in their organisation and building internal and external relations benefit from the results of science, are aware of human needs for belonging, people want to be active and contribute to society. They need dignity and that they're productive. Believe that research clearly shows that no one wants to be a supporter, that it's not a choice, that's what they're forced to do. Let us also give our science a chance, I say that it is actively involved in projects to develop appropriate forms of organisation for the effective functioning of institutions and join European aspirations towards building a society in the spirit of European values and the European pillar of social rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Dr. Franz Duck, prepare yourself, Mr. Dushan Shisko. Mr. Vojko Starović, you don't have a word anymore, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you. He has fallen into so much debate, I understand, but in principle I agree with what he said, even though colleague Matjaž said what this has to do with the budget, but a little fax can also be falsified. I'd make the soldier a master's degree. But if we go back to the budget a little bit. If I translate a colleague, it's a crucial question whether you use technology and technological development and technology for the good of people or use it against them. This is a key issue that a person should also see through the budget. I didn't answer my colleague before because my time had run out. The vast majority of those seen by ordinary people as some of the craziest political decisions are taken at the level of sub-laws and regulations, which, my colleague, you may know as a former minister. And then, usually, Members of Parliament, we do that. When we tell you the burnout phone – what have we had before? Yeah, so we don't collect any more stoppers. And then I almost get thrown out of my hands by a cell phone, but you're crazy what the Members remember, up and down, because it's just communal, creamy, I'm going to tell the lobby not to use a worse word, somehow try to push it through the department department. Another question is, of course, why do we, hello, collect these stoppers? Although, this is an important matter, you know. In Berlin Alba goes first to the dump and sees which are the best plastics for recycling. You might know her from basketball. I would touch some of the things where usually Levico hangs out the most: Left is against security, Left is for that, as Sarec would say, that our boys and girls will walk around Afghanistan. Although, let's ask ourselves what we have to do in Afghanistan. Americans drag themselves out of Afghanistan after 40 years, have secret negotiations with the Taliban. This was cooked by a gentleman who was called Zbig, because otherwise they could not pronounce the Polish surname. We who are older remember that Rambo movie where the Taliban and the Rambo good guys are bad guys, and the Russians are bad guys. Of course, we're in Levica for security, but as part of the War – where is the security debate today? Do not insist that someone at the time of the first Janšev government has promised motorised battalions, not in some strategy for the development of Slovenian defence from 2005, which needs to be examined. And I'm not talking like that, you know. As a professor, in particular, I have read several Master's degree in the Prešern Prizes at the FDV, including a degree in defence counseling, including Janša's diploma, which I don't really know what, frankly, I have to say. The development of our security and defence structures should be considered in this direction. At one last meeting, Charec pointed out that the composition of the armed forces could be lower, smaller. We went to the professionalization of the military without going, to which the union has repeatedly warned us, into reflection of human resources policy. Our constitutional function is defensive, you know. If I say a little ugly, given what is happening to us in our neighbourhood, it must be our job to disable power distribution to all neighbouring countries as soon as possible, if they are delayed, so that some of Slovenia's visas will go, to have longer supply chains, to cut them off here, not to say anything, cojones. This is a matter that should be thought. It's a little bit of a cybernetic thing, up and down, and I've been dealing with it in my life. We also have a serious debate on this. We are actually looking forward to discussing what Morse needs, what the needs of the Slovenian Army are, from the state in which we are, but based, of course, on our constitution and the basic tasks of the Slovenian armed forces, not what Nat's generals do when the cameras go out. The man who went through the process of approaching Nate told me, you know, when the cameras go out, they're primarily merchants of their arms industry. It's also a subject we need to address. The topic we need to address is also our security and intelligence area. Based on some history of SDV, we have never seriously designed an internal security and intelligence service. However, if we had a bit of a German model for a constitutional protection office, it would not happen to us that a neighbouring country has an influence on the internal political situation in Slovenia and is funding a political party. There is in particular responsibility for SMC in the previous government. Comrade Brglez is now absent, he will now almost break on Facebook, but he has little forgotten that SMC Vice-President was in the previous government. I can honestly say that I told the other man of the Hungarian Embassy that if Left had been in the Government, the Ambassador, whom I greatly appreciate, would have already been called to Mladika. At a public meeting, I can say that if we had properly developed these services, if they had not been politically abused, there would not have been a story about the Chemical Institute. What I can no longer say in a public session, but we act as if this did not happen and what secret services from which part of the world are connected. We are basically unaware, Members and Members, most of you around, lobbying. We are a member of NATO, whether I like it or not, we are a member of the EU, whether I like it or not. As long as you're going to diplomatic receptions when I'm looking at you a little bit. If I go to see the budget of the Owl, that open part, that divisor, even to reveal the part, it's embarrassing. And I'm coming from the left. It is even more embarrassing that we have lost a generation and a half through buzzing, if not two generations of people, because the most intelligent people in some relatively small society have to work in such organisations. I often say in a joke that if the state-of-the-art of Slovenia were to go the right way, I would have been a member of the Owl for 30 years and probably one of the key people in analytics at present in Owl. We will also have to discuss these issues and discuss them in the following budgets. I also want to talk about these things in substance, but not in the way that some shabbazers use the media to beat the way Left is up against everything. The Left is against spending public money, it is against spending money from all five cash registers, but it is for serious debate on all of this, including an urgent serious debate on security and security structures and reforms of the Slovenian Army as such. But not in the way that this happened 2017, when someone pious desires are thrown into the public, that nothing will change. I don't like cutting into human rights, of course I don't like to start a debate on IMSI-catchers, but at the same time I do know that Slovenian criminal associations and Italian and Balkan and also part of Slovenian politics have them. Good morning, good day, but what more principles will we have at a closed session, we will initially involve experts, involve civil society, include civil control, and consider whether Knovs is as appropriate. No, because there is no one in Knovs who has been in both arms affairs, cannot be presided over by someone who is too light of prey, lobbyist of the German arms industry and so on. And now you're a little surprised, and my lefties are probably surprised because I wanted to say that. Because we also need to start and include these serious topics in the next budget and, more importantly, in the human resources development of these areas. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško has the floor, prepare for Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u97	President, thank you for your word. I have already discussed infrastructure today, but now I will touch on education, science, sport and youth. As we know, the 2019 draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, compared with the 2019 budget adopted by the Republic of Slovenia, is planning to increase the maximum budget expenditure on education and sport policy by €103.2 million, immediately for social security. It is also estimated that the revenue from the EU Structural Funds will be realised in the year at a total of €434.8 million, representing 43% of the total revenue. This seems extremely important to me – to invest in research and development, the education system and the training system for a faster transition to the labour market. This is how the European Social Fund directs its investments to people where it focuses mainly on improving employment and education opportunities across the European Union. We are aware that the inflows in the budget depend on the dynamics in the implementation of projects. I think there could be more of these projects. If they were better prepared, there would be more. I was also struck by the fact that transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions planned in the draft balance sheet amounting to €141.7 million have been reduced by €13.5 million and 8.7%, according to the 2019 budget adopted. I do not know why there has been a reduction in funds, but if there are the most of these funds among the others intended to employ unemployed persons and the ultimate sport programme. Is it not in your interest that we have as many working people as possible to give as little money for social assistance as possible from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? Do you prefer to support sloths who lie at home and steal time from God? As far as sports are concerned, our best seem to have retired, even though we would like to show our knowledge to new generations. I am interested in the following. The Regulation on co-financing of the implementation of the State-level annual sport programme provides for the implementation of a public tender to co-finance the programmes of municipal sector sports schools to which municipalities may run. It is co-financed by a professionally educated trainer who is employed in a sports society for the implementation of sports education programmes for children and youth focused on quality and excellence sport, at 40%, 40% must be provided by the municipality and 20% by sport society. The co-financing will take place on the basis of a call for proposals, to be called upon by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. I don't know why you're waiting for this call, so I urge you to support our young perspective sports talents and offer them what they need to be able to shine again in the field of sport. Let's not put this in the pool or at the expense of cutting funds, because there's somewhere else to save. Let us not forget that the young world is standing. Last but not least, sport represents an area in which the benefits of the country can be realized through achievements at international level, such as visibility on the outside. Of course, when they win medals, politics is right next to it and it is painted next to those who have won medals. This is really a picture of politics. What I think is a huge lapsus is the fact that the funds in the adopted budget for 2019 have been too low, so the funds for public institutions are planned to amount to €692.2 million. The most funds are expected to be allocated to primary education, secondary education, higher education and higher education. It seems to me that €184.3 million is intended for science and the information society, while the remainder is dedicated to financing adult education activities, sports and infrastructure institutions. At this point, I would also like him to devote more time to sports institutions than to adult education. As we have seen slightly back in the analysis of the implementation of the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2020 for the period 2014-2016, the most critical part of the involvement of adults in lifelong education or learning is to be considered. In this respect, Slovenia deviates negatively from the EU average. The development programme plan 2019-2022 shows that the percentage of implementation was 79 % during the 2011-2020 funding period, where the project was worth €53.5 million. The 2019 plan thus fell from EUR 6 million 109.99 million to EUR 4 million 800. I don't know why. But I can tell you, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support the rebalance, respected colleagues and colleagues, even though we are not and will not require any signed document.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Masha Kociper, the word is yours, but prepare yourself, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much, President. Much has been said about this budget today, and about what is in it, about what should be. I myself have had the opportunity to discuss this on behalf of the Group of Members, but I would still like to give a few more reflections. Just as I teach my clients in mediation, it is with every compromise that no one is fully satisfied with it, and the compromise must be such that it is possible to live with it. With this budget ahead of us, Alenka Bratušek and I can personally live without any problems. Of course, we would like to see something written down differently, that someone has been given more, less, even in the group of Members, some would give priority to something else, others to the third party. But politics, like any field of human negotiation, is one where we have to find ourselves somewhere in the middle. At the outset, once again, Alenka Bratušek, our Group supports this balance. We believe he is good, and we believe he is responding appropriately to the current situation. True, depending on what kind of government we have and what time we are in, it is a little more social, we can also say left-handed, but that does not seem to be the case. I was in another government years ago when we had to take very unpopular measures that people didn't like, and we did because it was necessary. But now that sustained economic growth is already six years old, since 2014 when our President, Alenka Bratušek, has led the government and when this economic growth is above average, it is right, as it is said, that the budget is also oriented in this direction and that some of it is given to individuals, that is, natural persons who may have been seriously depriving themselves in recent years. I would like to recall once again the situation in France where deprived people end up going to the streets and resisting some government that may not be bad in principle, which wants everything together, but at one point people get to the top and then resist and then the price of such resistance can be very high for every country and for every government. There's something else I'd like to point out, even if some people have already said so. The rebalancing and, of course, every time the budget is always a thought for the future, some direction for the government, how it will work in the future, and also some kind of reflection. It bothers me that sometimes in this process too it is stressed as if everything is wrong in Slovenia. As if there is an urgent need to change this and that, as a matter of urgency, one and a third, it suffers, it dies and so on. Of course, many people do not live well and there is always time and opportunity for change. But in our client, Alenka Bratušek, we are for some reasonable steps, some changes in the existing system against improvement, not for some revolution. We still live in an extremely regulated country where we have a high level of social security, where we have a clean environment and so on, where we have excellent kindergartens, one of the best in the world, good public education – changes are needed here too, but we can still teach children in our country for free. And there's a bunch of pluses that we all know, and we should remember them more than once. On the other hand, I say, change yes, but considerate. On the one hand, we may have a right-wing policy that would go one way, but on the other hand, we have a left-wing policy, which also sometimes has very radical proposals. For us who think of ourselves as the middle party, neither the right nor the left populism is good. For both of us, it bothers me most when they ask questions about the most basic things, the most basic institutions, democracy, some practice of democracy that have been established in the world, and they wonder whether that is right. For me, it is a problem if, at these moments, as we now have in history, when even wars may be at stake, some question the existence of the European Union and speak here as to how everything is wrong in the European Union and everything should be changed and practically everything started and sent home. Or even NATO, we can have different opinions, we can agree that everything is not all right there as well, we can agree that they are getting caught up in where they don't need to be. But as revolutionary as it is to bridge with everything that's been going on for years and years as a democracy, like some undisputed development that hasn't led to war in so many years, it seems very controversial to me. I think we all live very well together in our country. I think it is our job to make this better, to listen to those who are vulnerable groups, to those who really need help to listen to those who produce, and to find a middle way. Even with entrepreneurs, it doesn't bother me when they talk about what their needs are and what would be good for their economy or their businesses, that's all right, it confuses me when they threaten to leave the country. Yes, then go ahead. If it is so easy to leave your country, then I suggest not only that the headquarters move, but that they go with the whole family to live where they move their company's seat. And on the other hand, young people who are leaving – thank God they are leaving to learn new things. But many, even personally, come back later because they know that the quality of life in Slovenia when you have small children when you need kindergarten when you need school is unmatched with many countries where they have gone to the world for knowledge and money. So I would like a little more optimism, a little less intimidation, there are crises, and always, if we are smart, we will be able to respond to them and accept them as a challenge. I'd like more understanding. If the rebalancing itself is difficult to bring together within the coalition, I hope the opposition can understand that then any additional amendment can be a major problem. You ran the government yourself, and you know it. And I would like all of us to find solutions together through dialogue for a better future for all of us and, as we say, to appreciate what we have, but to make a reasonable effort to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you for your position, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič, prepare yourself, Mr. Edward Paulic. Madam Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. A nice hello to you all! The balance of the budget must be adopted due to the substantially changed circumstances that have already been listed several times today. Each ministry acquired funds through the rebalancing of the 2019 budget. In particular, I would like to highlight only some areas: the economy, infrastructure, the environment, which confirms the developmental orientation of the balance, then socialism, which confirms the social and social note, agriculture, which we must help him to live better, and so do all of us, on the basis of a better situation in agriculture. The former government, namely the Government of Mira Cerar, has taken care of the stabilisation of public finances, the promotion of economic growth, the protection of existing jobs and the promotion of new ones. After years of crisis and uncertainty, the well-being and quality of people's lives have increased again. It has successfully reduced its public financial debt and, after many years, reached a public financial surplus. Now that the crisis is over, although some warn us with a new one, it is time for people to feel these achievements in their pockets. The expectations of our citizens and citizens are rightly high. At a time when we have high economic growth, an economically favourable environment, when the labour market is on the rise, when more people have jobs when unemployment is falling, it is normal that people's expectations are high. Therefore, it is right for more young people to receive scholarships, child allowances to pay 100 per cent of the maternity allowance, that social assistance for those unable to work is higher. But we will also have to talk about how we will encourage people to work in value and that it is important to be employed. It will also be possible to raise the minimum wage and further attract new investors, which will also raise the salaries of other employees. Since 2019, virtually all austerity measures in the area of family transfers and transfers of the most vulnerable individuals and households have been eliminated. Slovenia therefore remains a social state and also a country with one of the most favourable family policies of the European Union. The fiscal world and some economists point to too high public spending. While it is explained that there is no need for saving in an environmentally favourable economic situation, however, the government should be more cautious in the planning of public finances and also in the light of the forecast of economic growth. Nevertheless, the rebalancing follows two key objectives. This is the achievement of the budgetary surplus and the reduction of public debt. The current finance minister has repeatedly responded with firmness to the warnings of the Fiscal Council. I will summarize it very simply: if we give people more, they will also spend more, and the state treasury will get back on the taxes. As an economist, I can agree with him, but we also have to be citizens in our own country, that is, spending at home in Slovenia. Then we'll all be better off. Above all, let us be responsible for ourselves and our health. Especially when buying food. We all remember several weeks of long-lasting agony about meat from Poland. If we buy domestically, locally, we will have a positive impact on several factors, on better economic development, agricultural development, better own health, better rural development, tourism and countries in general. The Fiscal Council also assesses that 2019 needs to be used to prepare and adopt measures that address the long-term challenges, in particular in relation to demographic change, and to contribute to the sustainable structural improvement of public finances and to increasing economic potential. These are certainly the challenges that await us this year. Since more of you have spoken about health care, I will touch only one item in the budget rebalancing, this is the Ptuj Emergency Centre, for which 3.4 million euros are foreseen for the next two years, which will be insufficient after years of preparation and price rise for construction services, so that this item will need to be increased in 2020. Each of us, both members of the coalition and the opposition, have proposals for additions, but of course there is no money for all wishes. Every bag has a bottom that we're aware of. As has already been said today, we must act as a team, as a team, if we want to be successful, and so will I act and support the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Edward Paulic, prepare yourself, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that much has already been said on the subject of the rebalancing today, I will focus on some facts that seem important to me. In the last 23 years, the budget surplus has only been recorded in 2017 and 2018. We are also following this trend in 2019 as the budget rebalancing foresees a surplus of 0.4% of GDP. Another important information is the trend in reducing public debt. We are among the more successful countries in the EU, and only Ireland is more successful. Public debt will fall to 66% of GDP in 2019 and below 60 percentage points within two to three years. It is true that the fiscal rule does not fully comply with us, according to the Fiscal Council, there is a difference of €270 million, so in my opinion it is crucial that we spend additional resources efficiently, transparently and in a way that increases the competitiveness and resilience of the Slovenian economy, while at the same time not neglecting the social component. Data for the euro area show that in 2019 12 out of 19 countries will show a structural deficit. The balance of the budget thus represents a compromise between the stability of public finances and the development direction and the social policy of the country. In the rebalancing, the biggest increase in resources is aimed at the following policies: social security, education and sport, environmental protection and infrastructure, housing, transport and transport infrastructure, entrepreneurship and competitiveness. One of the key priorities of the Government is science, as it creates competitiveness and added value in the long term. Science funds amount to €268 million, of which there are more than 200 million. This follows a coalition commitment to increase R & D funding to 1% of GDP. In 2019, these funds will amount to 0.69% of GDP and are higher by 0.16 percentage points of GDP in terms of 2018. To conclude, the proposed budget balance represents a compromise between the social and development policies of the country and I will therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Miha Kordish, prepare yourself, Mr. Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, chairman. Previously, from the right branch of the National Assembly, it has been heard that those who are willing to support this budget are explaining or explaining that it is the best budget in the history of this country and some similar witnesses — I will not say anything like that in any way. But I will argue that this budget balance is better than its predecessor. And it's better than budgets in the past government. We could sit here until tomorrow if we went into a detailed cut of items by individual ministries, so I will only point out five measures. Commencement in the field of social affairs. This provides funds for the coordination of transfers to individuals and households, at least contributing minimally to improving the material situation of the weakest segments of this company, namely those of the most disadvantaged, most disadvantaged sectors of the working class. In addition, funds are provided for the additional coordination of pensions and thus contribute to the minimum increase in pensions. Under the third point, I would point out increased funding for municipalities which have been on short notice for short periods of under-financing, while the state is transferring more and more powers to them and imposing more and more tasks on them, and, of course, the money does not follow. This budget, or this balance, at least partially eliminates this. Come in. A very important breakthrough has been made in the salaries of public servants, the salaries of public servants, teachers, teachers, nurses and nurses, and this budget has increased and additional funds have been allocated to this increase. After all, funding for scientific research activities is also being raised by EUR 24.5 million. Why did I say it wasn't about the best budget? But there are quite a few items in it that bother us in Levica. And they bother me personally, too, because for Levi, I cover the area of defense in this National Assembly. We went to the national elections with some fundamental requirements, programming points. One of these requirements, the programming points, was the cancellation of the purchase of military material to form 1.2 billion euro of the heavy two medium-sized battalion groups. This is a requirement of NATO, this is also a consensus of the political class in this country – that we must build these two medium-sized battalion groups. Of course it is not about strengthening the Slovenian Army as a Slovenian army, some defence force that would help in the country, but it is about further transformation of the Slovenian Army into an expedition corps, into NATO liaison auxiliary units, which can respond quickly and spread across the entire earth. But, excuse me, Slovenian soldiers on the other side of the world don't defend their homeland. They're defending the interests of American oil multinationals, for example. The army that does this, the army that is equipped for this, the army that is trained for this, we do not need it in this country! Every euro, every cent involved in arming an offensive, occupying army, is always lost for those items that would strengthen the well-being of Slovenian citizens and citizens. The items, military items in this budget are therefore problematic but less problematic than they could be. 350 million euros. That's what the next step is supposed to be in equipping and preparing the two middle battalion groups I've been talking about. I'm talking about the acquisition of eight-wheelers. The purchase of these eight-wheelers was cancelled, and it was withdrawn. And suddenly, behind this budget, or in the country, if you want, in its public mall, 350 million euros, which can then be redeployed by other ministries and by other items, which, as it is said, service prosperity, also service the development of this country. I am very glad that this cancellation of military supplies has been negotiated, that it has happened and that we do not see it in the budget as something that would be immediately on the horizon. I think that this is a remarkable achievement and a remarkable establishment from the naked servitude of connection, then in that at least at the peak of the conjuncture it is considering how a working class in that country lives, what needs it has in the field of education, what needs it has in the field of infrastructure to come from place A to place B, what needs it has in the social field when it is out of work and even when it has to run to a doctor for medical care. The fragments of this transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces into a two-middle battalion group remain in this budget. I'm saying bits because we're talking about 20 million within 32 million Euros of heavy purchase of armor 4 x 4 Oshkosh. This is less than 10% of the amount of 350 million that would go for the purchase of eight-wheelers, yes, it is a significantly smaller amount, the amount that the Slovenian budget in a konjunctural situation can consume. I am, you know, very biting, bit by these armored men, because, like their eight-wheeled cousins, they are still designed to operate abroad and are not adapted to Slovenian conditions, they are too wide to drive on Slovenian forest roads. But they're not too wide, of course, but they're fantastically suited to cruise through the deserts of the Middle East. Here I think the budget has been down for these 32 or, in particular, for 2019, 20 million euros. But if I put on one side of this remaining 20 or 32 million euros, and on the other side on the measures that coalition parties in partnership with Levi are supposed to implement by the end of this year, it is clear what will prevail – to take serious measures to seriously address the problem of low pensions, not just by half a percentage, but 0.2%, but to undertake pension reform, but not in the way that pension reform has been done so far, to continuously reduce the percentage of the rate of work to increase the working time, to reduce the rate of contribution for capital, not to approach the issue of pensions from the reverse direction of how people from their active work will receive more, to live more securely. If I put these two on the scale, then these 4 x 4 shells suddenly become something that I can swallow and such a budget then also support under the promise of an agreement that we are supposed to sign tomorrow, and measures that are supposed to happen in the future. I'd stop at one more point now that I might be talking more about the welfare to focus now on development. The budget provides for direct development resources to the Slovenian economy. This is a measure that we are certainly defending in Levica, and we are also constantly using two markers of prosperity and development. It is, however, a question of how these funds are used. The good thing about this budget is that compared to the existing budget adopted for 2019, it reduces private enterprise subsidies by €32 million at the same time as it increases public enterprise subsidies by €9 million. This is a welcome change. Unfortunately, the country will still spend €445 million and €117 million more than last year on private enterprise subsidies in 2019 after the rebalancing. By comparison, only €59 million for public enterprise subsidies. Again, the scale of these funds alone is not problematic, but these funds must be used in a wise way not only to infuse the most non-productive sectors of the Slovenian economy, which live solely on state subsidies, which live solely on the employment of workers or workers, employ workers on minimum wages and are not prepared to invest in development alone, are not prepared to treat their employees with respect. These funds are much better spent, if you want, on the economy in a way that the state will become the owner of these companies, and then co-ownership will use the share to further encourage businesses in the direction of development and also in the direction of labour participation, towards economic democracy. In this way, the use of public funds as direct subsidies in the economy is welcome. However, if it is just some relief, just some investment incentives, which in the end do not prove to be, but it is only some private individuals who, for their profits, are outsourced some of the regular costs of public funds, and I think that in such a case, such budget items certainly do not achieve their purpose, but only work within the lobbyist framework. And here I think it's crystallized in one item the most important element of how to drive in this country's development. Are we going to throw money with a shovel to some private person and hope that something good will grow out of it, or are we going to direct it with thought, fully aware that only investments can lead to development in a higher value added, in a way that the structure of the Slovenian economy emerges from its subordinate role, from the role of the German sub-contractor? That's the key. Will we build our production chains, concluded, have the final products of high value added, which, in a global context, will be able to capture values and compete with final products, or will we have such a distributed, commercial economy to which political establishment has brought it, especially intensively in the last 15 years, which is able only to service with the semi-produced German industry? All of this is crystallized in this item. And here I think that the government within the Slovenian political class of consensus, which, I hope, exactly with this budget, could begin to break. Therefore, we must reduce taxes on capital, reduce environmental restrictions, eliminate labour rights in order to create a favourable business environment to attract foreign investors, and join a group of so-called multi-urban countries that are already doing so. Ladies and gentlemen, Members, Members, this is not a development strategy, this is a strategy for underdevelopment! And the representatives of the Government who will implement this budget, who will be those who will hold hands with little more direct attention, but I call on them to think damn well about how little they are opening up and where they spend their money on subsidising the economy. But surely, with half a billion euros of our total public money in the form of subsidies in the pockets of a private economy, I expect not to pay any self-proclaimed entrepreneur, a self-proclaimed economist, when he steps in front of the cameras and says, this ugly swallowing state, I mean, with taxes he collects everything I have created. Because if that were true, then, as it were said, half a billion euro of a heavy item would not be a direct subsidy to the economy in this budget. Yes, it is. Nobody created anything on their own. Each product and every state budget is the final result of our collective collective work and should be treated accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Igor Peček has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have heard a lot today and also in previous discussions on the content and weight of the rebalancing or budget for 2019, which is, of course, entirely appropriate and appropriate given that the preparation of the budget itself is extremely complex. However, at least in my opinion, we all have one key question that is how to realistically assess the sustainability of both the budget and the balance. We do it so much harder, they do it with a little less knowledge, but it's even harder to see it in the light of our citizens, who, by paying taxes and contributions, are filling our treasury and, of course, the state budget. On the one hand, we have an assessment of the Fiscal Council, which warns against the consequences of non-compliance with the fiscal rule, which they consider to be tragic, and also points out that to some extent it is a violation of the law. Findings on a sustained increase in expenditure, while the sustainability of revenue cannot be guaranteed so unilaterally, of course pose a risk and must be taken seriously and taken into account. Several times it has been said that in previous years we have recorded deficits in budgets. The exceptions are 2017, 2018 and this year, when we show an surplus of 200 million in the budget. Which means we're going to create more than we're going to spend, and that, I think, is going to take full account of this evaluation. The revenue assessment is also based on an economic growth assessment, for 2018 and for the end of 2018, but we all know and realize that this assessment has also taken account of a certain decline. It is also necessary to take into account that the debt of the State is declining, thus also reducing indirect public debt servicing, which has also been mentioned, otherwise it has been said that this is 800 million and ended with a dot, but it has not been said that this has been more than 1 billion in the past. And I think we can view that as positive. And now what I personally think is most important when we assess the sustainability of this budget. In the introduction to our discussion, the colleague stressed or in some way challenged us: “What is the rate of economic growth that still ensures the financial sustainability of this budget?” We used to play with the number 3.1, 3.3, maybe it's even a lower point, not even a point, while colleague Bandelli stopped at 3.5, and we all know or know what 1% means or how much money is. In our country, however, I think that even in no country, no one is excited about paying taxes and contributions. It is understandable, however, that we all expect the greatest possible benefits from public expenditure, both from the state budget and from all three cash registers as well as from the state sector. In fact, the responsibility of managing the funds lies with us, and with our policy and with those who directly manage this public money. I am also convinced and it has been pointed out that the competent ministries will also proceed and continue to seek savings and reserves within given numbers, which have somehow increased to all, with rare exceptions, even in the light of the fact that this forecast of economic cooling, I would still be held back by the word recession, could mean a certain decline in economic growth and thus even lower revenues. It has also been made clear that the budget is not development-oriented. However, we have all come to understand in the budget that a number of development projects are both on railway infrastructure, on road infrastructure, to anticipate investments and to build renewable resources, including limited hydropower plants on the Sava River, a solar power plant. So it's really not right to say that the budget is missing the development point. Our model of state is also based on a certain principle of solidarity, as has been said in several debates. The active generation is the one that pays various taxes and contributions to public cash registers and thus provides security for all, including children, pensioners and all stakeholders in this society. If all I can do in the end is summarize. In addition to all that we have already said, where we have given more, it seems to me that it is very important in this assessment that we have made more use of science, research and development, that we have made more of a commitment to the development of entrepreneurship, which will also help us in some way to maintain economic growth, which will not depend on us alone, but on us all, I am sure, we are aware that what is happening in the field of economy and trade, both in the narrow European area and in the global space, affects all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Jože Lenart, and as the last to prepare yourself, Mr Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministries, thank you for coming with us. I am pleased that you have returned to the bench of Comrade Pogačnik, Comrade Logar, because it usually happens to me when I want to speak to the opposition, there are empty benches on this side. After eight months in Parliament, it is finally clear to me that we have not only a left and a right policy in Slovenia, but also two extreme economies that are solving the same problems, but have completely different approaches, at least in theory, as is evident today. It is fortunate that this government is central and we are looking for the best among these extremes. I'm glad to be in this government. You know, when I was three years old, I hurt my daughter to clean up her toys. My daughter says, "Daddy, you're not going to command me, I've got my brains, and I know what I have to do!" And she did. So, dear colleagues, trust in new faces, in a new wind. We decided in LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB, Desus and also in Levica to run the 48-round marathon for 48 months of this government. And before this government was formed, I ran 48 laps myself and made sure I was ready. You've got to be ready for the long run. You have to go through every circle at a certain rate, or else he picks you up. For long runs you have to prepare for years and years on shorter and longer routes. Before the elections, you said we were losers. You said the election, and they won't even start. When we started, you said we wouldn't go three, five, ten kilometers. And we're just running around, and we're gonna complete some team member. We are running for Slovenia, Slovenia in Europe. Our presentations are in the core, solid and healthy center. In our presentations on the budget, I do not see any mask as has been said here today, but on the contrary, we have taken off the mask. But you talk about overblown shells all the time, and you talk very little about a healthy and solid core, or I haven't noticed at all that you could use your finger to show if there's any unhealthy grain in the core. I see your discussions as talking about the shell, but I don't know if you see anything in this shell. You don't want to talk about the core or you can't talk about it? You may not understand our balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, given the fear you are expressing. Of course, this is hard to understand, because we are a new wind, we have a new approach. We are investing back in the development of the economy, in human beings, in health care, in culture, in the environment, in social life, despite having a third lower tax in Slovenia for foreigners. Our workers for foreign companies are working for a minimum wage, so we have only EUR 2 000 per capita per capita per capita per capita per capita, and Germany has EUR 4 000. No, the opposition, it will not be like this anymore, we will no longer hold back, we will no longer be servants, but equal members of the European Union. The European Commission itself reminds us that we have too low capital taxes, and raise them already once, they say you can live better. You know, with your proposals for a bill and an amendment that would lower the budget for a billion 580 million, this shell you're talking about would have broken a long time ago. I've told you so many times in this room, but you still don't understand and repeat your same, frightening, yet professionally flawed theories. And it's in front of the public on camera. There will be a lot of training to be done in this area. Colleagues and colleagues, let us work and not hinder us for the good of this country. And let us all not forget, the budget will fill the economy, and our responsibility is to share fairly and rationally. Do not be afraid, this government will bear responsibility for its actions in good and bad. Of course, bad times will come. And that's what we're getting ready for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word, Mr. Predrag. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's a replica. Mr. Logar Ange, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you, President. I have repeatedly said that the words here in the National Assembly are obviously cheap, but it is necessary to be honest. Now I've listened to Mr Lenart, where he's pointing at the opposition, throwing pollen, warning us about a catastrophic scenario, talking against this budget or the budget rebalancing. I don't know if Comrade Lenart reads or doesn't want to read. I think it has been made clear here that there is no opposition to the one that criticises the balance of the budget. It's the fiscal world. So do not confuse and accuse the opposition of what is lying if you do not hope or know how to face the criticism given to you by the Fiscal Council. I'll tell you again what the Fiscal Council says about this budget balance that you so praise. I quote: "The proposed budget documents for 2019 indicate an expansionary fiscal policy, which is inadequate under the circumstances, leads to an unnecessary structural deterioration of the state of public finances," says the Fiscal Council. And, “this delays the opportunity to create a good manoeuvre space in good times to mitigate the negative effects of economic cooling in the future.” That's not what the opposition said, it's black and white written in the Fiscal Council's opinion. Let's accept that. If the Minister is planning a budget poorly, not because you would be central, but because you have submitted to the votes of the Left, you do not have a central policy – it has also been made clear before that the Left is the one who is heading towards 350 million for this or that – that is, because you are buying their votes, you are deciding on such a policy. Accept your own responsibility. Look here you have a SNS that gives you four votes in the first year without having one white man charge you for it. Without one condition, they criticised the budget, and they announced support. And you're signing a special agreement with Levica, giving her super-coality power in this way, and criticizing the opposition here. And compared to not being able to convince even a three-year-old daughter as a father, you stand here to convince even the nation or all the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but it points to the fact that, in fact, the levers you have and the tasks assigned to you are not entirely justified. It's a once-in-a-lifetime [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u112	Member, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u113	A critical opinion is the opinion of the Fiscal Council. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u114	It's not possible to replicate the replica. [[advertising from the hall]] This replica is possible, but later it is possible to get a vote in the redistribution of votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u115	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I am now convinced that this criticism, which has flown by Mr Lenart to Members and Members of the SDS, is probably unjustified. Whether you did not listen to the debate that we had, whether you did not listen to our point of view, or whether you were saying something in your mind. We simply said that we will not support the proposal for a budget rebalancing. I don't know why the opposition should support it at all costs. But we're not going to argue. However, we have said certain indications, which we do have on this budget. I am of the opinion that, as an opposition Member, I can express my opinion on your balance. But you are now in your ten-minute debate without defending the budget that you have, because we thought today that by discussing certain concerns that we have in relation to the preparation of the budget balance, you would say, with some positive arguments you would persuade us to do so, but you will attack us, in ten minutes you attacked the SDS Group alone. And Dr Logar's colleague has already told you who has the most criticism of this budget – the Fiscal Council and the European Commission. And we have argued that we do not accept the budget rebalancing or budget due to Brussels bureaucracy, we accept it because of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You must tell why you have not yet prepared the 2020 budget rebalancing and why the Fiscal Council cannot therefore prepare the medium-term sustainability of the budget. You're behind, not us. You have a government, you have to work. But you have the form of Deli and rule. We only said that this time when Slovenia could make or your government needed the reforms that Slovenia needs. And in our opinion, there is a pension and health reform here. The questions were, however, only compared to 2015 and with the rebalancing of 2019, 500 million more expenditure on public institutions. Thank the economy, you have not taken any action. The economy is the one that keeps you. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The replica can't be replicated, I'll point it out again. There is also the next round of voice-sharing. As the last in this round, you have the word Mr Predrag Bakovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u117	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Perhaps I too would like to get involved in the last two discussions or replicas. Look, when we witnessed in previous sessions an invasion of the opposition's investments, I kind of naively believed that this was a good wish, for the good of the people and the state, but today's debate convinced me that it wasn't exactly that. And if the opposition at the last sessions has filed the Income Tax Act, the Parental Protection Act and Family Benefits Act, the Household Supplement Act, the Income Act for the first time, the Income Act for the second time, the Firearms Act, the Kindergarten Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and what else do I know which laws to empty the Treasury well, you are concerned about the warnings of the Fiscal Council. Your bill proposals at the time had a financial impact of over a billion euros, and today you are concerned about a 270 million-million-dollar warning from the Fiscal Council. This year's rebalancing will be a record, which means there will be a surplus of €193 million, and this will be the first time we have achieved such a surplus. After many years of budget deficits, it was not until 2017 that we reached the first minimum nominal surplus, also last year. Thus, this year's budget surplus is planned at 0.4% as compared to GDP. At the same time, it is important to stress that at the same time we are in debt. A lot of other countries in the European Union have rather high budget deficits, some even raise debt. Slovenia has achieved two important objectives through this budget rebalancing: we are showing a budgetary surplus, but at the same time we are deliberating. We have also put part of the surplus aside for bad times, not as much as the Fiscal Council has recommended, but we have done so in contrast to previous years. Part of the surplus is earmarked for social categories and science. I think it is right that we have spent some of our resources on people, because we are all together already fed up with constant savings in all these years. And if we are already showing economic growth, it is only right that some of this comes directly from people. When I remember the last crisis, when economic experts and the media were often critical that we should spend more money on bad times in pre-crisis times, i.e. at a time of conjunction, and that we didn't do it then, or you didn't. Also at that time, we did not devote money to people, because neither alone nor the people around me did we ever feel that the conjuncture was ever at all. That is why it is right for people to turn now. Of course, we should not forget, however, that we are one of the most successful countries in the Eurogroup, but I do, of course, also have local communities, from which I come, great expectations both this year and above all in the years to come. In the municipality of Kočevje and Ribnica, for example, we face major problems in providing preschool education. After the economic breakthrough in Kočev, but this is already happening in Ribnica, it is expected to increase the number of inhabitants, so we are facing spatial distress in kindergartens. Despite the new kindergarten, additional departments are urgently needed in Ribnica, and we also urgently need a new kindergarten in Kočev. This is necessary because already two units have a decision to close the kindergarten by the competent inspector, that is, due to the length of the facility. This means that 80 families could be left without protection in the congregation. It is probably not necessary to explain what this would mean in a vulnerable environment such as Kočevje, which is still dealing with lower added value to the employee than the Slovenian average and higher unemployment rate. And the state budget will have to be directed in this direction so that municipalities with such problems will have priority in solving these problems. Also in Kočev and Ribnica, we are not satisfied with the timetable for the completion of the Kočevska track, which has lingered for 19 months, until passenger traffic has been established. In view of the fact that 2 000 500 people drive daily from these parts to Ljubljana, I can tell you how burdened this road is and, of course, it is also dangerous. A faster establishment of passenger transport on the railway would certainly help unload the road. And if we think about preventing a lot of traffic accidents, preserving some kind of life, that should be the priority of the competent ministry and the state. The budget must be even more focused on updating the infrastructure. In Kočevska we still do not have regulated broadband connections, that I am not even talking about roads. In the 21st century, we still have some macadamical, local and state roads, which, of course, cannot be very proud of us. Many asphalted roads are also in extremely poor condition and should be at least covered. One of these is definitely Stahlceri–Kočevska river-Gotenica, during the summer season this road becomes extremely burdened by tourists who manage the route towards the sea. In view of the development programme plan 2019-2022, it also poorly shows importers Kočevje, Ribnica and Velika Lašče, as the construction of these projects is planned after 2022. This means that there will then be a new government, new priorities, and the situation can still be reversed. Of course, I do not want all the bonds to be made immediately, but most importantly, and this is the importer by the Fishery, it should be a priority somehow. It is too much to lose words at the Škofljica Oblast, where, of course, everyone, except those who are going to work in Ljubljana, corresponds to the restrictions both because of Nature 2000 and because of the butterfly or now the dark funk, but nothing is moving here, should be. Finally, more resources should also be allocated to the security sector. It still has security challenges both in the area of migration and in the area of Roma issues. Therefore, it would indicate more resources to be allocated in this area as well. But despite the challenges that lie ahead, I must say that the rebalancing is quite optimal. By achieving some of the priorities that I have outlined, the lives of people would be more tolerant and quality. That is why I refer these problems to all the competent ones to try to find solutions within individual departments for those challenges that are most pressing, and that is why I will also support the budget's rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Do you want another round of votes or do you want to move on? Okay, we'll re-enter the list. We're starting with the reports. Thank you. We have two reports. You have the first word, Mr Jože Lenart, to prepare Mr Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Once again, I find that we have two extreme economies in this National Assembly. I would like to, Comrade Pogačnik and Logar, to respect you in principle, and I was very happy to have you here in a hurry so that we can talk like this, and this is not an attack on my part, which I have said is what I stand for, because individuals have discussed in this direction, as I have mentioned. It is only the Fiscal Council and the European Commission, which has given an opinion, but I see 80% of the positive findings in these opinions and other experts as well. This even makes him feel sorry for himself and has been commended. I don't know why we're missing this. We see only a Circus of 20% of the warnings they said the government must respond to, and the government has responded professionally and very clearly to these risk recommendations. And we made it clear that we accept such warnings. Each government must and this government has said it will react and reacts to these risks, which the previous governments are not. And that's all I wanted to remind you of, that's what I'm saying, that we can't say anything black in front of the public if it's not black. I have to be honest with each other, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u120	It's a replica. Mr. Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u121	Yeah, I'm saying, well, the document needs to be read. Here's my opinion of the Fiscal Council. Starts sentence in summary, summary of everything, Fiscal Council, first sentence: »The proposal for a state budget rebalancing and already adopted framework for the preparation of the budget of the state sector indicate an expansion and procyclical fiscal policy for 2019. According to the Fiscal Council, this is inappropriate in the current circumstances.” And then in the rest of the paragraphs, equally, not 20% of the criticism, but the criticism of the matter. Unlike Mr Lenart, I respect Mr Lenart and he only respects me in principle. Look, that's the main difference. As I respect the opinion of the Fiscal Council, I do not respect it in principle, but respect it no matter what it says, and no matter what function I take, either in opposition or coalition. And until the Members win this, that institutions must respect when they give an opinion, but not relativize them, if they go against your position, that is how long Mr Lenart will have to report on the round of debates and say that everything is good and that only the opposition points to bad. That is not true, the Fiscal Council, in its first sentence, makes clear its position on this budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your replica. You have the floor, Mr. Jani Ivanus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u123	Mr President, because I didn't mean to advertise, but I even wanted to replicate the debate of the last debaters or whatever, I decided to re-engage in the debate because I wanted to replicate Mr Kordiš because how he started discussing 500 million subsidies in the economy, I would ask him to speak a little more respectfully about our economy, our tradesmen, at least those who contribute to this treasury. [[…]] For the 500 that are created are created by the economy, not by us, but by the economy. And even that 500 million then the politics says where they're going, who's going to subsidize. A little bit more respectful of this segment in our country, because they were already scared months ago about what's going to happen to capital, in fact, that somehow capital will be taxed, but we'll see what the numbers say. That's what I'd ask him to do, at least a little respectable about it. Then he talked about 350 million left of the boxers to move here now to other ministries. I don't believe this story. The defense will suffer in some way in the long run. If we want to have this Slovenian Army, once again, I stress, we need to wear and wear, not bare bare bare shoes. According to him, we'll be naked and bare. But I would have given him that as an example, his Venezuelan, if not for Mr Maduro to have this army, was long gone, so little for the intermezza. I'll be in touch with the 34 amendments that we tabled on Saturday on the Committee on Finance, and we have even proposed two. There were 800 million transfers here, nothing else. I think the amendments were very good, even though they were only from the opposition. We had in mind one road at Krka and a cultural heritage to strengthen and, of course, to take away the migrant office – that is to say, we have foreigners, and we do not have when it comes to giving to our people. Mr Lenart should still replicate it, even though Mr Logar has corrected it well. All he did was attack the opposition with his speech. I'm part of the opposition, too, and I feel hurt. As he said, the Fiscal Council, the State Council, the European Union, all are criticising this budget, and even though the budget will be adopted, it is clear that we have also said that we will support it, because we want to give a year of time, in September the government was adopted, a year of time, to show these systemic changes, which are so predicted. Otherwise, I will see what time will show, because, as we quickly made overnight, minimum wage, taxation, so to speak, raise the minimum wage – and what have we found? We kicked in the fog, in our own words, because of this, it will be only the state and the minister himself has admitted that 35 million will run more from this title. By doing a lot of wrongs in the area of the income scale, and then all of these other scales that are linked to social transfers. We made such a mess of it so help us God. Once again, Mr Minister said himself, no, there will never be an ideal budget, these were his words today. It is also interesting to see the position of the SAB, or it has now been slightly rectified that somehow they are not the most satisfied, and Mr Jurša also said that they are not most pleased that they were not sufficiently coordinated in the budget, so I understood it at least. But even the best was Mr Bandelli, I almost couldn't believe what I heard, I'd almost say he was in opposition already, but well, let's leave a little joke. That's it. That's it. I wanted to get some salt. Homemade. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have two more applications, Mrs. Natasa Sukić, and you are followed by the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government, mag. Sasha Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u125	Mr President, thank you very much. I will touch on this draft budget in the light of the solution to the housing problem, which we know is rather neat. However, this budget, of course, is partly an emergency patch, it saves, and at this point, of course, I can support or welcome this measure. Indeed, we know that Slovenia has been without an adequate housing policy for 25 years now, although the Constitution states in Article 78 that the country should be the one that creates opportunities for citizens to obtain an adequate housing. But we do know, of course, that it is not that we are left to the market movement to resolve these issues ourselves. For a quarter of a century, we face a lack of non-profit housing, and unfortunately, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia sells its apartments according to some market logic, for example, for a total of EUR 3,000 per square metre. Prices of buying or renting apartments are quite unregulated and are, of course, too high. However, as I say, I would like to commend this item in the budget, which is called Housing Activity. In fact, for 2019 it is dedicated four times as much money as it did last year, which is not so bad, of course. It may be a little less optimistic or a positive fact that this increase is at the expense of subsidising market rent and young families, which is nice and right and I do not mind, and in the short term it is a great measure, as the funds increase from €700,000 to €3.15 million. However, it must be said that if we look at such an approach in the medium or even the long term, of course, it will not bring some long-term solutions, it will not really solve these neurological problems, which I have already mentioned. If I return to the 78th Article of the Constitution, it is clear that we are here, the country is here to provide for the citizens. This is not some natural market right or some laxity left to the private, but adequate housing funds need to be provided, to actually regulate the market, to reach out to this market and to actually start solving this problem systematically and in the long term. After all, in the end, if I may say so, housing is, of course, one of the basic human security needs and this must be in front of the eyes. This is not just the fact that I mentioned when we look at what young generations are dealing with, so young people who have problems entering the labour market and employment have problems living, living where they live, how they can even afford to rent a room, renting a small apartment is already a problem for many people. Most people no longer dream of buying or renting some loans. And it's not just the young victims. The victims, of course, are also transition generations, those who somehow in this transition have been pushed to the social side, so we have a variety of social groups dealing with this problem here. As regards the actual housing deficit in Slovenia, of course this deficit is difficult to really assess, but we can indirectly measure it from the fact that, for example, applicants for some non-profit apartments are ten times more than those currently available. For example, in the capital, we are witnessing such a phenomenon. Well, the capital is a story for itself, even for the sake of tourism and gentrification, this accelerated tourism, which led to prices on the market being totally wild and to a very vulnerable position pushed by many, from the mother of single mothers, young people, pensioners, unemployed, handicapped and many other socially vulnerable social groups, not to mention them too. In fact, if we look at the Nepremicnine.net portal, we see how prices fly into the sky and how this has a devastating effect on these poorer layers of the population or on those who live just above the poverty threshold. If I make a comparison with Austria, we see that there is a poverty threshold of EUR 14 000 200 per year, with us somewhere at 7 000, but in Austria, if we look at the price of a square meter apartment with the cost, there are 7 euros and we have no costs of 4 euros. If we add up the costs here, then we see that we are almost here somewhere in that we have a half-bad attitude for what is, let's say, the threshold of poverty. In short, under such conditions it is not surprising that so many of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are in a very difficult social situation, in fact very threatening to the social situation, so we need to act now. Of course, if poverty is to be effectively resisted, in addition to many other measures, changes in housing policies are very important. In Levica, we insist on this and we also count on all of us to stick together to the coalition treaty that we have negotiated with you at last. In short, I am counting on this, because a common political will is needed for such a difficult issue, a common effort is needed, a broad political consensus is needed on this, and it is necessary to realize that this must become one of the main priorities in the coming year and in the coming and future term of this government. In short, I am pleased that this year's budget shows the first swabs, which are very positive, which indicate that we are going in this direction. But for that real one, it's going to take everything I've mentioned. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u126	Madam Ambassador Mag. Sasha Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to four more points that have been raised in the debate. The MP asked about the EU that we have so far absorbed 500 million and that we are going to draw a billion this year. It's a mix-up of different things. One is cohesion policy, and one is the whole EU story. And in this billion that we have in the plan for this year is 280 million agricultural policy, then 630 million is cohesion policy, and about 100 million are centralised programmes, so these are those where the beneficiaries report directly to the European Commission, and there are also these security programmes, true citizenship and security. You asked if this was real, what those estimates were. We have in the Government a body which is responsible for the management of European cohesion policy, this is the SVRK. In cooperation with the authorities, he prepares plans, operational programme implementation plans, where, after years, he prepares, after priority axes, how much should be drawn up. This is our input from an EU perspective when preparing each budget or rebalancing, and we have no reason not to trust it. In fact, it is in this respect that, in no year, and not only on European items, but also on integrated items, in principle, a little more is planned, never used up to the last cent. So if you're asking me how real this year is, I'm just counting on it to be very real. But as I say, it's probably not going to be spent. Here the resources on their items need money to go to tenders, and when the invitation to tender is not successful, then for that year that item will not remain exhausted or will not be exhausted in the amount as planned. Then the second point was that there was general dissatisfaction with the budget or in this context that there were stupidities so far. I tell you that I sincerely look forward to preparing new budgets with new teams through ministries that will help to make these budgets so much better, because, yes, I sincerely believe that new people with new ideas are coming, but I would like to tell you, however, that almost 90% of the state budget is fixed, there are legal obligations. Approximately 3 billion pay-per-views are paid by direct users, by government administration, if you like, and transfers to public institutions that I have already responded to today. Back here, there are people who are employees who have contracts for working hours, who are doing work and they have to be paid. Then we give 800 million interest, we just borrowed so much and so much money, we just have to pay interest. Then the legal obligation is to transfer to the pension register. The harder the spending side, as far as contributions are concerned, has to be made, this year will, if it is in line with the plan, actually be the first time since 2005 that it will be less than a billion euros. Then you have the next thing to pay in the EU. If we want to draw on European cohesion and agricultural policy, then we have to put our contribution in. I said, this is the order of a good 400 million, and for this year it is nearly 500 million. Then we have a billion 300 transfers to individuals and households. These are people who have been or have been insured in the event of unemployment who are entitled to social assistance or are entitled to a child allowance. For all of this, they are decisions, but they are fixed legal obligations. Then, in fact, we have EU funds, this billion around the EU, which is also a fixed kind of thing to be spent on, because it can be spent in accordance with an operational programme for certain purposes, so that there is not much to say about it. And then we have another part of the revenue that is so-called dedicated revenue that we can use again only for certain purposes. So essentially, when you look at all of this together, if you say that there's definitely one part of the material cost, it says, I don't know, the rental, the current maintenance and these things, one part of it is fixed. So basically after you look at all this, you've already essentially exceeded 8 billion. So this flexible part of the budget, if I say so, is not as large as can be seen at first sight. Then the question of transfers to NGOs was raised - why are they falling? Here I would like to say that, in essence, the ongoing transfer to non-profit organisations is at about 90 million per year. I've been going to look at this for the last ten years. So last year, when this was 109 million, it was one of those really strong years to say it. Now the main reason why it seems that, given the budget adopted, these funds are now falling in the balance, so they are falling mainly on EU funds, and I would say that when it is planned, November 17 for 2019 spending, it will be very difficult to assess whether a call will be made for some purpose, whether it will be received by a public institution or whether it will be obtained by a non-governmental organisation or one part of it. It depends on who this final recipient is, which line in the budget will then show up. As I said, despite the fact that there is now less in the balance than it was adopted, last year the realisation was 109 million for this economic purpose and 141 million are still planned for the rebalancing. So, still significantly more. However, I went to the Ministry of Labour with a view to looking here and, in fact, the incentives for employment are being reduced. So if we have practically full employment now, then such a measure or such a number is logical. With regard to NGOs, however, I would like to mention that since this year we also have a fund for NGOs, where, in fact, there will be a flow of 0.5% of income that we do not direct to some NGOs, it is said that the money left there will be collected in the budget fund from this year and will also be allocated for additional calls for these NGOs. But I would end with words, commenting on the masked data. The masked data in the state budget or in its balance sheet is too important, too serious a document. In the final stage of not providing masked data, it proves that, in 2016, 2017 and 2018, the budget in such a form as was adopted in this National Assembly was implemented, so there was no need for any rebalancing, no addition. In the final stage, this rebalancing went through 16 committees in the National Assembly, went through the boards of the State Council, so that it is not free for masked data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Can I find out that there is no longer a desire to discuss and continue with the agenda? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude this debate. The vote on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, 6 March 2019, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Dear Members, we are moving on to the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? Since there is no desire for a debate, I conclude this debate. Members and Members of Parliament, we are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 4. 3. 2019. We are moving to a budget user of 1537, this is the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, and to a discussion on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support to Slovenians in place and around the world and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Ludmila Novak and Mr. Just Bevk, there are two. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u129	I have already pointed out several times at the consideration of this balance that it is not right that the Slovenian Office has not received a greater increase in this balance, but only for the payment or correction of wage imbalances. If this figure is only 25 000, or exactly 25 000, 744, which is only 0.29 per cent, then we know how much more funds the office has received. This saddens me because in this way we also say that our Slovenians do not matter to us in our place and in the world. Madam Secretary of State, I must say that I was hurt and hurt when you said that this was not the priority of this government or the balance. Maybe you're engaged. Because that also gives us signals as to how much this thing means to us. Someone in the background might have told me, because they're going to get the money, but look, the balance is a public document, they're going to look at it, they're going to see it, and they're going to refer to it. That someone else has received something else, that will not be revealed or seen and will not be so publicly presented. If we expect our neighbouring countries to meet their own obligations to our Slovenians, which is their legislative duty, then, of course, we must also show our greater affection and with such a large budget or rebalancing and with so much increased resources in the budget, I think we should really be more generous towards our minority or our communities anywhere in the world. Maybe we think things are already arranged, run away, nothing's necessary. Members of the commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, which we also visited our community in Italy and in Koroška by delegation, note that the situation of the Slovenian language in young people is getting worse, although the attitude towards the minority is somehow improving all the time, there are also several entries in bilingual schools, but with much poorer language skills. And it is also necessary to ensure that more scholarships are available for young people to study in Slovenia to a greater extent, because here they can improve their language, connect and so on. It is also important to cooperate not only in the cultural, educational field, but also in the area of the economy where new ties are involved, new relations. Some organisations are also taking very important steps in this respect and are expected to receive less funding this year because others are getting as much as they have in previous years, which I do not think is appropriate if the programmes are increasing and improving. Once again, I ask you to reconsider, and the members of the coalition have also expressed their concerns at this very point. It is not about the amendment of New Slovenia, it is indeed signed by Nova Slovenije, but it is about an amendment which is intended for the Slovenian Office and is supported in principle by the majority of Members of this Commission, but which, after party discipline, should not have voted in favour, but also favoured this amendment. Let's show that we care about our cousins.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Only Bevk. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! As I have already said in the general debate today, the biggest loser in the rebalance of the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 is the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. The budget of the Office is, if I am not mistaken, EUR 8 million and EUR 630 000, and in addition, the Office has received EUR 25 000 744 or 0.29% more to cover the costs of the salaries of its staff. All other ministries have received between €747,000 and €145 million. The fact is also that in the past the budget of the Office has been significantly higher, even more than 3 million higher than with this balance. I recall that the budget of the Office was also 11 million and more. We now read here the definition of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the amendments, why they were not subsequently supported on the Finance Committee. It says that the Office has conducted 3 public calls for co-financing of activities and has done all that was necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of all Slovenian organisations outside its borders. The fact is, he couldn't make any other calls because he didn't have any more money. It is said that the Office would be able to draw up an additional call for proposals in 2019 if it received more funds with a balance sheet. Therefore, this justification and the rejection of this amendment from this point of view, to whom something is given, do not drink water. Sadly, though, he drinks water on that basis, for it is necessary to take it away from someone. And the New Slovenia Group proposed that these funds should be taken from the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. But here I agree with the Government's explanation. Of course, it would be right or possible to help that only the Ministry of Finance would advise where to take the funds so that there would be no harm to the execution of an activity. For that reason, I will not support the amendment. However, I have another proposal, which I know in the past, that I have been working on the commissions for Slovenians in place and around the world, and many times an amendment has been tabled and then was not adopted in plenary sessions, but we have received an assurance from the Government that it will provide funds from the budget reserve and then this has also happened several times when the Slovenian Office prepared what tasks are necessary to be carried out in 2019 and then the Ministry of Finance from the budgetary reserve for the execution of these tasks has also provided additional resources. And several times, it was also worth hundreds of thousands of euros or so many millions of dollars in the past. This is my proposal to the Ministry of Finance or to the Government to provide this EUR 500 000 for the functioning of the Office, as stated in the explanatory statement in the New Slovenia Group, for scholarships, for exchange and for the participation of societies, for the learning of the Slovenian language, especially in the field of Slovenes living outside the Republic of Slovenia in place, for the indigenous Slovenian national community. Perhaps, though, we could give more resources for the work of the displaced. The fact is that outside the Republic of Slovenia there are half a million Slovenes and Slovenes and that care for indigenous national communities, for residents and for expatriates is also a constitutional category, as Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament has been last reported, so I ask if anyone else would like to discuss it at this point? If not, we're closing the debate. And we are moving on to the budget user 1911 of the Ministry of Defence and to the debate on the proposed amendment to this budgetary user. That is why I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of equipment and infrastructure and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Mr. Blaž Pavlin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. With the proposed amendment, we want to provide funds for the Ministry of Defence to be used to participate in the investment in the renovation of the sport park near the Janka Premrla - Vojka Vojka Vojka. They are expected to receive an additional EUR 300,000. This sport park is owned by the Ministry of Defence and managed by the municipality of Vipava, which started the renovation of the playground last year, and with additional resources and participation from the Ministry, this sport park could be fully restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word on this? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1912 of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes of this budgetary user, which I am putting first into discussion the sub-programme Support for Technology Development Projects and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Blaze Pavlin, here you go again, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you again for your word. The long-term competitiveness of our economy depends directly on investment in R & D. In the field of investment in R & D, Slovenia has been lagging behind the European Union average in recent years. In order to ensure long-term competitiveness, we estimate that an increase in R & D resources is essential to a greater extent than is proposed through the rebalancing. In particular, we stress the importance of developing applied knowledge for the economy. That is why we propose an increase of €10 million in this item.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much. As there are no more reported debaters, we are concluding the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Pretty Chimenka, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. With the proposed amendment, we want to provide funding of €5 million for a new project for the integrated development of the Haloz area. Why? Let me remind you, those of you who were Members already in the previous mandate, at that time in 2015 the Government set up a working group to prepare measures for the integrated development of the Haloz area. One set of measures has been implemented, mainly by local communities, and in fact almost nothing has come to life with these measures. There have been some minimal developments in agriculture to help the Haloz area, which really has a great potential for development both in agriculture, tourism and the small economy, to say that 7 municipalities, all of whom do not know this area, are border areas, all of these municipalities are actually below the average of development in Slovenia and, last but not least, it is important to realize that there is still a lack of basic infrastructure in this area, not just road infrastructure, I am talking about the internet, and information infrastructure, which, last but not least, is the basis for development, the basis for young people to remain in this area. The only solution to somehow solve this area is to provide specific financial resources that are targeted and in some way encourage development in this area. To this end, of course, we have proposed to provide €5 million in 2019 in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word on this? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and to discuss the amendments tabled to these sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a debate? Blaze Pavlin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, again. Due to the poor state roads in Kamnik Municipality, we are proposing more means to maintain them, amounting to 500 000 euros. Let me say that the Municipality of Kamnik is one of the major municipalities in Slovenia, and we think this amendment makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors, the 7 amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the 7 amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a debate? Mr. Shisko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I mentioned the matter earlier in the budget for the rebalancing, in order to increase the Investment Maintenance Programme for State Road Construction by €600,000 and reduce the support of the Migration Programme, international protection and integration by €600,000. Why did I table an amendment? From one simple point of view, because the road had already been partially repaired, then we had a phase to perform in three phases of reconstruction. The Municipality of Krško took over part of its financial obligations years ago and provided all the necessary project documentation for the reconstruction of the road and the remaining accompanying infrastructure through the village of Zdole. The documentation was commissioned with a view to speeding up the renewal of the said section of the road and thus allowing users to transport normally. In the 2019 budget, the plant has planned some of these funds in the NRP, but is now expected to be taken with a rebalancing, but I believe that for 600 000 euros on one road to be taken from migrants when we give almost 8 million, but it is true, I could say, a very low amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Do any other Members wish to discuss this point? First Mrs Ludmila Novak and then Mr Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u143	I myself have tabled an amendment for Moravča, which has been in all the budget documents for a long time, but with a very low line and things do not move. During this time, we find that traffic security through Moravče has deteriorated greatly, as a large number of freighters from the Termite sandstone go daily through Moravč and in the opposite direction, when various construction materials are being imported, ashes from the Ljubljana thermal plant, and I do not know what other materials, safe or supposed to be dangerous, but this is not the question now, but it is the case that Moravče needs a fence that has been in development programs for some time, but unfortunately things do not move. We have therefore proposed to increase the resources for the production of documentation and then for further procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the next word to prepare Mr Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. I would now like to make an explanation for the two amendments, the first of which is EUR 1 million, which would provide additional funds for measures on the former H1, which is the former section of Pluska-Crave motorway. The proposed amendment would increase these funds by EUR 1 million. This year's 2019 Development Programme Plan foresees €97 000 for actions at H1. Here, let me point out that after the construction of the highway, the former high-speed road remained a road by the city of Trebnje, which was then turned into a state road, and no measures were taken to calm traffic, so it is to some extent dangerous for bikers in particular. After the construction of the highway there is also supposed to be rehabilitation of overpasses across the fast road, some are already closed to motor vehicles because they are in such poor condition, and level crossings should be carried out, there is a true link to the settlements that are in the southern part of this fast road. However, priority should be given to the construction of a centre for the import into the city of Trebnje itself. The second amendment, however, refers to the bypass of Mirna in the Municipality of Mirna, which would provide an additional 500 000 euros this year, in particular for the preparation of all the necessary documentation. This railway is of paramount importance for the economy of the Mirska valley as well as for Posavje and Sevnica, as this is the fastest link between this part of Slovenia and Ljubljana. In this part, there is a bridge in the village of Mirna that does not allow heavy cargo, so it is increasingly difficult to transport towards Ljubljana via Celje or Krske. The construction of this envelope would also enable faster or better freight traffic against Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much. And last but not least, Mr. Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. My amendment refers to the state road R2447, section 0290, where three sections in the length of four kilometres are scheduled for renewal this year, and the construction of pedestrian corridors and pedestrian crossings, as well as two bridges that are in very catastrophic condition. But we are not talking about rebuilding the road as a whole, so I have also tabled an amendment. It's an extremely catastrophic road, and you don't even know if these people are staring at you or if they're actually so ragged. For the following year they are also forecasting reconstruction in the Troyan tunnel, which means that all traffic will be diverted to this road, and it is already being redirected, even when accidents occur, all traffic here on this destroyed road. The safety of all participants in the transport sector is at risk, and I propose an increase in the means of recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Member Franz Rosec also applied to the debate. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. My amendment relates to this regional road Zavodnje-Šostanj. I would like to point out one fact in particular here. This road is already in the Ministry's plan, and I would only warn so much that we will work these 5 kilometers for four years because the Ministry planned to build a 1.2km each year. And my amendment was meant in this concept, and we would pool these funds to make this road in one piece, because I think at this point in time, in this technology, working every year for 1.2 kilometers, it's a little funny.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this point? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2550 of the Ministry of Environment and Space and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am therefore putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Mr. Franz Rosec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thanks again for saying that. This amendment, however, concerns the problem of the resolution of the Shaleska Valley, or even the area of the Municipality of Šostjanj. We know that the Municipality of Šostjanj suffered major floods in 2012 and there was something else in 2014. In these NRPs, certain funds were provided for these matters, but there was no call for any such information so that the municipality could apply to acquire these funds. During the past year, a good will was given from the ministry and a 7 - mile [7 km] shaft was cleansed, but this burning problem is still not solved. It is said that a hydraulic study of the Pake River will have to be done, including with a view of maintained water upstream from Šostanja, says something in Velenje. I think it would be good to approach this study, to take some measures, from the dry restraints to the direction of the Paka River to and from Lake Velenj, back to the Pako River, thereby reducing speed. This is not only a matter of the municipality of Šostanj, but a broader context. Above all, this amendment is related to another matter, namely, in these NRPs, it is also intended to solve the problem of the Lower Savinja Valley. We know that the Paka River is pouring into the Savinja River, and I think this could be some sort of whole solution. That is why this amendment has been tabled, because I also believe that nothing has been done so far in all these matters and in these promises, as far as the previous government has been able to make certain calls and means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this point? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2555 of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611 Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the debate on the proposed amendment to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of supporting activities in the field of work, family and social affairs and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. There was a mag in the debate. It's a cakemaker. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u153	Madam President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have made an increase in the sub-programme of Support Activities in the field of work, family and social affairs of €5 million. Older people belong to the most vulnerable group in society. Caring for a safe and dignified age must be a priority of the State, and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia ultimately dictates this. Raising care in nursing homes poses a major problem for both the elderly and their relatives, who have so far faced great difficulties in paying for care. For a number of elderly people, raising a caregiver means being uncertain about staying in nursing homes. At this point, it should be pointed out that living in nursing homes is an integrated care that brings, in addition to safety and care, an important involvement of older people in society and their better age. With this increase of €5 million in the sub-programme, we expect the cost of staying to be reduced and, finally, the quality of care to be increased. I am convinced that we have also reduced the two sub-programmes relatively correctly within the framework of the parliamentary group, namely the reduction of the sub-programme Implementation of protocol events of €2 million and the reduction of the Migration sub-programme, international protection and integration of €3 million. I expect Members and Members, as well as the coalitions, that our amendment on the increase in the sub-programme on labour, family and social activities of €5 million, which is to take care of nursing homes, reduce care and increase quality services, will also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Social Protection Programmes and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a debate? I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a debate? Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u155	We have tabled an amendment to increase investment in preschool education. I will also mention the next amendment in the field of school education. This amendment, I have tabled this proposal either on a proposal or on a request from a number of mayors who say that there has been no call for kindergartens since 2011, that only some investments have been completed and no new calls have been made that not everyone still has sufficient child protection to carry out new investments. Of course, for these investments for kindergartens, for schools, the municipality’s investors and the state are only a co-investor in certain percentages, but these amounts are also extremely important for the municipalities. However, since there was, of course, increased consumption for the municipalities, while increasing wages, the mayors say that they did not have much or that they did not profit much, some said they even had a minus. And that's why I proposed these two amendments to raise funds for investments in kindergartens and schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want a debate? Because no, we are closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3340 of the Ministry of Culture and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes of this budgetary user, which I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Cultural Support Activities and the amendment of the SNS Group. Anybody want a debate? Mr. Jani Ivanusha, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u157	Madam Vice President. The budget of Slovenian culture has been the most disadvantaged in recent years, as culture has taken the most. This has happened because of the misunderstanding and treatment of culture as an obstacle and not a developmental element in our country. Culture is an integral part of the nation and must be strengthened. For if there is a situation where culture does not have political support, it is the last decomposition of the nation. In particular, we propose that by increasing the funds of the above-mentioned sub-programme, the work of the Maribor Art Gallery should also be adequately strengthened. There is an urgent need to increase funds and take them on sub-programmes where they are not necessary and where rationalisation can undoubtedly save. First, it is necessary to take care of the Slovenian nation and only after it is taken care of can we start sharing with other beneficiaries. We propose, of course, that from the Ministry of the Interior we reduce the migration sub-programme, international protection and integration by a million euros and give them to the sub-programme Support activities in the field of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u159	We have also proposed to increase funds for the restoration of cultural heritage. We know that there are many buildings, especially these are different castles and other important buildings, which are tragically falling, many are state-owned, some also privately owned, and we do not take advantage of their potential. For the first time, cultural heritage belongs to us, and for the second time, if it were to be restored and properly implemented, it could also be marketed or enriched by our cultural and tourist offer. We know that the renovations of such buildings are extremely expensive, and that is why the 10 million we are proposing is not much, but every year this would be an important sum that could be earmarked for the reconstruction of such facilities, which would then serve people and be suitable for our better tourist offer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you very much.I assume that this was a discussion on the sub-programme for the protection of cultural heritage, archival and library activities that I intended to open now. However, I ask if anyone else would like to discuss this amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia Group? If not, I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, 6 March, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are now moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We will also vote on the Development Programme Plan in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 6 March, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. The vote on the proposal for a rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 6 March, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market and that it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in particular Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Leon Behin, to further explain the motion for a decree. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u161	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a decree on the real-estate management plan for other state authorities for 2019 is an integral part of the Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. The basis for the preparation of State real estate plans is laid down in Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Real Estate Act and in Article 13, paragraph 4, of the Real Estate Act and in Article 13, paragraph 4, of the Real Estate Act. The content and structure of the plans themselves are prescribed by a government regulation. Last year, the Ministry of Public Administration called on all state authorities to submit a proposal for the management of this property. Of the other state authorities, only the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared his proposal for a work relating to a plan for the acquisition of movable property of EUR 38 000. In accordance with the law, the Government took note of the real estate management plan for other state authorities and forwarded it to the National Assembly for its consideration and approval. The proposal for a plan for the acquisition of the Ombudsman's movable property will, in principle, have a financial impact on the budget of EUR 38 000. However, no comments were made on the matter, including by the legal service.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on the Interior of Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a working body, and I give the floor to Mr Zvonk Černač to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Nice greetings again to all present! At its 5th regular meeting, on 13 February, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management of the State for the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. There were no additional or complementary explanations and discussions. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft decree and adopted them. As amendments, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly have not been adopted in the proposal for a decree on the State's real property management plan for the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. No amendments were adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, so the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made tomorrow, on Wednesday 6 March in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the Commission is not in a position to assess the compatibility of the measures with the internal market. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to complement the explanation of the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Leon Behin, once again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u165	Your Honor! The objective of the real estate management plan is to clarify as much as possible the definitions of property that are not required by the State authorities to operate and are intended for sale themselves, and this also applies to property that is not required by the State authorities to operate or have served their purpose and are useless for the effective performance of the tasks of the authorities. From the point of view of the acquisition of immovable property, the plan provides an indicative definition of the real estate that will be purchased by the State authorities for the purposes of their operation. In the case of movable property itself, the definition is similar, since it is a framework plan for the acquisition of movable property which will be necessary for its operation in 20189 for the operation of the same public authorities. The basis for the acquisition of State real estate plans for public administration bodies, judicial authorities, public institutions, public-economic institutions, public agencies and public funds is laid down in Article 11, paragraph 2, of the Real Estate Act and in Article 13, paragraph 3, of the Real Estate Act. The contents of the real estate management plan and the planning procedure are specified in the Real Estate Regulation of the State and of the local communities and in relation to the second paragraph of Article 91 of that Act, which also provides for the preparation of the forms annexed to this Regulation. The Ministry of Public Administration has issued instructions on the preparation of real estate management plans for 2019 on the basis of which it has selected the submitted proposals of individual resources from all these bodies, as indicated at the outset. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided on the Proposal for a Decree on the planning of the conduct of the State's real estate to the authorities of the State administration, judicial authorities, public institutions, public-economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2019 and submitted it for consideration and confirmation to the National Assembly in the text as you have today at the table. The proposed plan is structured and divided according to the law and regulation into a plan for the acquisition of immovable and movable property and a plan for the disposal of immovable and movable property. The correctness of the data in the sense and the correctness of the acquisition procedures below and the availability is the responsibility of the individual asset managers, as they are also often included and allocated to individual funds. This is how the 2019 plan is prepared and covers the following. A real estate plan of EUR 80 million 856 000 680.18 and a blueprint for the acquisition of movable property of EUR 138 million 45 000 754.59. However, the real estate management plan itself includes a land-use plan of EUR 12 million 879 thousand 425.99 and a building management plan of EUR 26 million 340 thousand 266. A plan for land use and a building of 56 million 93 thousand and 69.76 euros. The plan for the disposal of movable property is 5 million 777 thousand. Taking into account the real estate management plan and the real estate management plan in 2019, we plan EUR 101 million 89 000 762.47 Euros of real estate sales and, on the other hand, a total of EUR 218 million 902 thousand 434.77 is planned to purchase assets during the same period. In the part where the financial implications relate to the projected increase in revenue and the state budget, these are indicative financial figures and are assessed on a case-by-case basis. The present plan for the preparation of the real estate management plan is the most recent one under this legislation, as the provisions of the Real Estate Act and the Local Self-Government Act have been substantially amended in the preparation of plans for the management of real estate for 2020, so that the following management of this property is otherwise regulated and is no longer a valid project in the Republic of Slovenia’s NRP budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the country, and I give the floor to Mr Zvonko Černač to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much again. At its 5th regular meeting, on 13 February, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan with State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2019 submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The representative of the proposaler, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, gave a supplementary explanation about the content we have heard today. The representative of the SDS Group highlighted the fact that the country has had major economic difficulties in managing its assets both in this area and in many others for some time. He expressed the hope that these things would be settled in a slow manner, both as regards real estate and as regards movable property, and that the country would start acting in a more rational and economical manner. The representative of the Levica Group pointed out that there was a lack of transparency in the real estate plan, as, for example, only EUR 5.9 million has been stated in the Ministry of the Interior for vehicles for the purposes of the police. The representative of the proposer shall ensure that the data is obtained and transmitted subsequently. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft decree and adopted them. No amendments were tabled to the draft decree on the working body. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2019 be adopted in the present text.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the only point of view will be presented by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, on its behalf Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you, Madam Vice President. We're the only ones who've checked out, and we don't intend to sign up, so we'll check out. As we know, this Decision sets out a plan for the management of property and movable property of the State for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2019. The content and procedure of the adoption of real estate management plans in the transitional period until the preparation of the 2020 budget shall be governed by the Law on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities and the Regulation. We are familiar with the components of the 2019 Real Estate Management Plan, which are, according to Table 1, Table 2, Table 2A and 2B, components of the country's Property Management Plan. For 2019, the plan for the acquisition of movable property referred to in Table 3 and the plan for the disposal of movable property are Table 4. The movables are allocated to motor vehicles, information equipment and other movable property as required by Article 12 of the Regulation. Table 3 of the 2019 Mobile Property Acquisition Plan lists the different types of movable property, from passenger vehicles, tractors, combined vehicles and other vehicles. Table 4 shows that the manager of the Slovenian Forestry Institute has two shovels in the indicative value of €32 000. Interestingly, we have only two shovels in Slovenia. The plans under consideration are prepared by the real estate managers of the State, the authorities of the State administration, the judicial authorities and the public law persons whose founder is the Republic of Slovenia. According to the definition of ZPSDLS, the authorities of the State Administration, the authorities in their composition, government services and administrative units and the judicial authorities are the courts, the Prosecutor's Office and the State's Office. Public law includes, inter alia, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds. In this way, real estate managers shall draw up a proposal for a real estate management plan within time limits and in accordance with the rules governing the preparation of the State budget established for the preparation and reporting of the financial plans of the direct users of the State budget. On the basis of the proposals, real estate managers are therefore expected to receive EUR 95 million in real estate sales in 2019 and a total of EUR 80 million 856 thousand 680 for real estate purchases. The plan for the availability of movable assets is moving within the indicative group of EUR 5 million 777 thousand, of which EUR 5 million is EUR 625 thousand of the value of motor vehicles, EUR 90 000 of the value of information equipment and the second movable property is estimated at EUR 62 000. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Proposal on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-05-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, so the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made tomorrow, Wednesday, 6 March, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 5th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m., by addressing agenda item 5. Good evening, everyone! (The sitting was suspended by 5.) MARCH 2019 AT 19.51.)
