ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Tomaž Lisec, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mag. Andrej Reich, Jelka Godec from 13 a.m., Dr. Matthew Tashner Watovec 12. 30, Dr. Franc Runk from 11. 30 to 17 hours, Igor Zorčič until 16. 30, Predrag Baković by 2 p.m., Boštjan Koražija by 11 p.m., Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY – DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION PROPOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Welcome to the consideration of amendments to the bill, which will in fact address the shortcomings that people experience and live with in life. These changes have occurred because people have warned us that they have great difficulties in removing the architectural barriers that they have in multi-housing units, which pose a very large obstacle to them, because they cannot access their apartments normally and are not able to install lifts or remove these architectural barriers. Today the situation is such that it is necessary to intervene in a building where we need a building permit, 100 % of the consent of all owners, of all floor owners. It happens, however, that some in these buildings do not want or cooperate to actually reach the lift. Sometimes it is merely a matter of conceiving, but often it is a matter of not wanting to cooperate out of fear of great financial obligations. Those who wanted to change and install elevators were faced with a barrier that was insurmountable for them. That is why, at my initiative, the Council of State has initiated a hearing and has also drafted a proposal for amendments to the law, allowing 50% of the top-level owners to be able to install an elevator into these residential buildings, which are actually older than the date and are generally ground floor plus four floors. Then, in dealing with what had happened — the government insisted on a systemic solution and conditioned its support with a higher quorum. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out some of the shortcomings that we have had in the amendment proposal. In this place, of course, I thank the Group of Social Democrats, in particular Secretary Mir Pretnar, for the harmonisation amendments. We have reached agreement with them on the Infrastructure Committee, where the amendment has been adopted without a vote and even then the amendment of the Article as a whole. The changes are therefore that we have raised the quorum to 75%, that we have ensured legal certainty for all those who do not want to participate in the project, so in an unfair procedure they can challenge this decision due to excessive financial burden or because of interference with their property rights. The court then decides. Of course, if other high-level owners who voted for the lift to be installed or removed to interfere with the traffic-obstructed people, residents, owners of these apartments, it is possible for them to take over the financial performance on their shoulders, then the court cannot take a decision to annul the decision on the construction or installation of the lift due to additional financial obligations. And of course, we have further explained what architectural barriers mean, that is, mechanical lifting devices, building furniture and, in our case, the elevator in particular. All of this has been coordinated, remedied and agreed by the competent ministry through the amendment, so that the law before you is harmonised at this point. As I see it, he wasn't an amendment either. And I am really asking you to support this change of law and allow people in real life to remedy the shortcomings that they are actually burdening at this point. I, of course, thank you for your attention and for the favourable result of the vote already in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 12th meeting, on 10. 9. 2019 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Housing Law submitted by the Council of State for consideration following a reduced procedure. Amendments to Articles 1 and 3 of the SD Group were tabled within the time limit and amendments to Article 1 and to Article 1 of the SDS Group of Ambassadors were tabled. A representative of the Council of State gave an additional explanation and, as today, presented the key points of their proposal. The representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space pointed out, in his opening remarks, that the Government's normative work programme for 2019 already envisages the adoption of a new housing law, which will also include systemic changes to the percentage of the necessary consensus to carry out the various operations. He pointed out that the competent ministry at the principal level was therefore in agreement with the idea of reducing the necessary consensus for building operations where building permits needed to be obtained. He estimated that lowering the consensus from the existing 100 % to the proposed 50 % of the floor owners would constitute an excessive interference with private property. At the same time, it would be imperative to define the concept of architectural barriers precisely and it would be necessary to provide legal protection for over-elected high-level owners. On the basis of the above, the Government would support the proposal for a law if the share of the necessary consent was increased to 75%. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that it would suggest re-examination of the majority required to take a decision and further substantiate the proposed regulation in terms of the proportionality test. It also made certain comments to the specific articles on the definition of architectural barriers and the entry into force of the law. In a short discussion of the members and members of the Committee, all the debaters expressed their support for the bill. In doing so, some expressed fear that the compromise solution, which foresees raising the share of consent from the initial proposed 50% to more than 75% of the top-level owners after co-ownership shares, would not achieve the intensity of the bill proposal. The problem of installation of lifts is particularly acute in multi-room buildings with a maximum of four floors, where the three-quarters share of the consent will be very difficult to reach when the owners are opposed, especially on the ground floor and on the first floor. On the other hand, some have pointed out that it is important to ensure the proper legal protection of over-declared high-level owners. Although in such cases housing owners often do not give their consent solely because of their own narrow interests, because they do not need lifts themselves, and in many cases they do not give their consent because of their poor social status, because they are not able to co-finance such buildings. After discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the SD Group to Articles 1 and 3 and then, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal together.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aleš Prijon, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! Today, we are considering a complementary proposal for a law on the amendments to the Housing Law, which would specifically define the necessary consensus to take decisions on construction operations and improvements in multi-housing buildings related to the removal of architectural barriers and the latter needs to be granted a building permit. The proposed agreement of more than three quarters of the floor owners after co-ownership shares. The reduction of the required agreement would facilitate the adoption of decisions on construction works and improvements in the case of construction interventions concerning the removal of architectural barriers, according to the proposal. The government supports the proposal as it assesses that the proposed solution will facilitate the implementation of the necessary investments in order to ensure unhindered access and use of multi-housing buildings. The reduction of the necessary consensus for the execution of construction works and improvements to remove architectural barriers to more than 75% of the floor owners after co-ownership shares is in line with the provisions of the new Housing Act, which is adopted in the 2019 regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment introduces adequate legal protection in the vote of the floor-holders who are able to challenge the decision of the floor-holders in an unfair procedure. A more detailed description of the removal of architectural barriers is also included, which is linked to ensuring unobstructed access to and use of the building and is terminologyally in line with building legislation. Here I would add only that they are currently in the process of amending and supplementing the Construction Law, where we propose that the installation of internal lifts for functional obstacles be proposed by 50% of the consent of the floor owners, and such installation will not require a building permit, only a statement by the responsible engineer that the facility is safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats – will be presented to us by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed Act on Complements of the Housing Law amends Article 29 of the Housing Law, which provides that all building operations in multi-family buildings for which a building permit is to be obtained are subject to the consent of all senior owners. According to a proposal to amend the law, the decision to carry out construction operations to remove architectural barriers, such as the construction of the elevator, could be taken by high-level owners with more than three quarters of co-ownership shares. In this way it would be possible to build lifts in multi-housing buildings where executions are largely not favoured by the lodgers on the ground and therefore it is not possible to adapt the buildings needed by the mobile persons, the elderly and the families with children. This is therefore a serious problem which prevents investments from being made and buildings from being modernised. The biggest problem is housing blocks built during Yugoslavia, when the standards at the time did not prescribe the construction of elevators or technically have not yet been installed. In the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats we support the law as it improves the situation. However, the problem is that 75 % of the consent of all co-owners to remove architectural barriers is quite high and there is still a high likelihood that many investments will still not be made in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members, honourable President! The Housing Act, adopted in 2003, has changed and complemented three times to date, but intensive individualisation and a new social reality require more concrete changes. Article 29 of the 2008 Law provides for the consent of senior owners with more than three quarters of co-ownership shares to be agreed on on a regular management framework for multi-housing buildings, while the prior agreement of all floor owners was necessary. Today we have on the table the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Housing Law, proposed by the State Council and pursued the objective of universal accessibility of multi-housing buildings. This time, the amendments shall be bound by the second paragraph of Article 29 of the Act already mentioned. The provision of the second paragraph of Article 29 to the high-level owners is causing significant difficulties. In the case of construction works and improvements for which it is necessary to obtain a building permit and the consent of all floor owners, this makes it very difficult to remove architectural barriers. This makes it extremely difficult for persons with reduced mobility or functional disabilities to access their own homes. The installation of lifts is particularly necessary in older multi-housing buildings, since it allows older ones in particular to be independent of the assistance of others for longer periods, thus also pursuing the objective of long-term care. The bill goes in the direction of regulating the situation in order to establish an optimal co-existence between residents. Today, various conflicts are becoming more common among residents, mainly because of the multi-purpose use of a space that is often disapproved of by some residents. It should also be borne in mind that there are increasing numbers among the top-level owners of those who care about maintaining the bloc, those who at all costs prevent projects and activities for the benefit of all owners. That is why the reduced requirement for decision-making, which in particular makes it easier for older populations to stay, is certainly a welcome and appropriate measure. The common premises in a multi-housing building are co-owned by the floor owners of individual parts, and such co-ownership is inseparably linked to the ownership of individual parts. The owners of the dwellings are therefore the owners of the joint parts of the building, and changes in percentages regarding the necessary arrangements for the execution of transactions that go beyond the regular management framework should be technically determined. In the SAB Group, we welcome any systemic solutions that provide a secure and dignified life for citizens and citizens during the third life period. Removing architectural barriers not only improves life for the elderly and the disabled, but the solution must be offered to this social group, which is increasing from year to year. Older people face obstacles at every step of their lives, so support for basic daily activities is not only desirable but also essential. In the SAB Group, we welcome the reduction of the required majority of the consent of the high-level owners to remove architectural barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Desus Group, we are always happy when all the members of the current composition of the National Assembly are as united as we are in this proposal for the amendment of the Housing Law. The proposal was adopted without a vote at the meeting of the parent working body. This indicates that we have all recognized the need for the novel to be adopted as soon as possible and that it is not waiting for a systemic solution, which, despite the efforts of the competent ministry, will be waiting for quite some time. It is also a common wish for all of us to facilitate projects in the field of investment in multi-family buildings, especially those designed to remove obstacles to older and younger people who, due to such or different reasons, have a difficult movement and would like to have a lift built in their multi-housing house, for example, that will enable them to move more easily after urgent tasks, which are now often difficult for them or even disabled. The proposal for a novel is therefore based on the idea of reducing the level of consent required by the high-level owners for construction works and improvements in multi-housing buildings for which a building permit is to be obtained. According to the law in force, it is necessary to reach the consensus of all the high-level owners, which has often stopped the investment, as it has often happened that the necessary consensus could not be reached for a variety of reasons. It was not always just a matter of bargaining, often, and this is more and more, people simply cannot afford to pay their share, as it is already difficult to survive from month to month. The proposal therefore reduces the majority required to take such decisions, if any, after the adoption of the amendments at the meeting of the parent working body, in order to remove the architectural barriers from 100 % to 75 % or three quarters. In this way, according to our assessment, the parliamentary group is also more likely to protect its intervention in property rights and to provide legal protection for the high-level owners. Of course, Members of the Desus Group will support the amendment, but we would like to stress once again here that we must not compare people who cannot afford the additional cost of such an investment and those who do not give their consent on purpose. We therefore hope that legal protection, which will be clearly enshrined in the text of the law after the adoption of the amendment, will help such people not to find themselves in even greater social distress because of the good intentions of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u14	Nice hello to you all! The purpose after the completion of the Housing Law is good, namely to ensure that multi-housing buildings are in such condition as to ensure their normal application for all. The Government's arguments that the proposed amendment does not regulate this area systematically and that it will be settled by itself this year are not realistic in our view. Why? We know a large number of directives that have run out of time for interpretation, for which we have already received warnings from Europe. We do not believe in the claims of the government that the Housing Law will be systematically regulated by the government, because they have been in power for more than a year and there are no changes yet. Housing policy has been neglected for many years. It is a novel that embraces a large population and citizens and solves the problems of many, either the top-notch owner or the user of the apartment. This novel will be supported for the reason that it will primarily help those who are physically disabled, older populations, young families, and others. The legislation currently in force, which provides for the consent of all senior owners, in the case of an architectural change for which a building permit is required, is non-lifelike. It is necessary to pursue the objective of functional adaptation of dwellings, which is manifested primarily through the social function of property ownership – the latter is also set out in Article 67 of the Constitution of Slovenia – in order to give effect to the prescribed social function of property, by virtue of the functionality of the dwellings, that the law currently in force prescribes the consent of all the relevant owners, namely the removal of architectural barriers. Housing policy has been neglected for many years, and it is right that the Council of State has taken the initiative and submitted a proposal to address the addition of the Housing Law. I hope that by his activity he has also framed the Government, at least on the committee, that was what it looked like in the vote. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we have detected problems on the ground among the floor owners, namely the prescribed consent of all the floor owners. In this regard, I am thinking mainly of financing the execution of facades on multi-housing buildings and elevators and other matters. We will therefore support any change that will solve life's problems even in the future. The proposed amendment, following the three-quarters majority of co-ownership shares provided for in order to carry out construction works which are the removal of architectural barriers, is good, so we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u16	Your Honor! Anyone who has ever lived in a multi-housing facility has already met up with discussions on joint investments in the facility, but very often such discussions are turned into major disagreements and, as a result, into a deadlock in urgent investment. This is also supported by the current legislation, which provides for the consent of all level-holders to take decisions on construction works and improvements for which a building permit is to be obtained. On the ground floor owners do not understand the priority of repairing the roof or building the elevator, and those on the higher floors may be over-recovery of the basement. This should be borne in mind in the case of procedures that address architectural barriers, especially the improvement of the quality of living for disabled persons, elderly patients, and damaged families with young children. Even those who oppose investment at a given time may, if they do so, be in a situation where users of new infrastructure are in a position to do so. There are, of course, justifiable reasons why someone cannot co-finance an investment and legal protection must be provided for it. The proposal for a law of the State Council, which has been supplemented by a new three-quarter agreement of the top-level owners to remove architectural barriers, will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u18	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! The new law proposed by the Council of State is aimed at reforming that part of the content of the law that deals with or determines the relationship between co-owners of multi-housing buildings in connection with physical interventions to buildings that exceed regular maintenance work and for which a building permit is to be obtained. The existing law and construction legislation explicitly stipulate that construction operations and improvements for which building permits are to be obtained must, of course, be agreed by all owners of dwellings, which often prevents new investments. That provision has often proved impractical in practice, since certain roommates in the so-called blocks for justified or unjustifiable reasons for such interventions did not, of course, agree and therefore did not give their consent. The National Council has thus proposed in the amendment to the Act that the investment decision to remove architectural barriers should also be taken by residents with more than 50 % ownership shares, whether the investment in question requires a building permit or not. Following a review of the material, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly submitted an opinion that a reduction in ownership shares of no more than 50 % in the case of investments whose execution is not possible without a building permit would constitute too much interference in the enjoyment of the personal property of the over-elected owners. Even in the LMŠ Group, when we dealt with the matter in our Group of Members, we had very similar concerns, in fact. Therefore, in its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed and called for the law to provide for the necessary consent to be defined or defined on more than 75 % of the floor owners by ownership shares, while also providing for the appropriate legal protection of the over-elected high-level owners and specifying the concept of architectural barriers. At its regular session, the mother's working body then took this proposal into account and endorsed the opinion of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service with the amendment. This is how we got to 75%. We will therefore also confirm the proposal for the amendment of the Law in the Marjan Šarca Letter Group because we are aware that the key components of a quality residential environment include universal access to accommodation, which is often limited to the area of multi-habitation facilities and is reflected in the inadequate access to higher-floor housing. This is especially true for older people, for disabled people and, of course, for young families with wheelchairs. The proposed novel will thus simplify the administrative procedures by which tenants of multi-housing buildings will overcome all those architectural obstacles that undermine the quality of living in their lives. For this reason, we will also support the proposal of the law in the List of Marjan Šarc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the Ministry, respectable colleagues, colleagues! On the proposal or initiative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the novel of the Housing Law came on the parliamentary bench. The proposed law brings solutions that will make life easier and easier for many people living in multi-housing buildings, which we welcome and support from the Social Democrats. For many years, we have been able to see in public how multi-housing buildings are facing problems related to improving or facilitating access to buildings and the inability to use lifts in them. As has already been said, experience shows that most of the time the installation of lifts or the removal of other architectural barriers is hampered, in particular, by owners who have no interest in solving such problems, either that lifts do not need or that architectural obstacles do not cause them problems. The fact is that, under the current regime, 100 % of the owners' consent is required for each such investment or intervention, which is in practice the most often impossible to obtain for various reasons. We are therefore talking about improvements such as benches, elevators, and other equipment that make it easier for residents and their everyday residents. Proposers in their marriage novels are pursuing the objective of facilitating the decision-making of building works and improvements to the level-holders when it comes to building interventions to remove architectural barriers. The applicants initially proposed a solution so that the decision to remove architectural barriers could be taken by the top-level owners who have more than half the co-ownership shares in the multi-housing building. In their opinions, the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service have pointed out that the proposed solution is questionable, because it has a considerable impact on the property rights of the high-level owners, who would disagree with the majority's decision, and at the same time they would not be provided with legal protection against the decision taken by the majority of the high-level owners. We have therefore tabled an amendment in the Group of Social Democrats, which has increased the proportion of floor owners to a majority of 75% while ensuring the legal protection of high-level owners who disagree with the majority decision of the top-level owners. Such a solution is life-saving and balanced because, on the one hand, with sufficient consent of the level-holders, it allows decision-making and, on the other hand, it provides adequate legal protection against the decision taken by the majority. The removal of architectural barriers, such as the construction of lifts, benches, fences and the like, improves the quality of stay for all occupants of the building and ensures universal accessibility of the surrounding area. Older, disabled, long - suffering, and young families with young children will later have easier access and use of multi-housing buildings. We will support the amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u22	Good day to you all. Let me begin by saying that, in fact, we were extremely pleased with the proposal of the State Council in the Modern Centre, and a little less satisfied with the amendment from 50% to 75%, but we have adopted it and we will also support the proposal for a law or amendment. However, let me explain what really led us to believe that this dissatisfaction is, of course, expressed here today before the well-respected assembly. In fact, if property rights are very clearly defined by the Constitution, it is also the right of all those who have property to choose, of course, to change architectural barriers, especially when they have such or other difficulties to access their property. We were a little less satisfied with the explanation and the different arguments that one of the fundamental human rights is to decide on property and that when it comes to multi-housing houses, when it comes to multiple owners, this level of human rights must be expressed in 75%. Human rights cannot be shared as a percentage. Human right – whether you have it or not, only these two exist. If that were true, then one of the fundamental rights in a democratic society when we go to the elections would be that two-thirds majority, which would be the only and saving and just one, who would say who was actually elected to the National Assembly or to any other function, if it were an appointment. And the same applies to all other human rights. Do you imagine that you have the human right to self-determination or to self-determination, which is measured again as a percentage? This proportionality and the argument of proportionality, of course, simply does not drink clean water. We understand and accept that even when people have ownership rights, they can also have financial problems and that it is more difficult and, I will say, it is not in some way easy to approach a change for which the majority is. However, if we speak in this case and know why such a proposal has been proposed, it is only for lifts, it is for clans and all those obstacles that would make it easier for people who have difficulty access to property, it is, of course, one of those rights that is not created only by age or disability, it is ultimately also a civil gain in the 21st century that every person, when accessing, has a simpler way. Last but not least, we can be 20 years old and only get sick and have one year's hard time accessing our property or our apartment. It can be people who are in a car accident, it can be anything else. And most importantly, this problem mainly arises in multi-room houses up to the 4th floor, because in the previous system it was not built in such housing units. Many, when this right is exercised, including by a change to 75%, will still remain a problem, not because of financial problems, but because of the protection of the site or because it will simply not be possible to do so physically at all, not because of the external lift. We'll support this at the Modern Center. Of course, we will closely follow the amendment of the Housing Law, which will soon come into public debate and try to correct the mistake and, with our arguments, convince all of us together that there are enough 51%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u24	Your Honor! In Levica, we support the proposed amendment to the Housing Law, which is Article 29, which we are talking about all the time about, which is the proportion of the consents of the high-level owners for individual interventions in multi-family houses that drops over 75% of the high-level owners, in particular in the elimination of architectural barriers, it is said that the normal use or accessibility of dwellings can be ensured for the elderly, the sick, the young families, the disabled or those who come to all these people and provide them with different types of assistance. In short, we support the provision of access to their homes for those who have housing. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have received a lot of comments in Levica that need to be taken into account in the amendments to the Housing Law. One information is also clear in Slovenia – 60% of the apartments are older than 40 years of age. All these apartments or buildings in which renovations are needed, from roofs, facades, energy facades that are now being built to the removal of architectural barriers and could still be listed, but the owners of the apartments are not financially rich or socially weak in very large part. And here it will be necessary for their shares when it comes to addressing these problems that I have now mentioned, construction, investment, to provide funds. There will probably be a need for certain public funding resources. This needs to be considered because this problem, which my predecessors and predecessors have already warned me about, will come out strongly. Secondly, I would like to say this, in Levica we point out that we are talking about access to an apartment for those who have an apartment. What about the ones who don't have it? Where does this access come from? This unity, which is now speaking with the changes of all parliamentary groups to 29. Article, it must also be provided when we change the law as a whole, when we talk about the need to increase the share of gross social product allocated to increase the fund of public rentals, non-profits, to increase the housing fund for students who have no place to stay and to increase the fund for older people or the homes of pensioners. In addition, it will be necessary to adopt a measure which will provide the means for this, and this is certainly what Levica keeps reminding us – a change in tax legislation that collects funds from capital and property. Of course, these funds also provide for the subsidisation of the functional costs of people living in these apartments, since most of the population in Slovenia lives at the level of average wage or strong below this average, poverty or even below the poverty threshold. All of this needs to be ensured the normal conditions of stay, an accessible apartment is called. Finally, this is also a policy in Vienna, which is successfully provided where the Password Apartment is for everyone. I don't know why we wouldn't do this in Slovenia in an appropriate financial and systemic way to change the Housing Law. In Levica, we support the amendment of the Housing Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law supplementing the law on the Community of Students within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Jean Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I don't even know what else to say in the third time we're dealing with this, because practically everything has been said. The law we have drafted in the Slovenian Democratic Youth, in the back of our party, and then for the sake of students and students, thank you for the willingness of the LMŠ and SD Group, or the Secretary of State, to bring it into line with the amendment coalition and the law, which is acceptable to all Members and Members, as stated in the second reading. I hope that the position has not changed that today, in the context of the vote, this law is also confirmed, because we have witnessed many stories of the year and year since this law was passed. This correction that we have prepared, of course, is not ideal, it will not save everything, but it is the first step to say that the money of students and students, students and students, is to say that all those who serve the student work, work through a student travel guide, all those for whom membership in student organisations is mandatory and pay the membership fee, spend significantly more transparently. That's the point. Because we know that there have been numerous irregularities, thefts of student money, losses of student money, a business that is not even available to state companies that are still throwing money around, where they steal everything on average, but they have to start somewhere. And I think that this novel is a good extension, so that we can start talking in the future about what form of student organisation we want in the Republic of Slovenia, whether it will continue to be a monopoly of one organisation or a change. Personally, I don't think you can force anyone into membership. We also have different rooms, it's mandatory somewhere, it's not mandatory. They talked about how one of the chambers would fail if membership was no longer compulsory. And it turns out that's not the case. It is true, however, that when finances are no longer as self-evident as they once were, the organisation begins to behave differently in the sense that it otherwise spends its finances to otherwise seek to obtain these finances. It is quite different than if something falls from the sky, read from forced membership or from the state budget, if you want, or from the subject of student work or other forms. Of course, the programme is adapted accordingly. This is good for the Student Organisation of Slovenia as well as for all those who work to make this money accumulate here, either through student work or through projects that the Student Organisation of Slovenia can obtain in such a way or otherwise. In short, we commit them to certain laws, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, public procurement. Then we also place here a salary limit within the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Of course, they will now be subject to supervision in terms of finance. We're not supposed to control them in programs, what they can do and what they can't do. Of course, the programme is supervised when funding is obtained for a particular programme, it is said that if you apply something to the tender, it is logical to then control whether this was all, this programme, which has been declared to have received some funding, carried out to the extent that it has been reported or not. With these minor changes, there are not many articles in this novel, but we are coming up with some major changes that are a start to give the Student Organisation of Slovenia some credibility that we will have an insight into how money is spent and, above all, that money will be spent for what it was and must continue to be intended for, and this is for the good of student organisation in the Republic of Slovenia. I hope this marriage is supported today. Back and forth, I thank all of you for your cooperation. I hope we ever do something like this together again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Jerne Štromajer, to the State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today you have before you the third reading of the Law on the Community of Students, after the last amendment was adopted on the second reading and the last technically and legally regulated version of the law you have before you in your decision-making. In opening, I should like to express my sincere satisfaction and joy and gratitude to the proposaler for a very constructive and fruitful cooperation in the preparation and amendment of this bill itself. As you know, in its coalition agreement, the coalition has already made preparations for the transformation of student organisations as such into legal persons of public law. With this proposal, which came from the opposition, which managed to harmonise all amendments, both substantive and technical, we also regulate this accordingly. Thus, student organisations will be a sui generis legal entity after this new regulation, while maintaining their substantive and organisational autonomy and self-administrative nature. This was also pointed out by students in the Government Council of the Republic of Slovenia for student issues. I believe that this harmonised last version of the law provides for this. At the same time, the law clearly lays down the rules of the game or the legal basis for the public and administrative competence of student organisations: the Accounting Act, in the sense that it applies to public institutions, legally regulated access to information of a public nature, regulations in accordance with the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption, legal provisions relating to public procurement and salary restrictions. As it is said, the law was already at another reading, if I am not mistaken, receiving the unanimous support of the National Assembly. I am pleased that together we have managed to harmonise this bill, which, in my view, redefines the regulation of the student community in the Republic of Slovenia, for which we can only wish that it will continue to be a constructive and good interlocutor and a partner to the state and students, and, above all, that its rules of play and way of action will be clearly regulated so as to avoid, say, such or other irregularities. I believe that today's marriage will receive adequate support, for which I thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bratušek will present the positions of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u30	Dear Members and Members, honourable President! The current law on the student community governs the position, functioning and activities of the student organisation of Slovenia. Since its adoption in 1994, this law has not yet experienced the necessary and fundamental reconstruction, consistent with the social changes of the last twenty years. In the past, there have been several failed attempts to supplement the law. However, the biggest debate on the amendment dates back to 2011, when the public legal personality of the Student Organisation of Slovenia was discussed. At that time, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia attached the Information Officer and decided that the SOS was a legal person of public law. The decisive criteria for such a definition are the way in which it is established, the purpose of its operation, the way in which it is financed, the exercise of public powers and the way in which it becomes a member. This is the case with the SOS and its organisational forms for an organisation acting in the public interest. Funding from the state budget and budgets of local self-government communities is also an important element in defining the legal person of public law. The Administrative Court’s argument was subsequently followed in full by the Supreme Court. Since 2011, we have received at least once from Members in each mandate to address this issue, either at a meeting of the working body or at the hearing of the Student Community Act. Even in the current government, there is no difference. With the amendment of the Act, the SDS Group clearly defines the Student Organisation as a person of public law who will be subject to external supervision by the Court of Auditors. We have repeatedly stressed the importance of transparent public money spending in the SAB Group, and it should be no different with the Student Organisation. It is more than obvious that the current control mechanisms within student organisations do not work. Consumption is poorly controlled and documented, and no one knows how student organisations spend public money. The corrupt practices of public money spending are also constantly being pointed out by the media. In order for some funds to be spent better and better, there is a multi-annual analysis of the social situation of the Eurostudent 6 student population, which proves that 38% of our students are facing major financial problems. In particular, the study emphasises that we have an average high proportion of students who are living with the grant but are also facing financial problems. Therefore, once again, in the SAB Group we support transparent spending of public money, so we will also support the proposal for a law before us that will allow it. To conclude, I must also commend the dialogue and cooperation of all the parliamentary groups we have reached during the legislative process. This doesn't happen often in our house of democracy. I hope and wish that, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, we will step together several times and overcome unnecessary divisions on yours and our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you, Chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to this item of the agenda, we have reached a conclusion today, which is to confirm the text of the amendment of the Law on the Community of Students, which has already been said many times, but unheard of for a long time. The student organisations are undoubtedly one of the key forms of involving the young population in political coexistence in the country. On the other hand, through their forms of action, they advocate the realization and protection of the interests and needs of students in Slovenian universities, academics, higher and higher vocational schools and higher education institutions abroad. They seek to improve the student situation and opportunities for study, the social situation of students and the development of study and interest activities. Given the important role these organisations play, as they include and represent almost 100,000 students and students and manage the multimillion-dollar resources derived mainly from the state budget, the local community budget and the student work, it is so important that all the organisational forms of students act responsibly, economically and transparently. All of this is possible only if they are duly bound by legislation. Today, we have before us the final version of the text of the law, which has been tabled by only one parliamentary group. In the light of all the suggestions made during the previous debates in the National Assembly and in the national working body, the content of the law in the cooperation of all parliamentary groups has been appropriately added. This has been facilitated by the constructive cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, and of course of the participating Members and Members. The definition of a student organisation as a person of public law and a clear record in the law itself is therefore necessary. This is particularly important because of the supervision of the Court of Auditors, the subject of access to information of a public nature and compliance with anti-corruption legislation and public procurement. This will, in the opinion of Desus's Members, help ensure that the operation and functioning of the umbrella organisation and all its organisational forms are transparent, in the interests of students and the achievement of student policy objectives. It is also essential to use exclusively the financial resources available to these organisations, as these funds belong and are intended for students who are provided by law with a reference to the application of accounting rules. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the proposed changes and additions to the law do not affect the autonomy and autonomy of student organisation and action. However, according to our assessment, they will contribute to the greater responsibility of the competent officials to pursue the exclusion of the welfare target for the entire student organisation in the course of their business. We, too, in the Desus Group, are very pleased to have prepared this law or this novel together at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There should be more patterns and conclusions like this. Our Members will unanimously support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the parliamentary position. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Messenger, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. All in attendance, all in attendance! I would like to start with the fact that the Student Organisation of Slovenia has been organised under the Law on the Community of Students since long ago in 1994, in which it has independently regulated its operation and control over the use of financial resources, which of course is wrong. The law has not yet been amended. We wonder why not or what the real reason is. The authorities must have forgotten about the papers they had placed deep under the table. We believe that now is the time to complete the Law. It seems important to us that the rights in the Student Organisation of Slovenia are also acquired by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who have the status of a student in foreign higher education institutions. The student organisation of Slovenia is a legal person of public law with the rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down by this law and its basic act. In the Slovenian National Party Group, it seems relevant to us that the term legal person of public law refers exclusively to the operation and control of the functioning of the student organisation, as provided for by the law in question. We can clearly see that this is an unintended and untransparent use of public funds, as the Student Organisation of Slovenia and its organisational forms are not obliged to respect the Public Procurement Act. The truth is, in subtle ways, they make fun of students, their employers, and all of us taxpayers. Perhaps they do not realize that the main source of funding for the SOS represents diligent students and students, where annual revenues amount to around 12 million euros, which is not enough money? With the amendment of Article 3 of the Law on the Community of Students, everything will now be different. The rules on control over the purposeful use of funds are also weak and not implemented, rare external audits are adapted, internal controls are carried out by students without adequate competences and could list any shortcomings. But none of them are sanctioned because they're probably being protected by someone above us like bone bears. Of course, everything goes on without control and without responsibility, which we strongly oppose. If I draw below the line, the result is that every so long without a trace, millions disappear where no one knows where they've gone. Therefore, it is necessary to make an end of this and to settle the matter in the manner that is necessary. For example, 35 - 37 - year - old students are not able to work through a travel guide or stay in a dormitory. It is only right that the Court of Auditors revises the correctness and prudence of the operation of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and its organisational forms and legal persons in which the Student Organisation of Slovenia or its organisational forms have a dominant influence. Some individuals even have a salary that could be compared with the President of the Government and other directors. We see the solution in that employees' payments should be limited to a public sector pay scale for comparable work. This is why it is essential that their wings are slightly clipped and that employees, managers and members of the management and control bodies at the Student Organisation of Slovenia receive such a salary that the highest gross salary without an allowance at work does not exceed twice the average gross salary in the Republic of Slovenia. We will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because we believe that it is high time for something to move in a positive direction after 25 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group member's position. Mr Aljaž Kovacič on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us regulates student organisation in the Republic of Slovenia after many years. The Law on the Community of Students was adopted in 1994 and has been unchanged ever since. It contains all 14 articles, three of which are transitional and final provisions. The proposed amendment to the Law on the Community of Students initially sought to regulate only the legal personality and supervision of the Court of Auditors over the operations of student organisations and its organisational forms. In our general debate, we voted in favour of the fact that the law was suitable for further consideration, but we were aware that the mere definition of the student organisation for legal persons of public law and the determination of the Court of Auditors as a control mechanism was not sufficient. That is why, together with the applicants, we have sought to complement the bill in a way that will effectively prevent the use of public funds in student organisations from being misused financially by some individuals. We wanted to put in place adequate supervision of the financial operations of student organisations, while maintaining their autonomy in the area of youth policy-making. There is nothing wrong with students' organisations having public funds, but they need to be held accountable, transparent and economical. During the legislative process, we were able to draw up the amendments tabled with the coalition by the proposer and adopted by the mother's working body. With the amendments adopted, we have introduced the following key issues: student organisations will now be legal entities of public law, which means that they will be subject to the same supervision as other public entities, and the supervision of the Court of Auditors has been explicitly recorded. Students' organisations and their organisational forms will have to abide by the rules of public procurement, access to information of a public nature, the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption, and so on. Members of the management and supervision of these organisations shall not be sentenced to imprisonment for more than six months. The remuneration of employees of managers and members of management and control bodies shall not exceed twice the average gross salary paid in the Republic of Slovenia. After many years, the policy finally found agreement on the introduction of public control over the use of public funds available to student organisations. These measures will clearly commit student organisations to legal and more transparent functioning. We are pleased to do so with the broad support of the entire national assembly. In the LMŠ Group, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Mag. Marko Koprivc on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! Let me begin by stressing that the Social Democrats support the integration of students into organisations that care for the rights and interests of students. Student organisations are one of the key forms of student participation in important decisions of the country, and through various good projects they also take care of the socialisation and integration of young people. By adopting this law, the law will now clearly state that the Student Organisation of Slovenia is a person of public law. However, at the first reading of the law, we have already warned that this alone will not be enough to be satisfied, and that is why we have also restricted the salaries of student officials with additional coordination amendments. We have also subjected student organisations to certain restrictions, such as certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act and the Accounting Act. All of this will contribute to greater transparency and transparency in the functioning of student organisations, which will, of course, also contribute to greater confidence in the functioning of this organisation. Students must benefit primarily from student organisation and student organisations. Notwithstanding all the restrictions we have imposed on student organisations, we have made explicit provision in the law to ensure that students maintain a certain degree of autonomy and autonomy when deciding on their own matters. It is crucial that students continue to elect their own representatives, select the people they represent and represent in public, and create the content they will defend in society themselves. Finally, I would particularly like to commend the cooperation of both the proposer, the coalition and the government, so that together we can harmonise the amendments and only the content of the law. Of course, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Branislav Rajić on behalf of the modern centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! In recent months, members of coalition and opposition parties have shown that, in the light of the search for constructive solutions for public policy and thus social problems, cooperation between us is possible. And when we do, it's very welcome. The Law on the Community of Students, which was tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group a few months ago, is an example of constructive cooperation and the search for common solutions. It is so much better because it touches students, the population of young citizens and citizens of our country, for whom it is right to be represented by a well-functioning, open, democratic and transparent student community. After all, the Student Organisation of Slovenia and its organisational forms are brought together to deal with issues of common importance and the realization of common interests and the solidarity of meeting their needs. By replacing today's changes and supplementing the basic student law, the Student Organisation of Slovenia and its organisational forms will act as legal persons of public law with the rights, obligations and responsibilities set out in the Law on the Community of Students and the basic internal acts of student organisation. This is particularly important in terms of operating and controlling their operations. They will be further strengthened by some provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the Public Information Access Act and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Members of the management and control bodies of student organisations and of legal persons affected by their last dominant influence shall not be persons sentenced to imprisonment for more than six months. The Court of Auditors’ competence to revise the regularity and prudence of the operations of student organisations is clearly and unequivocally recorded. The management of business books and the production of annual reports are more clearly defined. Finally, the maximum gross salary will also be limited to employees of managers and members of management and control bodies. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal of the law because we expect these changes to actually bear fruit in practice. This is in fact the fundamental objective of the proposed, more democratic, transparent and open student community, and our contribution to the final reputation of the student barons. I can conclude the position of the SMC Group as an aphorism. We're for student vouchers, not student barons! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Miha Kordish on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levica, we support amendments to the Student Community Act, and in the end, the proposed law is copied in key parts from the previous proposals of the Left, but unfortunately not in all parts. As each interested association needs a significant degree of autonomy in order to carry out its tasks successfully, it is understandable that the State has undertaken a minimum of legal regulation. In the context of the free market and the predominance of partisan interests over common interests, a number of problematic practices of a politically undemocratic, commercially non-transparent organisation have developed over two and a half decades, in some cases also in the illegal functioning of the student organisation. All of this has led to the unheard-of earnings of student officials and directors of individual institutions, the wealth of some well-connected individuals through various advisory and other contracts, controversial and corrupt real estate transactions and a huge democratic deficit within the organisation. Under the heading, the student organisation today is a model example of the inefficient and unintended use of public funds and the use of the entire student community. The disputed behaviour of the SOS is in fact a direct consequence of non-democratic practices in student organisations. Students’ organisations systematically limit the power of actual students to influence the functioning of organisations that are supposed to represent them. The problem is complex, so I will only stay in well-documented cases of intimidation and violence at student elections and the fact that the current set of SOS has occupied its positions with a 6% voter participation. In addition, students can choose their representatives or they have only been selected in one college, in the remaining colleges, which are constituencies, if we pull the analogys, because only so many candidates have been nominated as the cities have been awarded. Therefore, there is virtually no political choice in student democracy. The organisation, which is supposed to represent the interests of all students and students, has long since lost all legitimacy in the eyes of these students. In the past, we wanted to limit disputed electoral procedures or establish an appropriate legal framework to prevent the worst electoral irregularities within the SOS and encourage participation among students. Unfortunately, this time the applicant did not address this problem. For the time being, however, there is nothing to suggest that the student functionaries described would eliminate them on their own. The law we are making today will undoubtedly ensure better control and transparency over the use of resources and limit the worst practices of corruption. Despite the amendments adopted, the SOS remains uncommitted to respect for the Public Finance Act, which suggests that it should be addressed in the future. Nor does the law provide for any sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the measures taken. Thus, it is entirely possible that well-intentioned proposals, such as the limitation of the highest possible salary for senior officials of twice the average monthly washing machine, will not be implemented in practice. However, this change is a step forward, although only a partial step forward, so we will support it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Tadeja Shuštar, you have an extraordinary honour, your position is the last position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. The operation of the Student Organisation of Slovenia over the past 25 years, with the exception of rare exceptions, can by no means be proud of students or citizens, but even less of the people who led the organisation. In the media, we have been able to monitor the suspicions of a number of serious irregularities and corruption in the functioning of the organisation. Suspicious real estate and construction transactions, overpaid orders and supplies, suspected corrupt transactions involving connected persons, purchases of yachts and restaurants, and the shamelessly high earnings of student officials who are still in their late 40s, are still students. New Slovenia has always advocated that the SOS must act ethically, transparently and that it must be bound by legislation that regulates the functioning of indirect budgetary users by an analogy. The SOS receives more than €10 million per year from the student service concession fee. It is the money of students who are themselves a vulnerable social group, and of course it is the money that should be allocated to students, to new student homes, to subsidies for their diet, to enable students who cannot afford it. From this title NSI advocates the full transparency of the operation of the SOS: commitment to public procurement, the provision of business audits by the Court of Auditors and the possibility of public access to documentation in accordance with the Public Information Access Act. The amendment adopted at second reading, which speaks of the commitment of the SOS to public procurement, is welcome. We also agree with the revision of the regularity and prudence of the Court of Auditors. It is necessary to ensure that SOS officials are committed to the provisions of the Anti-Corruption, Property Reporting and Business Ban Act. It is probably not necessary to stress that student officials cannot have a higher salary than the President of the Government and ministers, so this is also limited to a maximum of twice the average gross salary paid in the Republic of Slovenia in the preceding month. The amendments are also agreed by the SOS, and in this regard it also proposes the adoption of an amendment to the proposal of the Law on the Community of Students. In New Slovenia, we believe that the SOS budget, which is more than €10 million, is too high. The money earned by the students belongs to the students because they spent their time and energy on this money. They don't have to give a share for student officials' salaries. We want part of the concession fee money to be allocated directly to the construction of student homes and to the grant fund for talented and socially disadvantaged students. The bill follows the positions of New Slovenia and we will support it. In the future, however, we would like to have broad discussions on how to bring the operation of the SOS closer to students and how to allocate part of the concession fee directly to students.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. With this, honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. At the same time, I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 5. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for a law supplementing the Republic of Slovenia's legislation on measures to protect the stability of banks after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine Members and Members with first-signed Mr Luke Mesec. At its 15th session, on 8 July 2019, the Finance Committee considered the draft law as a working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Robert Polnar, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u46	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia should be provided with suitable land for the construction of dwellings and the achievement of the objectives set out in the Resolution on the National Housing Programme for 2015 to 2025. Over the past ten years, the Housing Fund has built 611 apartments as an investor, with the purchase of 844 additional apartments, a total of a thousand 455, I stress, over the last ten years. The current Slovenian need for public rental apartments is more than 9 thousand 100 units for illustration. We are faced with two different ways of encouraging public housing. Both are based on the transfer of real estates, in particular land suitable for this purpose, from the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the Housing Fund. In the Desus Group we see no difficulty in transferring property to the Housing Fund. The underlying problem is the mode of transfer, whether paid or unpaid. The Bank Claims Management Company was established to assist in the restructuring of banks of systemic importance that were in difficulty. Following the transfer of claims to the DUTB, its main function is to provide the highest possible return for the country and indirectly for its biggest financiers, taxpayers are said to be. The second, also important task of DUTB, is to repay the value of the State guarantee bonds issued as a payment for the transferred assets and to generate the required return on the initial paid capital by the Republic of Slovenia. In the event of an unpaid transfer, the Republic of Slovenia would not be paid. As an independent business entity, DUTB would take away the property owned by it. The result would be an ongoing loss-making operation, which would also have an impact on the planned surplus of the State sector in which the Banks Claims Management Company clearly judges. On 15 June this year, the Government, as the DUTB Assembly, adopted a decision imposing on the company the obligation to transfer the most suitable and suitable properties to the Housing Fund. In doing so, it is important that the suitability of the transferred property has been identified by the Fund itself. The transfer will be carried out at market value estimates. As a result of these operations, the value of DUTB assets will not decrease. The value of the property will be replaced by the corresponding cash. In the Desus Group, we assess the Government's approach through the payment of real estate transfers from DUTB to the Housing Fund as a business and accounting technically more appropriate than a huge unpaid transfer. On transferred properties, it will be possible to build about a thousand 950 apartments and some over a hundred houses. The time and financial dimension of the conduct of transactions depends on the capacity of the public fund. The transfer of these properties is foreseen by the end of 2019. The objective pursued by the Government with regard to the transfer of real estate from the DUTB to the Housing Fund will thus be achieved without changes in the law and without causing losses to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, which is, this is not overemphasis, in 100% of state ownership. For all of this, we were unable to give support to the law supplementing the Law on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks proposed by our colleagues from the Levica Group. The legislative procedure ended with the rejection of the proposal by the Committee on Finance. In particular, I would like to point out that the Committee on Finance has 19 members and members. The proposal was rejected by two votes in favour and 14 against. This, I think, also points to the kind of consistency of the proposed legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you, Member, for presenting the Group's position. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Jani Ivanuša. Mr. Ambassador, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all present, especially to the President and Secretary of State with the team! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the customer Levica has a good purpose in transferring apartments from the DUTB to the Housing Fund. I have never supported DUTB because it is a very controversial society with very controversial activities. It is known which political parties and individuals have served in this self-service restaurant with outstanding discounts. Dutb sold all the properties at a price. This was not the purpose of his creation. The investigative committee now identifies controversial transactions. People at the hearings tell me what was going on. DUTB should be terminated as soon as possible because it caused too much damage. However, Slovenian taxpayers were once again injured, for the first time by unsecured loans and for the second time by undervalued sale of secured property. It would be much better if the real estate were sold by the banks themselves. But it's about non-profit housing. Slovenians are never entitled to a non-profit rent anyway. Slovenians do not gloat and are ashamed to walk around social work centres or municipalities and feats for housing. This is what those who are unemployed and have time do. If two Slovenians apply for a non-profit flat with a minimum wage, the 50th circus is in the waiting line, then officials find that they are too rich. There are many unemployed foreigners with lots of children ahead of them, and that is not right. In Slovenia we should first get the apartment Slovenians. If we don't take care of our own people, no one will. Slovenians can only get their own real estate with their own work and money. That means you've been puffing for 30 years, you're not going anyway, and you're living an ascetic life. But if you're lucky you get fucked up by banks with Swiss francs, you'll pay off your credit for the rest of your life. Slovenians could already have a large proportion of non-profit dwellings if it were not for that Jazbinski law when people bought social housing for change. The Slovenian transition was a disaster in all respects. It was a time when everyone stole as much as possible. And now that they've robbed each other, equality, the rule of law and human rights. At times, even employers gave loans to workers. I would like to know how many Slovenian employers would grant their employees a loan today. Interest rates among connected persons are extremely low, much more than interest rates on banks. However, employers would borrow their workers from their companies and not then go to work in Austria or elsewhere. I also wonder whether Levica has calculations of how many non-profit apartments could be built from the total amount of debts that Slovenian courts have written down in the simplified compulsory settlement proceedings. Do you? I know you don't. Funding for non-profit dwellings in Slovenia is more than enough, but political elites who decide on the Slovenian budget do not have their own need for non-profit housing. Those who want non-profit housing cannot finance electoral campaigns, such as Social Democrats or SAB parties. However, it can be financed by those who will build the second track and the third development axis and the tunnel of the Karavanka and could also be listed. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not support the bill simply because non-profit dwellings in Slovenia are mostly intended for foreigners and not for Slovenes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mag. Carmen Furman, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The proposed amendment to the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks proposed that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims in addition to its core activity, namely the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks, shall also exercise public interest in the area of housing policy, following the proposal to amend the law of review by free transfer of the property of the bad bank to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that in Slovenia we face a lack of housing. These are especially felt by young people and their families, who are often severely limited in the resolution of the housing problem. We are also aware of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we have already prepared, in the previous term, legal solutions to address the housing problem, which, unfortunately, have been rejected on your part. Unlike the proposer of the proposed novel in our party, we particularly want a long-acting housing market so that everyone can get to their suitable apartment in accordance with needs and capabilities. For this reason, economic development and regulation of housing prices on the real estate market are primarily needed, so that they do not grow into the sky and are also accessible to people. Nor does the proposed solution in the amendment follow either the objectives of the current law or the operating principles of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, which, after all, draws attention to in its opinion also to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Therefore, in the light of all the changes that have been made in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we certainly cannot support, or we cannot be inclined to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Ms Andreja Zabret on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! At the July 15th urgent session of the Committee on Finance, we voted against the bill. Allow me to list some reasons for such a decision. The resolution of the housing problem of young people has been highlighted as one of the key challenges by the parties to the coalition contract. The transfer of DUTB properties to the Housing Fund, which represents a concrete step in this direction, is therefore also enshrined in the cooperation agreement between the coalition and Levico parties. All of this reinforces the conviction that we have been demonstrating over and over, and this is that the transfer of these lands is a key step in solving the housing problem of young people. In the way we do this, we have found no common ground with the proposers. During the hearing, we have two different paths to the goal. First, it must be said that the Government, as the DUTB Assembly, had already adopted a decision in June imposing the obligation of DUTB to pay off the transfer of properties to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This Decision mentions nine locations. The housing fund selected three locations as very suitable, measuring 115 thousand square meters. Of this is one location in Ljubljana, one location in Nova Gorica and in Nova Mesto and six locations in the measure 128 thousand square meters, which were identified by the Housing Fund as suitable. The locations selected were those chosen by the Housing Fund itself as suitable. The Government has already taken sufficient measures to achieve the objective that the bill's proponents want to achieve and to which we are committed ourselves. However, it did so without prejudice to existing legislation, without prejudice to the financial situation of the DUTB and with a controlled interference in the balance of the State sector. The fact is that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is in the state sector and that its expenditure affects the debt or state of the country. Therefore, it is a government proposal to increase the earmarking of the Housing Fund when this happens, to buy out these properties, and the DUTB gets the funds and can return them to the banks. The DUTB took over bad claims that were secured by various properties. Its task is to finance the investments it has and to repay the debt by selling them back. This means that the so-called free transfer would have concrete consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that nothing has been done in our country over the past decade to address the housing problem of young people. It is true that we have also had a crisis period in between, but this is not the case for the last few years. That is also why we have set this as one of the key challenges of this coalition in the coalition. We believe that the way forward in this area has been done by the Government is right. Above all, it is good to have a controlled intervention in the balance of the state sector. After all, both the competent ministries and the Housing Fund agree with him. Of course, from this point forward, we must all focus together on the goal that we have in common with the bill-makers, and that is that in the coming years as many young families as possible can move into some normally accessible housing where they can also save something. Young people are an important part of society and represent our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr Jani Prednik, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u54	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Banks Stability Act constitutes a legal framework whereby, at the height of the financial crisis, the Banks Claims Management Company, which has taken on bad claims from rehabilitated banks, and from the State to capital and guarantee, in order to manage and sell claims, at least part of the huge investment that we have invested in bank recovery by citizens and citizens. The DUTB portfolio, which extended the legal changes in its previous mandate until 2022, also includes a number of land, buildings and other properties that could also be used to address an ever-increasing housing shortage. Slovenia has been leaving housing policy since independence and, in particular, housing construction to the market. The absence of a clear plan and a constant lack of public funds mean that housing is being built for the market and for the needs of a narrow customer segment, with an average purchasing power. Everyone else is left to the market and the lease. This is due to lack of plans and overconfidence in the market. The institution, which is most called for the construction of affordable apartments, the Republic Housing Fund, has devoted itself more to experimental construction for the market in recent decades than to increasing the fund of rentable and affordable apartments. This is, of course, a logical consequence of the legal framework of the Housing Fund and the constant lack of both money and suitable land for construction. Therefore, this spring the Housing Fund himself proposed to the Government to provide DUTB with certain properties that would be suitable for the construction of a larger number of accessible dwellings. The Fund identified specific suitable properties on which it could soon start construction. This constructive approach, however, cut off the applicant's decision to submit a proposal for a law to transfer to the Housing Assembly all the residential properties currently available to the DUTB. In doing so, they did not take into account the appropriateness of individual real estates for this type of construction, nor the need for different areas. In particular, they forgot that by transferring land to another owner we have not yet provided housing. It is also necessary to provide financial resources for this purpose and to prevent further trips to the field of housing for wealthy buyers, otherwise we are imposing a burden on him that he will not be able to bear and risk that the Fund will also deal with the sale of land, which is not his mission. Of course, in view of its functioning, the DUTB is not in any position to deserve its interests to be defended by politicians, but we must be aware that the DUTB has been set up to cover citizens' contributions to bank recovery. This already so difficult to achieve will be even less possible if we uncritically transfer its assets to others. We have warned the Social Democrats all the time that the law is being considered that, in view of the early start of housing construction, it is most reasonable for the Housing Fund to be transferred to those properties which it considers to be suitable for this purpose. Such a change of law is not necessary because the decision of the government is sufficient. The dialogue with the government has shown that the Housing Fund can be transferred relatively quickly between four and nine suitable lands where the Fund could quickly start building affordable dwellings. The transfer of all assets of the DUTB to the Housing Fund at this time would cause both the Fund and the DUTB more problems than the benefits and both make it difficult to achieve the objective for which they were established. The committee responsible has thus adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In the SD Group of Members, however, it is added that public investment is primarily important to solve housing problems. Only through the long-term provision of public money for housing can we make sure that the size, quality and accessibility of dwellings are finally improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Matey Udovč, on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u56	Your Honor! At today's plenary session, the National Assembly will conclude the legislative procedure for the amendment of the law, by which the Levica Group wanted to ensure the free transfer of housing and building land from the DUTB to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The Left has decided to submit the novel for fear that the Government's decision to pay off the most suitable real estate transfers from the DUDB to the Fund is illegal and harmful. On 13 June this year, the government decided to transfer the most suitable real estate owned by DUTB to the Housing Fund in return and at market price. The fund has already identified three locations of the most suitable properties for the construction of public rental apartments. This transfer is foreseen by the end of this year. For other suitable properties, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will have to prepare an appropriate professional justification for the transfer and construction of public rental apartments by the end of 2019. As early as April this year, the Fund proposed the transfer of land for housing construction in priority areas where the need for housing is greatest. These land will be used in housing cooperatives and municipal funds projects, where private investors will also be able to participate. The objective is to ensure long-term housing supply. We have not supported the SMC's proposal by the Group of Members of the Left because we are convinced that the government's path is correct and leads to defined objectives. The legislative process has shown that the proposal of the Left is not in line with the principles of the DUB and makes the implementation of the National Housing Programme more difficult. In doing so, the Ministry of Finance has also drawn attention to the public financial risks posed by this proposal. The proposed solution was also indirectly recognised by Levica by introducing an amendment to the first article, which no longer provided for a free transfer to the DUTB, but to the country and then from the country to the Fund, which translates into the recapitalisation of the DUTB. The business of DUTB has an impact on the balance of the state sector and is also under the control of the European Commission. The DUTB must prepare data for the calculation of the deficit or surplus estimate according to the ESA methodology for the current year. In addition, the proposal of the Left would cause more complications. Neither would there be a free transfer following the proposal of the amendment of the Left, of course there would be no pay-off transfer at first stage, but the land should still be paid by the State by recapitalising the bad bank on the basis of valuations. In this regard, we would like to point out that the Government's decisions on the transfer of payments are only the first part of the agreement whereby the State is to recapitalise the Housing Fund in the same terms, and the Ministry of Environment and Space within the framework of the valuation will have to draw conclusions on the recapitalisation of the Fund. The objectives of the government's actions are the same as those of the Left, only the way is different. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service also confirms the correctness of the Government's actions. The debate over the dispute with Levica about the preparedness of the measures is even the most illustrated of the mags. Mr Črtomir Remic, Director of the Housing Fund, said in his statement that he did not see the reasons for the adoption of the Law of the Left. In the final phase in both cases, the result will be similar because in our case, the money from this purchase will come through the bad bank or return to the budget. In the SMC, we estimate that in this case it is more of a pear left than a serious proposal. In the previous mandate of 2015, when Levica was already a parliamentary party, the National Assembly discussed, on a proposal from Members, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Funds. At the time, the applicants wanted DUTB and the public funds set up for the implementation of the housing policy to allow a preliminary right to purchase the real estate acquired by DUTB in the context of the implementation of the measures to remedy the banking system. In the course of the examination of this Law of the Member States, it appeared that it was not possible to pay for the transfer, so the possibility of pre-emptive and new loans was given. The government exported the above-mentioned DUTB properties from further traffic and provided for the recapitalisation of the Housing Fund and the purchase by means of recapitalisation funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr Luka Moon on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Perhaps you have noticed, last Friday afternoon a group of young people, especially a few older students, who are standing on their feet and who have opened Parliament before them, where are we going to sleep tomorrow? Because these students have no place to sleep because of the unsustainable prices of property in Ljubljana and they slept in front of parliament in protest that night. It was a cold and long fall night, so they cut it short with poetry. Poetry was ads from real estate portals: one bedroom apartment, 35 square meters in BS3, rent 590 euros per month plus costs; wardrobe, 25 square meters in Brinja, rent 350 euros per month plus costs. Or, if you happen to be a young family, a two-bedroom apartment in Brdo, 70 square meters, rent a thousand 100 euros per month plus costs or more than the average Slovenian salary. How did we come to this? British documentary director Adam Curtis drove through London with cameras about a decade ago and said: "Look, these columns and what you see out the window in front of me, these are no longer apartments, homes, they became investments at the time of the financing of Airbnb and big inequalities, just buy money. These properties can only be afforded by those who are deeply creditable and have millions of euro capital for themselves, because prices are so high, and then, of course, at even higher prices, these apartments continue to be broadcast. And that is also the situation of our generation in Slovenia. Politics, such as the policy of this government, are increasingly divided into two castes; those who have – in particular – property – and those who are placed in a mercenary position and sentenced or to life-long repayment of loans or to life-long repayment of rents. The Left therefore responds to the need to ensure that housing policy becomes one of the fundamental policies of the social state. You'll say it's socialism. Of course it is socialism, but such socialism is normal in Austria, Germany, Scandinavia, in all those countries where Slovenia is supposed to follow suit. The coalition also agreed last summer that this should be the foundation of the social state and that it should be ensured that 10,000 public rental apartments will be built in the next two mandates. In Levica this year we tried to give this politician some meat and start. We are writing a new housing law with the ILO, which will come into public debate shortly. To start with, we have proposed a law on the transfer of property from a poor bank to the Housing Fund. The matter is quite simple; from one state pocket to another state pocket. Instead of housing on a bad bank, it would have turned into a purposeful use, so it could have accommodated 6,000 people, including, of course, those young people who stood before parliament last Friday. Now part of the coalition has responded to this with a new poetry that we have been listening to today – it can be read by young people next time – that it is necessary to know that the operation of the DUB has an impact on the balance of the state sector if we are even aware of the ESA methodology and so on. At the same time, I warn you that precisely such technical excuses are the reason why nothing has moved in housing policy over the last 10 years. And if you're wondering if there'll be anything in the next ten, you're already answering. Although we are hearing that we have the same goal, only two different ways, namely, that the government, instead of carrying our marriage home, is expected to pay off, it was promised that three would be transferred this summer or in the fall. Now there are three months around, these three properties are still on a bad bank, and the transfer is not a ghost, not a hearing. With this young man, you somehow answer the question they asked us on Friday: “Where are we going to sleep tomorrow?” The answer is, apparently, a while longer in the market of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the housing issue, we must be very careful and in New Slovenia we would like to reach some consensus here when it comes to housing, especially for young families; a similar consensus as reached at the previous item on the agenda of this meeting. On the proposal of Levice, let me just remind you, which in some way forced the coalition, the Real Estate Intermediation Act was passed here a while ago, and one of the Slovenian diaries says that this novel law has raised the rent. So much for that. Colleagues and colleagues! For a while now, we have been facing acute housing problems in Slovenia for several years. Especially for young families, apartments are extremely difficult to reach. Unfortunately, it can be noted that not the previous government and not the current government have so far failed to bring a proposal for a housing law to the National Assembly to resolve the housing issue. The housing law is therefore crucial and the budget is crucial. There is no law, but there is no budget. The Levica Group proposes that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, in addition to fulfilling its basic activities, also pursues a public interest in housing policy. Following the amendment proposed by Levica, the Bank Claims Management Company should provide data on the acquired property within 14 days of the acquisition of each property to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Fund should inform the Bank Claims Management Company within one month whether the property is suitable for transfer. If the property is, according to the assessment of the Fund, suitable for the achievement of the objectives of the active housing policy, the DUTB shall transfer it free of charge within 14 days of receipt of the notification to the Fund. The appropriate real estate already held by the DUTB must be transferred to the Fund by 1 October 2019. That's what you say by Tuesday. Nova Slovenija has also helped to ensure that the law, thank God, has already been stopped on the home work body, this is on the Committee on Finance. But such solutions, such proposals, in fact, also raise the issue of the rule of law. In New Slovenia, we firmly believe that the proposed solution is not in line with the objectives of the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and the principles of the business of DUTB. Article 3(1) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is as follows: by measures to strengthen the stability of banks to ensure the stability of banks and the financial system; by enabling, where appropriate, effective restructuring of undertakings whose partner or creditor has become DUTB in order to implement measures to strengthen the stability of banks; by facilitating the identification of irregularities leading to loans and investments that have been transferred as risk items to the DUTB; and by implementing measures to strengthen the stability of banks by ensuring the economic use of the budget funds and their recovery. The exercise of public interest in housing policy with unpaid transfers of real estate to the Fund is not compatible with the objectives of the law. In doing so, as has already been said, it should be borne in mind that the proposed arrangement should be implemented into more – that is, what Levic proposes – within more than six years of the establishment of the Bank's Claims Management Company and three years before its intended termination, that is 31. 12. 2022. It is also necessary to clarify whether and to what extent it will be affected by the rights or legal positions of DUTB creditors, which is why we point out in particular the principle of trust in law as an element of the rule of law and quote one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court in 1999: "The right state must respect the principle of the protection of trust in law, legal security and other principles of the rule of law. The principle of the protection of trust in the law requires that individual decisions that are legal and adopted without pre-eminence and in their nature are not of a transitional nature. The law may exercise its function of regulating social life if it is as permanent and permanent as possible.” Thank you very much for your attention, and I apologize for exceeding the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you. I didn't mean to interrupt. Mr Franz Kramar on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. This is the final presentation of the Group's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u62	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members and Members! The proposer, the Levica Group, has introduced an amendment to the legislative procedure to the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The objective pursued by the proposer is the free transfer of all real estate owned by DUB to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia on 1 October of this year. The housing fund is then intended to place apartments on the market or, in the case of habitable land, build residential buildings on them. The proposed solution, according to the proposal, would practically increase the number of public rentals overnight, thus building new housing units. Housing policy resolution is one of the priorities of this government, as it comes from the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025 and the Coalition Treaty. It is a challenge supported by all coalition parties and the proposer, but it is not only an idea to implement certain solutions, but a realistic and balanced path that will be in line with existing legislation and will not undermine the financial stability of the country. At first glance, the idea of the proposer is very attractive; therefore, the DUTB is supposed to stop selling real estate and transfer it to the Housing Fund, from which citizens and citizens would go directly into the hands of citizens. After examining the proposal, we find that property represents land and that it is misleading to prevent citizens from staying on these land. During the extensive debate and the participation of all stakeholders and competent ministries, it was agreed that the government had adopted the same objectives for improving housing policy as the applicant had pursued. However, the main difference is in the way to the goal. The proposer wants all real estate transferred to the Fund, whether or not they are useful to the Fund. In this way they could transfer to the Fund the huge financial burden imposed by ownership and maintenance of these properties. It was found that it is only appropriate to transfer to the Fund those properties which the Fund considers to be usable. An immediate transfer would also mean a burden for the Housing Fund in terms of the appropriate assets and personnel available to the DUTB, since the task of the DUTB is to sell real estate on the market at the highest possible price. At the moment, however, the fund does not have the money, as it builds a thousand 628 housing units, which has 152 million Euros and a total of 50 million Euros of leased loans. If we shift the burden of maintaining, managing and selling these DUTB properties to the Fund, we are actually jeopardising the funds that are now intended to build thousands of 628 apartments. Another obstacle to the proposed route is the free transfer of real estate, since this has a negative impact on the financial stability of DUTB and on its main task, namely the reduction of the debt of the country. The negative effects on the state budget are also inevitable because of all of this. The government does not need a law to transfer real estate from the DUTB, as the latter can already make a decision. The government has already done so and has taken appropriate measures to ensure the free transfer of real estate, which the Housing Fund has considered appropriate for the implementation of housing policy. In particular, the Government, as the DUTB Assembly, imposed this obligation to repay the transfer of those properties that the Fund will consider appropriate. Three properties will be transferred to the Fund this year and another nine will be transferred to the Fund. The real estate transfer will also increase the assets of the Housing Fund. However, the Fund's task is to prepare appropriate investment and business documentation that will enable the State to invest adequately in the construction of housing for end-users. This is a deliberate and balanced government action that we support in the SAB Group. In the SAB, we are convinced that we are building the foundations for establishing a necessary housing scheme that will allow young people to rent and buy state-owned apartments at a lower price. We need to make it easier and faster for young people to become independent, for today an average youth employee is not allowed to rent a decent apartment or buy a decent apartment. The housing situation of young people is thus almost entirely dependent on their parents in the vast majority of cases, and this must be changed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — Second defence of the draft law on the procedure for the judicial protection of former holders of qualifying liabilities of banks. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Members! The proposal for a law eliminates shortcomings in the judicial protection of investors in subordinated liabilities and shares issued by banks prior to the imposition of extraordinary measures in 2013 and 2014. In its decision of October 2016, the Constitutional Court found that investors have no possibility of effective judicial protection against Banka Slovenije’s decisions to delete those instruments. In particular, the Constitutional Court drew attention to the large imbalance in access to data and information on the basis of which the Bank of Slovenia calculated the solvency threshold and imposed the necessary amount of capital and capital adequacy to cover the credit and other risks to which banks were exposed during the global financial crisis. In the drafting of the law, we followed in the first place the objective of providing procedural provisions for the constitutionally effective judicial protection of former holders. In the proceedings before the court, it will be necessary to determine whether the exceptional measures have been lawfully and correctly implemented. Since the Constitutional Court has established that the burden of proof on the Bank of Slovenia is on the Bank of Slovenia, it will have to prove that the individual former holder of the emergency measure has not suffered a greater loss than would have suffered in the event of the bankruptcy of the bank. The purpose of the law is thus not to determine the responsibility for the resulting bank hole or the dimension of the bank hole. This will be decided by a court of law. The aim of the law is to enable the effective protection of the rights of both natural and legal persons, for which a number of procedural acts are envisaged in the law: in particular the right and manner of access to data, the possibility of collective enforcement of judicial protection and the definition of the burden of proof. Procedural actions will allow for the comprehensive illumination of the deletions made and, in particular, an assessment of whether the methods for valuation of bank investments and collateral for loans have been properly applied. In a fair procedure, it will not be necessary to establish the legality of the administrative decision on an exceptional measure, but it will have to be demonstrated, as stated by the Constitutional Court in recital 124, why it was necessary to delete the measure in the circumstances in question. The complexity of the legal matter is also reflected in the very broad public debate and public controversy on this issue. A broad opinion was given by the Legislative and Legal Service. A number of coordinations have been carried out by the proposer so that a large part of the comments have been taken into account during the legislative procedure in the home working body. The coalition supported the proposals of the amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups regarding the disclosure of the identity of the complainants and clarified the reasons for these amendments, which ensure their constitutional consistency. Nor does the law prejudice retroactively the legal regulation in force at the time of the removal of shares and subordinated liabilities. That's what we've been paying special attention to. In this light, it was not acceptable to propose that the law should, retroactively, determine how the funds of banks and the collateral for loans should be valued. The law is thus to the extent possible procedurally directed and is without prejudice to the material provisions in force at the time of the imposition of the measures. The government proposes to support the legislative proposal in the second reading, including the four amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. At the same time, please, in accordance with the option provided by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at the 11th regular session, also make a third reading and definitively confirm the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u65	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 12th meeting, on 28 June and 13 September, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on the procedure for the judicial protection of former holders of qualified bank obligations submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure at its 8th meeting on 21 May this year, the National Assembly held a general discussion and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. In addition to the draft law, the Committee received opinions, views and proposals, as well as comments from nineteen organisations and institutions. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments were tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko, the Coalition's Group of Members, the NSI Group, the SMC Group of Ambassadors and the SAB Group of Ambassadors. At the 12th meeting of the Committee on 28 June this year, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the main solutions to the draft law and stressed that the main objective is to legalise the procedure for the protection of former holders of qualified obligations, taking into account the existing anti-constitutional legal void in the Banking Act. In doing so, he explained that the procedure before the court would establish the correctness and legality of the implementation of exceptional measures and the existence of grounds for possible compensation. The representatives of the eight organisations and institutions presented their views and opinions below. The debate initially criticised the large number of amendments tabled and expressed the view that the proposal for a law was unthinkable and superficial. With regard to the amendments tabled by Ambassador Jožet Tank, the amendment's proposal explained that they address the issue more appropriately and introduce solutions that would enable the injured stakeholders to obtain a fair amount of compensation more easily and more quickly. On the contrary, other debaters considered the proposed solutions to be rather complex and potentially long-term, but took into account the Constitutional Court's decision and properly regulated the case-law. At the 13th meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, on 10 September, drew attention to some of the comments made by the services in the written opinion, which remained valid despite the new amendments tabled and proposed by the various proposers. It highlighted in particular the solutions for determining the local jurisdiction of the courts, the public disclosure of the data on the applicants, the limitation of the amount of compensation and the possible threat to the autonomy of the Bank of Slovenia. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted the amendment for a new Article 16.a. In accordance with Article 130(2) and Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups for 27 articles and for the new 11 articles. The Committee also adopted the amendments of the SAB Group to the title of the law and to the new four articles. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of Ambassador Jožet Tank to Article 1; it did not adopt the proposal for an amendment of the Committee of Ambassador Luke Mesca to Article 3; and it did not adopt the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 5. In this way, the amendments of Ambassador Jožet Tank to Article 2 and to Article 33, the proposal for amendments of the Committee of Ambassador Jernej Vrtovac to Article 12, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12 and the proposal for amendments of the Committee of Members of Luke Mesca to Articles 21 and 25. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 8th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23 September 2019. I am thus putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? I can only see one raised hand. More! Then we will open the debate or the application for a debate. Please sign in. We have two reported discussers. Whoever couldn't sign up now will be in the next round when I open the next round of applications for the same amendment. First he gets the word, Mr. Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The decommissioning of holders of bonds and shares in the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks in 2013 and 2014 is indeed a problem of the political and economic sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the European Union. The political framework of the European Union is reflected through a legal assessment of whether the opinions of the European Commission are a binding legal source for Slovenia. In August 2013, the European Commission adopted State aid rules for banks where the responsibility for the rehabilitation of banks is not taken over by the central bank as the last lender, nor by the state, but primarily by the owners. The subordinated debts must be written off or converted into equity shares. In autumn 2013, this recommendation became part of the Banking Act, and in this way we also received a controversial deletion. At the time it was considered a recommendation, today it is a system of operation of the Banking Union. It is essential that both the setting of state aid borders and potential bankruptcys are a mixture of unusual political interventionism, economic volunteerism and legal disorder. Two issues are particularly important in the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia. The first is whether the European Commission itself has exceeded the competences of the European Treaties in its communications on banking and State aid procedures and has therefore demanded too much in the wrong way. Secondly, in order to ensure the stability of the banking system, the Slovenian political and monetary authorities have resorted to excessive measures and are inadmissibly encroaching on private property. The constitutionality assessment procedure referred to the decision to terminate the obligation of banks to its committees in special circumstances and to the exceptional measures of the Bank of Slovenia. This measure does not provide effective judicial protection for deletions and there is no real possibility of complaints against the decisions and actions of the Bank of Slovenia. The rule of law is crucial here. The Slovenian Constitutional Court shall defend it on behalf of the protection of the rights of the released holders of qualified obligations. It is not unusual, however, that it is constantly entangled in the banking field and in the legal mess that accompany the European monetary union. The crucial issue is actually the legitimacy, economic, political and procedural, imposed European solutions, the assessment of the superiority of the rules, the limits of legal and political responsibility for the consequences of certain decisions taken by the European Commission and the European Central Bank. The European Union is not a country and Slovenia is, therefore, Slovenia's constitutional court is its final defence line by the logic of the matter. In the event of a banking crisis, perhaps the fate of the erasure is important. But it is crucial to defend the economic sovereignty of the state, the fundamental postulates of the market economy, such as property and bond relations. The legalisation of a judicial remedy for former holders of qualified liabilities by banks is the fundamental purpose of the legal proposal. The provision of a full overview of the instruments relating to the deletion relates mainly to valuations of the value of banks' assets, the results of the asset quality review and the results of the tests of resistance to macroeconomic shocks for each bank individually. On the basis of the examinations made, sufficient time is provided for the preparation of the application. The law has a total of 34 articles, only five articles have not been amended in the second reading of the bill. After two discussions at the Committee on Finance's meeting, I believe that in the future, we will also be faced with different alternatives, in particular in the following important areas covered by the law: the application of the rules of fair procedure in economic disputes, the second area – the establishment of the exclusive competence of the Maribor District Court, the third very important point where stakeholders differ, is the establishment of a virtual data room which will be published in it, and in particular access and access to data in the virtual data room. I think that now I can say that we will not be able to unify our views on the modalities and deadlines for bringing lawsuits against the Bank of Slovenia, and that the dispute will also be the subject of the regulation of the determination of the court fee, including the regulation of the group of experts. Those two segments, which, according to my personal judgment, are the most important, are the financing of possible compensations and the interest rate of late interest on which the amount of damage found is paid. Ladies and gentlemen, when deciding on such important legislative or legal material, we must not be recalculated, but, above all, we must look for the right choice. The implementation of an individual alternative always entails a certain risk, which consists of the extent of the possible consequences of the decision. This will result in a point where we have a well-formed opinion on alternatives and find ourselves ahead of their choice or decision. From here on, we take responsibility for decision-makers; there are true Members and Members of the National Assembly. It often happens that making a decision means a commitment to action, which to a certain extent is also risky, but we can never know which decision is right or right. If we want to verify this, we should try all alternatives at the same time, which is by no means possible. Therefore, the absolute correctness of the decision is only a theoretical concept. It is essential that the logic and language of the monetary economy should not distort policies in this decision and that policy should not distort law. The Constitutional Court did not cross this Gordy knot either. The mystery we are facing is due to the unprecedented transfer of sovereignty between the country and the European Union. The European Union has created itself as a response to the risks of wars and crises, but today it is the greatest risk for its members. And the very Slovenian deletion of subordinates is proof of how dangerously we have missed in our assessment of what it is and what the European Union can do. Therefore, the responsibility of Slovenian politics is indisputable, and therefore our imperative is to allow the law to be approved by adoption at a meeting of the National Assembly. Further assessments, which cannot be avoided and are also announced in a loud way, will show to what extent the selected alternatives are located between acceptability and feasibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u70	I didn't mean to call, anyway. I'm gonna tell you a few things about what's on my mind. I'd say so. This law, which is necessary, but there is one madness, is not the madness of a song by a rock band from Ormož Predecari, but it is madness what has happened to this pile of amendments that have been tabled throughout the procedure. Otherwise, the Secretary of State mentioned only four, but since the entire script of these amendments that came to the Finance Committee has been suspended, even one meeting has been suspended because we have been constantly drenched by the parties with these amendments. These things are simply uncontrollable. If we now ask the Minister of Finance how many amendments have been tabled, perhaps the Secretary of State knows how many have been put through the whole procedure. Something over a hundred, I think. Mr. Polnar said very well how many parties have tabled the amendments. But one thing bothers me: government proposal, government law is this. The government gave the law, it's a real coalition. But the coalition parties you've been in the government have been making amendments. It's ambiguity, it's some kind of madness that appears. I'm surprised you don't cooperate with each other or what's wrong with you. I don't know why you're not cooperating. Work together and make the law come before the National Assembly. But not by having a hundred amendments, and we don't know who to listen to anymore, but who to read. That's one thing. You know the position of the Slovenian National Party. Of course, if the culprit was committed to anyone, it must be corrected. Marriage is bad in some way; simply, time will show what it will bring. This is a bad marriage, even though it is absolutely necessary. But with these amendments coming through or not coming through, we'll see in time what that means. It will be difficult for the court to determine whether the law is true or not, and we do not know for ourselves what the consequences will then be. Who's gonna pay for the damage? I think the Bank of Slovenia should pay it. Because responsibility is enshrined in the Bank of Slovenia Act. I will quote Article 2 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which states: “The Bank of Slovenia and members of its decision-making bodies shall be independent and shall not be bound by decisions, positions and instructions of state or any authority in the performance of their duties under this Act, nor shall they be referred to by direction or direction.” Well, here Mr. Jazbec made a mistake to be subject to the then authority or government to take this away from the people who took it — this subordinate bond, as we call it — although it was only a recommendation from the European Commission, but it was not an order in some way. Recommendation. Even today we do not know, we still doubt how big this bank hole was, whether these people had to take it or not. This will also tell us who is to blame and who is not. That's what I'd say. I've already got a suitcase full of Jazbeks. We had one for Banka Slovenije, one for the Ministry of Finance, and I think we had one Jazbec on SDH, so a person gets an allergy around Jazbecs. At the end of the day, this Jazbec — where is he now? Yeah. If you screw thousands of Slovenians, then you get your retirement and then you're at a better job at the European Central Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much for this debate. As I find that there is still an interest in the debate, I will open a new round of applications. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first one gets the word mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I'll afford it myself, given that my predecessors went beyond that concept. I will begin by presenting the distinguished Secretary of State, who, in his introductory presentation, stated that the aim of this proposal is to ensure the effective protection of the rights of securities holders. That sounds great! The second concerns that the broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is so stated and indeed it is, and the question is, and has not touched on how much of this legislative opinion has been calculated in the follow-up procedure on the Committee of the Fathers with the amendments and has taken into account the legislative opinion. He concluded by saying very gravely that the law itself is procedural. Absolutely. This is where I line up with him. But I have to point out here why this marriage is necessary. The first speaker has already touched on something, but I must point out for myself that, in the previous term, a proposal for a law has already been tabled in the coalition phase, which in some ways was a binding circumstance to remedy this so-called weakness or irregularities, which the Constitutional Decision has practically decided. We now have before us a proposal for a law which, when compared, is significantly different. Here is the fundamental question of what is this fundamental difference, given that the Ministry of Finance, apart from the Secretary of State and the Minister, has the same team as experts and goes with a different approach. It therefore questions whether this law is written in the interest of that handful of citizens or entities who bought these so-called subordinated securities in the Benelux States, whether this law is intended for those 90 or 100 thousand people who, in one way or another, have been misled or misled, whether they have been willing or unwilling to deposit their savings or deposits in state-owned banks. Because this is where the institutions of the Bank of Slovenia need to be touched. The fact is that the independent institution of the Bank of Slovenia is an institution in which no one is to be affected: neither the legislative nor the executive branch of authority. And if I use the word of an honourable Member from the past mandate, who has often said that only the blue sky is above the judicial branch of power, the institution of the Bank of Slovenia has also proved to be in this case that it is practically not responsible for anyone. Clearly, the comparison also applies to them: only the blue sky. For in the past period, we have tried several times to get this ossified institution, which also has an organisational structure built from a long time ago after independence, in order to somehow try to improve things a little bit, we have been given great criticism both by the management of Banka Slovenije, the past, also by the governor, who has decided to resign himself, and is in favour of the award of such a decision – certainly more than that – will receive an excellent position as a consultant or a member of the Council of the European Central Bank as well as other members of the Board of the Bank. Because I have to point this out, because with great difficulty we have accepted that the Court of Auditors could be involved in the review of some work back to the Bank of Slovenia. This is why it is a key issue and even a red thread of this law that we Members must now, or because of the incorrect, incomplete or unusual decision of the Bank of Slovenia, adopt the law on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and thereby correct the errors of the decision of the Bank of Slovenia. I would like to know how many such cases have occurred in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. What was said is not the responsibility of anyone! Apparently, there is also a reward for individuals – excellently paid positions outside the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service, which I highly appreciate, has apparently buried itself with all its breadth and expertise in this bill and made a lot of comments. In her opinions and opinions, and also on the parental committee itself, she argued that certain articles, including amendments, were literally called for constitutionally controversial arrangements. Here I will touch so many new amendments from Article 3a to Article 3b that I do not then speak of, as already mentioned, Article 4, and Article 5 and then of the circumstances. The special chapter is that so - called 20th, 21st, which speaks of experts, and could also count. The fact is that, as a rule, the position of the Legislative and Legal Service was taken by Members, so they decided on the Home Committee, obviously taking very little account. Therefore, it is my humble view that, with regard to the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, I can understand the following. That is, that individual provisions of the bill are written in such a way that there is a high likelihood that constitutional opinions on the possible adoption of such content will be made. That's not good. This is also pointed out by the Constitutional Court in its explanation. Next. Whether the intention of the proposer is hidden, in this case the executive branch of the authority, that this law, which has a wide range of – in my opinion – shortcomings, still be achieved through the procedure in the National Assembly, and the implementation of this law goes on for decades. Here we have a binding circumstance, which certainly is not proud of the fact that we still have open procedures for the Denationalisation Act, both to the National Assembly and to the executive branch of power. It has nothing to do with this, but it is certainly a very binding situation, as it has already been said in the previous debate that it is unusual for so many amendments to be tabled by the executive branch of power together with the coalition. I am also a member of the coalition, I agree, but I am aware that Members must sometimes be critical when we reach certain content, and one begins to think in accordance with the Constitution. Why is the decision of the Constitutional Court explicitly referred to by the Legislative and Legal Service not taken into account in this law? All those in the National Assembly who have repeatedly called for respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court – why is the position of the Legislative and Legal Service not taken into account in this case? But what is most exposed to me in the end, and it is also right to say it, is, and I ask the Secretary of State, how many legal voids are there in this law? It is also right for members of the National Assembly to be warned about such matters, because it is at the expense of individual legal voids that unusual circumstances are taking place, which are being used legally by many, but that is not the purpose of the law. And here's the question completely in place. As far as Article 8 itself is concerned, it is called an amendment, but it is being tabled as it is, as well as the procedures which the law itself provides for the realization of. Surely such matters are being followed, but I must touch on another matter, which is also very evocative, namely the jurisdiction of the court. On the one hand, the Constitutional Court, as well as the Legal and Legislative Service, makes it very clear how this case should be regulated and evenly burdened by the courts in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular because of the timely resolution of the applications received. By transferring the concentration in practice, I also respect the court in Maribor in this part, but that it is the local competent court in Maribor means that the defendant who is established in Ljubljana – that I will not talk about these so-called thousands of investors. What does that do? Costs and speed of proceedings, not to mention the time it takes to participate in such judicial proceedings. One more word about experts. For this article, which is in law, I hope to state, in that part that there is a mockery of a number of Members, who we have been very critical of, and we are still concerned with those persons who have, in one way or another, participated in the so-called bank hole. For the provision that an expert should not have been a person who was 12 months before the decision of the Bank of Slovenia is indeed a mockery. Those who learn a little more about these matters know that the key to the problem of such matters, which was later crystallized by the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, are said to be the governor, were weaknesses that have taken place at least since 2005. This is true of administrations, supervisory councils, business auditors, advisors and the like. Here's a speech that all those in the decision-making function who have literally caused a large amount of so-called state-owned banks' so-called loss have virtually the opportunity to become experts. I'm almost certain that many of these people have also acquired expert status at this time. Completely legal and legitimate. Thus, I do not understand why such provisions in the law have gone in this direction; on the one hand, the substantive delay in the procedure itself despite the warnings of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, in mocking the findings of the parliamentary investigation from the past period. I'll get it over with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Zabret has the floor next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Let me give you a little insight into what we're talking about today. The shareholders and owners of the certified liabilities of the five rehabilitated banks were able to stand at Bank Celje overnight in 2013 and a year later without their investments, which they thought were safe. The entire deletion amounted to 960 million and some 640 million of these were subordinated financial instruments. More than 100,000 investors were relieved. At that time, on the basis of stress tests and a review of bank assets, Banka Slovenije issued a decision on extraordinary measures to erase these securities. In 2016, the Constitutional Court ruled that it was necessary to allow the debauchery to challenge the deletions in court and that they could claim compensation. So today we have a two-year delay in proposing a bill on the table. I must say that the bill that we are considering today is another unresolved problem that should have been resolved long ago and is also one in a series of implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court that awaited us at the table when we took office. The draft law will allow deleted holders of qualified liabilities to have effective judicial protection in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision and that released investors will be able to sue Banka Slovenije for damages if it turns out that the assessment of the state of banks was wrong and that investors have been harmed by this decision worse than they would have been if this decision or exceptional measure had not been taken. Although we had doubts about the proposed amendments by Alenka Bratušek, which allow for an out-of-court settlement for a particular group of investors. That is why we abstained in voting on this in the working body. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the proposed regulation raises issues of compliance with the general principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. It states that the selected proposal for a distinction restricting the payment of flat-rate remuneration only to certain natural persons who were holders of qualifying obligations of the second and third rows, and that only those whose income did not exceed the average wage in 2013, is not a reasonable reason to justify the different treatment of those holders. Otherwise, possible inconsistencies with the Constitution will be decided by the Constitutional Court if the need arises. In the debate at the Committee on Finance, in which all the articles of the proposed law were adopted, the amendment to Article 12 of the Coalition, which provides for the public publication of the data on the applicants, which will bring an action pursuant to this Article, including the information on the level of the claim, raised doubts as to the constitutional dispute. An agreement was therefore concluded between the coalition to further explain the article in order to avoid constitutional dispute. To this end, we have tabled an amendment to Article 12 in the coalition with an appropriate explanation, which, in our view, removes concerns about constitutional dispute, in particular due to the following arguments. The law governing the protection of personal data does not prohibit publication or processing, but requires that the purpose of processing is specified in the law. In this case, it is a matter of predominance of the public interest in the protection of personal data and the compensation required is paid out of public funds, which is why the public interest takes precedence and is stronger than the interest in the protection of personal data. With regard to banking rehabilitation, which included significant public funds, a number of discussions were held in the general public and the public will also be able to understand and enlighten this subject. The opinion of the information officer in the conflict of public and private interest is that public interest can prevail in the event of public money being spent, as the Bank of Slovenia and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia may pay the damages. Public disclosure of data on applicants is also in the public interest in terms of reducing the risks of money laundering and will be able to contribute to the proper control of tax authorities. Indeed, some investors have also invested through fiduciary accounts. Indemnification claims made by former holders of qualified obligations will be dealt with in accordance with the principles of insolvency law. In this process, it is normal for creditors' claims to be made public, so that all creditors can determine the extent of claims and their type of order or priority during the whole process. For a transparent business environment, transparent and responsible action in the management of public funds is essential, and in this case the public interest of legal persons associated with a transparent representation of the use of public funds prevails over the interests of legal persons arising from a free economic initiative. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we will support the proposal of the law, because it seems to us that it is time for things to finally be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing an envelope that weighs about one billion euros, and we are not being held by the Minister of Finance, but sent by the Secretary of State. This already tells us at a symbolic level how the Minister of Finance views this legislation and how he, by doing so, does not come to the National Assembly in essence declares his trustlessness in advance. For all the laws that are at issue, you will always find that Mr Dragonja is coming to defend. Apparently, he's in charge of this kind of legislation at the Ministry. I'm sorry. But if Mr Dragonja comes, we can say in advance that he will obviously be a major problem with this legislation. It is a very bad marriage and in fact another disastrous and disastrous consequence of the government of Alenka Bratušek adopting unconstitutional laws here, in the National Assembly, is one that does not pass or survive constitutional judgment. At about the same time, another law was passed that same year, as you know, insolvent legislation, which equally allowed the elite 200 to get rid of the debt, one of their colleagues was then and is still the principle of the magistrate. It bothers me when we make decisions in politics and keep going and keep looking back at who is responsible for these decisions. Today, the seven Members who voted in favour of this controversial decision, which costs us and will cost us a billion euros, support this law, which is supposed to solve this unconstitutional situation. Four of them were leaders of the parliamentary groups: Maša Kociper, who voted in favour of this law, the amendment of ZBan, which ordered the deletion; Golubovic, the leader of the LMŠ Group, who then voted in favour of – as it turned out – the unconstitutional law; Matjaž Han, the leader of the SD Group, who then voted in favour of an unconstitutional solution, and Jurš, the leader of the Desus delegation, who also voted in favour of this solution. And now these same leaders of the parliamentary groups will vote once again in favour of a law that is supposed to save the unconstitutional situation, and if you have listened to all my forerunners, they have already predicted that there is very likely to be a constitutional assessment of these solutions. Now, please tell me who is sound in mind proposing such legislation as to resolve non-conformity with the constitution, where the law itself highlights the doubts that this law is also constitutionally consistent. Perhaps there are other reasons why this law is so urgent when it is not being rushed at all. As previously said, she has been missing this solution for more than two years. Here I have the BRRD directive, which we have transposed into our constitutional order by means of the Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act. This Directive states in the third paragraph of Article 85: "Member States shall ensure that all persons concerned by the decision to adopt a crisis management measure have the right to lodge a complaint against the decision in question. Member States shall ensure that the proceedings are expedited and that the national courts use the complex economic assessments of the facts prepared by the resolution authority as a basis for their assessment.” Therefore, Member States shall ensure that the proceedings are expedited. Is the trial expedited? When was the constitutional decision? How long are we late? We are adopting the Directive in our legal order and we are not saving the solutions required by the Directive. We have a bill on the table, for which one of the stakeholders, specifically the Bank of Slovenia, has already stated in advance that it will be challenged constitutionally if we have correctly understood what the ECB has announced and that this matter will also go to the European Court of Human Rights. So already in the adoption of the law, we have two forecasts of judicial proceedings that will prolong the application of this law. The Bank of Slovenia has announced, quote, “continuation of regulation that is not in conformity with EU law and the existing law of the Republic of Slovenia may mean that the law will be subject to further judgment by the competent courts, which will further delay the resolution of disputes of former holders of qualified obligations”. I now ask the bankruptcy manager of the Finance Ministry, Mr Draganjo. Are you coming before the National Assembly by this law to extend the correction of possible injustices to those whose securities have been erased in order to defer matters to another government, or are you sincerely coming with the best that you can write down or assemble at the Ministry of Finance? If it's the first one, you're abusing the parliamentary procedure, for, excuse me, ugly political interests. If it's another one, change the department's management. In fact, if you are not able to arrive with a law that is at least in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly constitutionally consistent, then forgive me, there are some qualified officials missing from the Ministry of Finance. Mr Ivanuš said earlier that Banka Slovenije should pay the cancellation of subordinate obligations. Sounds very attractive. They listened to you at the Ministry of Finance and Responsibility transferred to Banka Slovenije. Again, I do not know whether they have done so to challenge and not have to pay the Bank of Slovenia for the next three years or knowingly violate the normative basis of the European monetary system. In fact, even the Legal and Legal Service has given you an answer to why this is not the right solution. I quote, "for this reason, the ECB, in its opinion of 15 October 2013 on the extraordinary measures introduced by the Bank of Slovenia, stated that the tasks assigned to the Bank of Slovenia should not affect its ability to carry out tasks which are consistent with the normative basis, both operational and financial, and therefore are not tasks relating to monetary policy." This means that the powers of the bank, which have been established by the ZBan 1L amendment, cannot be regarded as a central bank task. In other words, it was a political decision. Political decision taken by Alenka Bratušek, Dejan Židan, Gregor Virant and Karl Erjavec. In order to do so, the Legal and Legislative Service, in view of the fact that it is not possible to overlook the role of the State which has decided that, instead of the systemic banks being bankrupt, it will, through exceptional measures, regulate the possibility of terminating qualified obligations and thus allow State aid to banks. In short, this lady and three men have made a political decision, and now the responsibility lies with someone else, who we already know will use all legal means to avoid this obligation. And what will be the result? We will not have a final decision and 102 000 and a few more Slovenians will be deprived of the legal compensation for the money they have invested. Is that fair, is that right, or is that in accordance with the Constitutional Decision on the Banking Act, Novel 1L? I don't think so. I agree with my colleague Verbic when he said he felt that the individual solutions contained in this law were written in the same way as they would trigger a constitutional dispute. We're thinking the same thing. Even colleague Zabret said in her essay, which she had read here before us, “and otherwise the Constitutional Court will decide.” See, even from the largest government party LMŠ to support this law, they already say in their initial presentation that the case will go to constitutional judgment. Why, then, do you support this if it is already clear to you that there will be a constitutional judgment and a long delay in payment to those who may have been unconstitutional, unlawfully deprived of the funds they have invested in it? Mr Dragonja, the Secretary of State, has yet to tell you anything. The proceedings before the courts are conducted at several levels and are also in an administrative dispute against only the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, in an administrative dispute, because there was no other remedy, since the government of Alenka Bratušek and the company did not allow another remedy, the individual deleters raised a dispute in the Administrative Court, as the constitution allows them. Do you know what that means? The dispute is open and if the decision in the Administrative Court is such that this regulation of the Bank of Slovenia is inconsistent with the normative basis, everything falls. Everything's falling. The payment and cost of the resolution of the banking system and the bank holes will be higher for the entire amount of the deletion plus all late interest. That's level one. As we know, we have been informed of this, well-informed investors who have invested heavy millions in subordinated bonds may, in Slovenian courts, if they have made timely complaints in compensation disputes – now they can no longer do so because the Ministry of Finance has so slowed down with this topic – report their loss, declare themselves uninformed and double their contribution to this, as is the case with the higher court of two lawyers in Celje. See, to those who have been informed and have had the means and have prepared themselves in time and sought justice through a regular court through compensation disputes, in accordance with this case-law, they will double their stake, those who already have a million that could have invested so little to the contrary will double their stake. However, the other 100,000 Slovenians, which have invested their savings, will continue to await decades of possible right in collective actions under the proposed law due to the activity or inaction of the Ministry of Finance and Coalition Support. Does it not seem that we have again first-class, well-informed, well-settled, full of money, which will continue to elevate in this way through the rehabilitation of the banking system and unauthorized ordinary citizens who will be reinstated? I was wondering why the Ministry of Finance is so fast right now, all of a sudden wanting to adopt this law. I did a little digging, but I found that there was another dispute before the European Court of Human Rights due to a lack of legal remedy. Did the Secretary of State tell you that? Did he tell you he's, I think, 18. Ten. 2019 Defence of Slovenia before a Court of Justice? And that this law only takes so that she can say, look, we've adopted the law, we've done something. We have adopted a legislative solution that now offers a collective bumper against possible unconstitutional deletion. Just because they make that hook, they obviously care about the 102 000 Slovenians who have invested their savings and is the only reason for today's proposal to rush into the process to get the matter off the table and let another government go. The longer the disputes persist before different courts, the longer this government will be able to speak in peace of the vehicle and say that it has done everything in its interest. To you, however, Members, whether you will support this or allow such a fraud or once you play a role in some way as the supervisor of the executive branch, you will pull the manual brake and ask the government to draw up such legislation as is constitutionally consistent and will offer solutions for those who have been deprived. Once again, not for those privileged who have already found the way, regardless of what legislation it is, but for those who have been uninformed and ignorant, they have had to contribute to the rehabilitation of the banking system. If this decision is in effect, the resolution of the banking system will not only cost 5 billion dollars, I hope now to predict that there will be a billion, and probably also legal late interest. But once again: this will not be the fault of the Dragon Method, and you will be the culprit in the National Assembly, who will vote for this legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper is the last person to be reported in this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. It is not grateful to continue the discussion after such a rhetorical master as Mr Ange Logar, in general, because he knows so well how to implicate and populism and manipulation and false facts, and it all turns into one such logical whole. I enjoy listening to you. Indeed, Mr. Logar! But maybe because I have this possibility that I'm right behind him, things just aren't as simple as he wants to show them. Or this responsibility — the responsibility of Alenka Bratušek and Dejan Židan — you will be responsible. This is so, Mr Logar, as if I were to say: "You, Mr Logar, and Mr Janez Janša, are responsible for your colleagues, because because of Zuif eight years pensioners have not coordinated pensions. Do you have any idea how many smaller pensions the pensioners have because of you? Now, out of your pocket, pay for it. I wonder who's going to give back to the pensioners what took Zuif away from them. Who's gonna give it back to them? Will this be the country? But it will be Mr Ange Logar, because his government was when Zujf was adopted, who took so many rights from pensioners who did so many wrongs, who was so many times recognised as unconstitutional in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia! There is no law that would have more unconstitutionalities established by this law. Is that how we're gonna go? In general, this unconstitutionality, which you like to stress — and Mr Tanko likes to stress — over the National Assembly and all courts is the Constitutional Court and judges whether we are wrong or not. We think we're right a lot of times, and they find out we don't. Many times we think we are right, and they confirm – sometimes that's why we have the Constitutional Court to judge. [[…]] When we have such specific legislation as this, when the Constitutional Court has only said for the first time in history that it is a particular type of compensation responsibility of the sui generis, there is something that is possible against the Constitution. Because we have never in our lives had compensation responsibility, where illegality was not the reason for the payment of damages. What they teach you at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana in the 2nd year is that the damage is paid under the subject, the subject, the conditions of compensation liability. One of these conditions is illegality. Here, however, there is no illegality because, as you have deceived Mr Anže Logar, the Constitutional Court has not declared this law to be unconstitutional, but has stated in the Constitutional Law that after the Law on the Elimination of Qualified Obligations was given a constitutional judgment, the Constitutional Court, as the highest authority of the judiciary, has found that they have laid down the legal conditions for the imposition of exceptional measures — to be deleted at home — in accordance with the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. This was said by the Constitutional Court; this measure is in accordance with the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia! As a non-constitutional point of view, it only recognized the provision on the judicial protection of minors, since they would not have had adequate legal protection. For those who may not know, our legal order is governed by the rule that if there is no other legal protection, you have the possibility of an administrative dispute. Here the Constitutional Court has said, no, this possibility of an administrative dispute is not sufficient, because there are outlaws – if we call them domestically – in a worse legal situation and do not have access to information such as the Bank of Slovenia has, so it is necessary to offer them a special form of judicial protection and this law has done so. A special form of judicial protection is offered by the law drawn up by the Ministry of Finance under the leadership of Dr. Andrei Bertonclja. The law has been drafted which, in accordance with the constitutional decision – exactly as provided for in the Constitutional Decision – offers these people the right of judicial protection and addresses precisely the dilemmas raised by the Constitutional Court. It is said how to get information on how to provide information to them, how to access them, within what time limits, and give them additional rights against a stronger party to the Bank of Slovenia. But before I touch this part of the law, maybe I'll take one step back. Why did this debauchery come about, which is the fault of Alenka Bratušek and so on? Because we were in a situation at the time, because in a few months, there would be no more pension money in the country, teachers' salaries, nurses, doctors, caregivers, police officers, firefighters in a situation where Mr. Anže Logar and his client called the troika to come – a threesome that would cut pensions, social benefits and so on. [[…]] Another government then made a different decision. It has decided to take advantage of the opportunity that the European Union has allowed at that time, namely to empower those who have certain types of rights to manage banks; those who, if these banks went bankrupt – and would anyway – would not get anything. They wouldn't get anything anyway! What's the problem now? You've been exposing him, legitimately, to all the parties in the general debate. My client, too. The problem is that the 102 thousand people Mr Logar is talking about were 3%, 3% of those who actually came to the bank and said that they would invest, but the bank official said to him, "Mr. pensioner or lady, I don't know, whatever, not deposit, give these bonds to buy, it's worth more." Indeed, they experienced some sort of injustice because they did not know what they were going into. Although, to be perfectly honest, each person is responsible for what he does and how he has his money. But let's just say they really didn't. But you know what? These people already have a possibility under existing legislation to sue a bank that has not explained this to them; a lawsuit because the bank has not done its explanatory duty. This is a lawsuit against a private bank. And when Mr Logar so nicely online everything that they got one million back, plus another million interest, he doesn't say one little thing: that they got it from the bank, not the state. That little thing, isn't it? People in front of the screens think they got $2 million from the state; no, they got it from a bank for which the court in Celje found that it had failed to perform its explanatory duty. That little thing. Thus, people have already had the possibility of judicial protection against individual banks, but now, in accordance with the Constitutional Court provision, this country offers a particular form of qualified judicial protection against the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, in order to be able to verify that this decision was legitimate and if the damage was done, I personally believe that it was largely not found to have been the case because the bank would otherwise go bankrupt – but if this is found, they will receive compensation. This is a special form of compensation liability, sui generis, and in such a form of compensation responsibility, with which we meet for the first time, this law will also, of course, have certain risks – Mr Logar and others speak contra-constitutional – which can only be judged by the Constitutional Court. I'll explain one thing. The SDS party, Mr Logar's client, Ange Logar – Mr Anže Logar loves me so much with my name and surname, that I have now decided that it is only fair that I, too, with his name and surname - have proposed an amendment, and she has done the same to NSI, in which she wanted the defendants to be revealed. It is said that the defendants who will file these charges under this law will be revealed, not only by the applicants from Slovenia, but also by the applicants abroad. This was the amendment of Mr Anžet Logar's party and NSI parties – parties who always say that the coalition does not summarize your amendments. This coalition has taken over this amendment, taken over its contents, tabled it as its amendment, but Mr Anže Logar and Mr. – I do not know who defended it with NSi, Jernej Vatovec, Vrtovec, because it does not matter. In short, I apologize for the mistake on behalf. It is for this solution that the legal and legal service has stated that it is one of the most risky and that it is possible to be unconstitutional. This is the solution, but I don't know if it is unconstitutional either, because in the end, the Constitutional Court will weigh, as has already been explained today, the public interest. Is it the public interest that we know in this country who will receive money as a claimant in these proceedings back and who these investors in Luxembourg have been investing, whether this public interest is greater than the public interest or the interest of these parties — pardon, not the public interest, than the interest of these parties — that their personal data are not disclosed? In this debate, it seemed to me here that the Ministry's argument was that even in insolvency proceedings or bankruptcy proceedings in any district court, creditors would be made public. Then why don't you just stay here when the state's paying for it if it's even there? This is potentially unconstitutional. Another possible anti-constitutionality in this law is the limitation of the maximum amount of compensation. Some coalition parties have conditioned support for the law if it does not. The legal and legal service, which, just in case, warns of all possible non-constitutionalities, in order not to be seen by anyone, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has warned that the limitation on the amount of compensation is likely to be, perhaps, unconstitutional. I think it's possible, too, that, even if we remember the law we had to pass because of the deleted. But I don't know. Why don't I know? Since we have a special form of sui generis compensation liability here, maybe the rule here is different. I don't know what the Constitutional Court will say, I don't know. The third unconstitutionality is who has to pay: the State or Bank of Slovenia. Banka Slovenije carried out this measure, Banka Slovenije was the one who carried out the whole procedure and obtained these stress tests and I don't know what. As Members and citizens who support us and our party, it seems logical that Banka Slovenije pays for this on the basis of some responsibility, that if you do something, you are responsible for it. Whether it was unconstitutional or not, we will see what the Constitutional Court will say. I can't say here either. I conclude with what seemed very important to our client, Alenka Bratušek. We have been actively engaged throughout this process in what you mentioned to all the parties in the general debate. Can those of us who have come to the window and bought bonds there be offered less complex judicial protection? After serious consideration, after consulting various experts, we have come up with a proposal for a simplified judicial settlement or a simplified settlement system whereby only those who bought the bonds directly at the window would be entitled to a simplified procedure where they would eventually receive flat-rate compensation. This means that we should not participate in long-term procedures, have no lawyers, have great costs and so on. How do you do that? Of course, these people need to be limited somehow. We said that these would be natural persons whose annual income in that year was not greater than the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sure it's not some rich guy. All pensioners fall here, I fall the whole public sector and so on. Only those have the right to submit this application. If they submit this application and prove that they bought these bonds in that manner and that they do not have a higher income than the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia in 2013, they are entitled to this simplified procedure, this was also a instalment in Mr Tank's amendment proposal, then they are entitled to a flat-rate refund of 80% of their contribution, which must not be higher than the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. It is said that the restriction is on entry, who can get this right, and also how much money can get, which means that large investors for this simplified procedure will not be interested. If this flat-rate payment is received, of course, it is no longer justified by any other title to require it. This was the SAB's proposal. Most coalition parties eventually abstained, of course, because they calculate, if it happens to be before the constitutional that they won't be guilty, but we will. [[…]] It's okay. We're capable of taking this responsibility, and we're willing to take it, because I think it's something good. There is one additional possibility of a flat-rate compensation under this law. I am sure that this interesting debate will continue. I'll check in with you later. So far, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Logar has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you. I believe it's hard to get a big circle into a small one. But it is slightly incorrect that someone who is directly responsible for this unconstitutionality is most of the time turned against someone who was not able to vote on it at all because he was not even in the National Assembly. And to address, if you look, I will, because I know just as well. As I once said, my father is stronger than yours. A colleague, who I think is a lawyer, said that the law was not unconstitutional — which they accepted — the novels. I will read only one case here from the Constitutional Decision, item 128: "If there is no constitutionally permissible objective to intervene in the right to judicial protection, this is unconstitutional." Constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court. If I understood my colleague Kociper correctly, she has always been able to see how we are putting ourselves in the role of the Constitutional Court and we already know that this law is going to fall in the Constitutional Court. I didn't say that. All I said was that he would be given constitutional judgement. If you listened carefully to your colleague, she spoke to most people all the time only about what could be unconstitutional in this law, but she will vote in favour of this law at the same time. And to report to the Slovenian Democratic Party of the ZUJF, while the member of the coalition and the government that the ZUJF has preserved has extended, the government of Mir Cerar later has been somewhat unusual. And far away, the ZUJF would be the most unconstitutional marriage. I think that the Constitutional Court only corrected something about this fighting pension, which was very high because, I think, they were being used too selectively. One more thing! But what I'm concerned about is what colleague Kociper said was that they decided to do it, because otherwise they couldn't pay their salaries, their pensions and so on. Do you know what she said today? So they decided to do it on purpose. That, in full consciousness, they deliberately decided that some other generations would later pay for it. Today, however, she admits that she will go to constitutional court and still vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Since I see that there is still an interest in the debate, I will open a new round of applications and then I will get the floor first, Mr Secretary of State. First of all, I'm asking you to report to the debate. We have three reported discussers. First he gets the word, Mr Dragonja, and then Mrs Monika Gregorčič is prepared. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much, ma'am. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u83	If you turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must conclude that this debate far exceeds the consideration of the topic of the amendment to Article 8 and point out that the general discussion was held in the first reading, where it was required in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we have provided extensive explanations on the working body and that certain things are emerging. For this reason, I will skip some of the things that we have explained in the general debate and in the course of the harmonisation of the law in the labour market. First, I would argue that the proposal for a law eliminates constitutional non-compliance in the part found in the Banking Act by the Constitutional Court. However, once again what has already been pointed out in one of the discussions is that the Constitutional Court has consistently recognised twelve articles of the Banking Act. However, only for the provisions of Article 350a of the Banking Act in the part where they did not allow former deleted holders of qualified liabilities of banks to have adequate judicial protection, have they imposed that special procedural rules be adopted in a specific law to address this problem. This is exactly what this law tries to regulate in the best possible faith and in good faith. Secondly, it must be said that this law must upgrade the legislation that was in force during the time of extraordinary measures, but not in a way that would retroactively interfere with this legislation, because former holders, former investors in these instruments would immediately renegotiate the retroactive operation of this law and retroactive provisions, but essentially upgrade the provisions relating to the procedural aspects of the management of these disputes or legal protection that must be provided to former holders. Before issuing the decision, the Constitutional Court raised questions with the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Court of Justice of the European Union issued judgment number C526/14 on some of these questions, in which it responded to a number of dilemmas, in particular in relation between European law and national law and what national law should regulate in this part. In this way, the Constitutional Court also issued a constitutional decision. The Constitutional Decision is very extensive, it has 75 pages, I think it is about 150 articles of this Constitutional Decision. In fact, the Constitutional Court provided key guidance on how to deal with these issues. The discussion by Mr Ivanus that the law or the legislative procedure was relatively imprecise and long-term must be answered in the following way. At the end of March, the government introduced the law into the legislative procedure, and the first reading was done in May. The opinion of the Legislative-Administrative Service was issued after the first reading. That's what they say. It was released around 15. 6. It is said that it has been two and a half months since the introduction of the law, and amendments that have followed the legislative and legal services' opinion in an appropriate manner had to be tabled within a very short period of time. In addition, it should be said that these numerous amendments, which have been tabled, have otherwise regulated access to data, modern technological access, that is to say, through a computerised virtual data room or data room for individual banks, and that a difficult process of coordination has also occurred between the institutions which need to provide this data and between those who will manage this data room and access to it. Much of the amendments had to do with this. I would like to point out, however, that the provisions on access to data are virtually 100 % aligned with all the stakeholders who will participate in this first task imposed by the Constitutional Court. I would like to point out once again that this law seeks to eliminate constitutional non-compliance in that part, which, above all, gives the possibility of effective judicial protection to deleted holders. However, in such a way that it does not interfere retroactively with the arrangements in force at the time of deletion. I would argue that the provisions can again be challenged in the Constitutional Court that this is a reality, which we are also aware of at the Ministry of Finance and in the Government, because the material interests that fuel these disputes are so great that it is necessary to count that former holders of these options will benefit. However, we have tried to eliminate or minimize as much as possible these risks of the effects of non-constitutionality during the legislative process, based on the recommendations of the Legal and Legal Service. As far as the evidence of potential unconstitutionality is concerned, we have followed through the legislative procedure all the recommendations and opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. There is still an open recommendation of the ZPS to Article 5, which is the jurisdiction of the court; it is said that the jurisdiction of the court is excluded. In this part, extensive consultations were held with the Ministry of Justice for the Judiciary, a representative of the Supreme Court was present at the home work body and the judiciary through the Ministry of Justice proposed such a solution. This is reasonable to take into account, given that the judicial branch of power will practically then also decide on disputes that will take place under this law or on this issue. The comments of the Legislative and Legal Service to Article 25 have not been taken into account, this is to maximise the amount of compensation to be awarded and to be awarded. Here was a very clear position of both opposition and positional parliamentary groups that we can only talk about the payment of compensation, that is to say the damage to investors, and this damage cannot go beyond the resources that former holders have made to subordinated obligations. It is precisely because of a unified view of this issue of both the coalition and the opposition that we have further explained the public interest involved in this issue and which is also derived from the Constitutional Court's decision itself. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that recovery is not possible. This is said to be the case for decisions of the Bank of Slovenia in administrative disputes, not the way, but the need for sui generis, especially judicial protection, and for compensation to be taken into account; however, compensation shall be determined in accordance with specific rules on liability, as defined in the Banking Act in force at the time of liquidation. The third point on which the principal comments and warnings of the Legal and Legislative Services are also raised is Article 26, which is the payment of compensation. This is one of the questions whether the Bank of Slovenia will pay the damage or the State of the Republic of Slovenia will potentially be able to pay the damage and thus the taxpayers. In this part, we will give some additional explanations below. The fourth topic to which a statement of possible constitutional dissuasion has been received relates to Article 12, which is the publication of data on debtors. Here we practically only upgraded the proposal of opposition parliamentary groups in the part where the Legal and Legislative Service warned about the protection of personal data and justified the public interest as to why it is proportionate or constitutionally consistent that these data are available to the public. The main reason for this is that public funds will be involved in the possible payment of compensation. The PSC also made a comment on the amendments of the SAB Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, concerning this flat-rate refund. We did not respond specifically to this part at the Ministry of Finance. The key and central part of the publication of the potential anti-constitutionality relates to the relations and warnings of the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank. The draft law follows essentially the Constitutional Court’s decision on liability for the potential compensation to be awarded in these proceedings. This issue has been adequately addressed in Article 350a ZBan-1. Such a provision was also in line with the rules governing the functioning of the European System of Central Banks. In particular, this is Protocol No 4 to the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, which provides that the responsibility of national central banks is laid down in national legislation. The latest letter issued by the European Central Bank on 16 August mainly speaks of the need to regulate the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia in a different way. If we follow this opinion or the direction of the European Central Bank, we should retroactively interfere with the then regulation in Article 350a of the ZBan and thereby further increase the risk of constitutional compliance with these legal solutions. However, as regards the content itself and the perceptions of interference with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, the evidence of monetary financing, it should be emphasized that central banks have more functions after the European Central Bank and the European Central Bank system itself. Banka Slovenije performed the function of the resolution authority and the function of the supervisory authority at the time of its disappearance. This function is separated under these rules from the monetary function of the European Central Bank. The monetary function must be separated from other liabilities with the Chinese wall, while those tasks, at the time, especially the supervisory role of the central banks, are granted to the European Central Bank and central banks at national level by a contract between the European Union and the European Central Bank. Therefore, the evidence of monetary financing in this work has been very carefully examined; but once again, we argue that when the novel ZBan-1L was adopted, the European Central Bank received a positive opinion. However, as regards the infringement of Banka Slovenije's financial independence, the provisions of the law provided in Article 26 for a special mechanism that the Bank of Slovenia will not be immediately and directly exposed to potential damages if they are assessed, but that, in the first instance, it will use the retained profits that will accumulate from the beginning of this year to make sure that Banka Slovenije does everything that the defendant proves that it has properly carried out these procedures. Only if the extent of the potential compensation awarded exceeds the resources to be raised as a dedicated reserve during the management of these disputes for these purposes will the mechanism then be provided for in order to make use of part of the general reserves of the Bank of Slovenia and that the Republic of Slovenia may also be able to set aside part of these funds for the payment of these compensations. This is said to be the means by which we have introduced a proposal for a law that fully guarantees the financial independence of the Bank of Slovenia in the performance of its monetary functions. However, it cannot be resolved by the responsibility arising from the exercise of its supervisory functions and the change of the legal arrangements. Mr Logar also mentions the BRRD Directive, which had not been adopted at the time and was not in force. Thus, if this deletion were to take place later, the provisions of this Directive could be applied in 2014 or after the transposition of this Directive or could be implemented through the provisions of bank resolution legislation. Here we have the situation that this deletion was made before the Banking Union was established and before the single mechanisms for bank resolution at European level were even adopted and before the deadline for their transposition into national law was reached. In this part, it will then be very important in the work of the courts to assess how the courts will assess, whose legal bases Banka Slovenije used primarily in the valuation of assets, in valuations, and what was the legal basis for the assessment of the bank's capital mismatches or of such large-scale impairments of investments and collateral for credit exposures held by banks at the time on their balance sheets. This law does not prejudge any solution to the courts. We are opening a path that gives the holders every opportunity to exercise their right to prove that they present their arguments. Within the legal order in force at that time, the court will have to decide whether deleted holders have been harmed more than they would have been harmed in the event of bankruptcy of financial institutions. This comes from the arrangements of the day. The bankruptcy, as we know, was not an option because it was a systemic financial institution. We believe that we also have sufficient arguments in this part if the European Central Bank in any way contests the compatibility of this law and the proposed solutions with the rules of operation of the European Central Bank system, or if an additional constitutional assessment is also launched. We estimate that we have addressed most of the comments appropriately and on the basis of large-scale coordination. The political labels that this is a bad marriage clearly cannot be accepted. The law sends a decision to the Constitutional Court after our assessment in the appropriate manner. However, it is true that this path will not be short, this path will be quite relatively long, but this path has been drawn by the Constitutional Court by a constitutional decision in which all these elements have been duly assessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you. Secretary of State of Dragonja is a very seductive man. He's right about some part of it, but he didn't tell me all the information. The BRRD Directive, which I quoted earlier, was adopted on 15 May 2014. Extraordinary measures, Bank Celje, 16. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its 92 million subordinates were erased at the time and in this part are valid; my main point was that the four years were not short and the government did not react as it should and, in fact, came with a solution at the time it was necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Now, Mrs. Monica Gregorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. In view of the beginning of my colleague Masha Kociper's debate, I have already thought that we are at the beginning of the electoral campaign; but let us return to today's topic. We have before us the proposal for a law on the procedure for the judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks, and I am also well aware that some of the solutions in it are far from ideal. However, we have been constructively involved in coordinating the solutions to the bill in the SMC, as we are very well aware that the constitutional decision needs to be implemented. And we are glad that some of our warnings and suggestions have been heard and also heeded. We have given particular attention to the issue of hidden owners. We insisted that with additional fuses, a provision that provided for disclosure of the actual identity of the former owners should be duly upgraded. Former owners wishing to file damages under this law will no longer be able to hide behind fiduciary accounts abroad. However, in the SMC, we have also constantly pointed out some, including our assessment, of the disputed provisions of this law, which are unfortunately still inconsistent to the end. Unfortunately, our amendment proposal to Article 5 was not adopted by the Finance Committee, which would extend the local jurisdiction of the Court of Maribor to the Court of Ljubljana and Celje. According to our assessment, we are still convinced that such dispersion would contribute to a faster and more effective trial. Furthermore, amendments proposed by Alenka Bratušek, which provide for flat-rate compensation of up to EUR 20 000 for small uneducated investors, were adopted at the Committee on Finance. According to our assessment, this is not in the spirit of a constitutional decision. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, which doubts constitutionality because of the general principle of equality before the law. With these amendments, the proposer referred to the social dimension, but in the SMC we always stress what co-worker Kociper then rightly stated today that small uneducated investors have always had legal protection and a legal basis for bringing damages under the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments due to the unexplainable duty of business banks. As the business banks failed to carry out their explanatory duties or to explain to their committees that because of the promise of a few higher interest rates, there is also a slightly higher risk; this is the basis for these committees to file claims against business banks, which would of course also be compensation payers. And then this compensation would not be a burden on public funds, so there was no need for uneducated small investors to wait until today for this law to be passed. Unfortunately, we note that uneducated investors have been reintroduced by not being encouraged to file private actions against business banks on a second legal basis. Finally, let me point out another key issue, this is the non-conformity of the law with the Bank of Slovenia, which is supposed to be the payer of compensation to the polished owners. The Bank of Slovenia does not agree that it will be the main payer, as the reason is given by the prohibition of monetary financing. To put it simply, the Bank of Slovenia should not finance the state's tasks, but also the sum of possible compensations exceeds the current reserves of the Bank of Slovenia, which could seriously threaten its stability and independence. It is not irrelevant that the European Central Bank also attaches to this view by the Bank of Slovenia, and it is therefore expected that the Bank of Slovenia will continue to initiate further procedures to prevent the implementation of this law. Therefore, I fear that, unfortunately, seriously injured investors will not be closer to justice or a just payment of compensation for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your word and a good day to you all. Of course, it is clear from some of the judgments that commercial banks will have to cut down and pay off a certain portion of the deleted holders of bank bonds. This was the case of Celje, who happened, the court's decisions. The commercial bank has to pay these two notorious acquaintances who have been unlearned investors and have invested in subordinate bonds in rivers and write not 100 000 euros, but a million euros. They were uneducated and paid a million euros. But this is the way when the burden on commercial banks is what the predecessor used to say. But the second path that will apply will follow this law that we are now adopting. And it is this law, if adopted, that is in the best interest of the commercial bank. Because if deleted subordinates decided to sue through commercial banks, that would be the burden of commercial banks, deposits plus all interest. Under this law, this will be a burden from now on, as you write, Banka Slovenije. For this reason, I claim that this law is in the best interest of commercial banks. Perhaps that is why commercial banks did not encourage deleted subordinates to submit their claims. Come in. The Bank of Slovenia will pay for the damage under this law. Let us pour ourselves some pure wine so that in no way can it withstand the damage to the Bank of Slovenia. The Court of Auditors has limited access to the Bank of Slovenia due to the supervisory function of the ECB. As an investigative commission, we do not get documents from the Bank of Slovenia because we have nothing to do with it and they do not allow us to do so. Next, this law was passed here, in the National Assembly. This law on the deletion of subordinated bondholders was decided on a special commission, called the Interdepartmental Commission. The lady here knows how it went. This was one of the meetings of October month and the minister comes in and says, "Are you ready to wipe out your subordinates? And then they made it. Earlier this was not ready, but earlier it was just said that these were the recommendations of the European Commission, and this was after 1. 8. 2013 The European Commission’s recommendations on State aid had not previously provided for this at all with regard to the deletion of the holders. Why am I saying this? Because I'm talking about it being a political decision and not a decision by Banka Slovenije. The Minister was the one, the Interdepartmental Commission had most politicians. Most of them were there from the government, from the Ministry of Finance, only one representative from the Bank of Slovenia. And now we would like to shift the political decision to the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. It's no problem, we can do it, but in the Constitutional Court, as the Legal and Legal Service says, it won't hold. But who's gonna be worse at this point? Those small investors who will still wait to be paid because they can also put their savings on the window to deposit their deposits in subordinated bonds. Responsibilities are exclusively political and this will not hold up, making it difficult to support this law. Was this measure necessary? No one said this measure was necessary. There were broadcasts and a criminal charge was written that there was a difference; that we had reached a bank hole and were subordinates. It's a bluff. What the size of the bank hole was when the decision was taken on the Interdepartmental Commission, then the careful review of the banks was not done, the stress tests were not yet known; but you say that this measure was necessary. And now the subordinates, three groups. Firstly, investors buying subordinated bonds at bank windows could have paid off long ago, ladies and gentlemen. If it were political will, these small investors would have paid their subordinated obligations long ago; we have not. Why? Due to this main third group of subordinated bondholders who opened fiduciary accounts in Luxembourg, Dublin. And I've already mentioned this too many times, Mr Dragonja, I don't want to mention it again. I don't know where they got the money to do it, I don't want to pay it. I don't think the state of these people can pay back until they show the origin of their assets. We'll make another mess of it if we get there. However, in the law, we have amended that those who were owners, that only those legal persons who had been granted permission to appear before the court will be required to report there. All right, all right, but an extra security guard would be if those who bought through the Russian VTB bank had to report to the court. That would be an extra security guard. In the meantime, they could have moved capital under any fund in Luxembourg or elsewhere, had sufficient time, from 2007, when the Bank issued EUR 120 million of subordinated bonds through the Russian VTB and until 2012, 2013. That was a lot of talk about how there was going to be annihilation, and these people knew very well that they had settled their capital in time. Consequences of the Court's decision; yet another which we have never discussed in this Chamber, nor in the committees. Under this law, we have a provision to assess whether subordinates would be better off in the event of bankruptcy. This has one consequence: let's figure out the methodology for which the confusion which it eventually caused, but we'll talk more about it on our investigative committee. Are we going to calculate the bank's hole, the bank's careful checks based on the then input data, and do stress tests? And who will be responsible for this? How long are these procedures going to take? When you fix a bank hole, there are several billion in the game, 150 or 200 million euros are immediately different. Imagine that there is a decision, although I do not know who will be able to count the bank hole, but that there is a decision that the bank hole, and this is confirmed by the court, was not the same as it was in 2013. So it's not that big a deal. And then it comes into another story, which is called, "Who's going to pay for it? Not only will the problem of subordinates or subordinates be able to come to their story, but then why would the state budget not be allocated its amount if it is justified. But if the bank hole wasn't like that, we paid too much into the bank hole. Well, that'll go to our courts. I'd like to see this story come to an end. Serious audit companies like Ernst & Young, Deloitte and so on are doing this. And we're going to, I think, kick in the dark in this process. I think that the law, which is made up in a way that basically has a problem, because the problem of constitutionality, who pays for it, can't support it. Otherwise, I don't know why we have legal and legal work in this National Assembly. Because of listening to her a little; or because of saying so, they sometimes do something in store. But most of the time, what they do in stock, in your opinion, turns out to be right. Why do we have the legal and legal work and the legislative bodies, if you say it and write it down, we're going to whistle at their opinions?Oh, my God! But they have experience, they have knowledge, and they're lawyers. There's something else about experts. That's one thing I'm worried about, Mr. Dragonja. However, we also supported the amendments concerning the Maribor court, but unfortunately it was not adopted. We regret that, too. There have been so many things in this law that, despite our original amendment to expose these individuals, man cannot support it in the form that is now proposed and dealt with today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. As last reported in this round, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. In the introduction, Mr Polnar said that all the members of this law, except for the five, had been amended. He did not say, however, that this amended proposal has more articles than the basic law tabled by the Government has more than 12 articles. Mr Dragonja or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, no one in the opposition is able to prepare such a bad law that you would experience as many additions and changes as your law. But when we make laws, it is always written that the law is not suitable for further consideration, the coalition does not support it. However, this law supports the coalition, although, apart from one debate, you have all talked about the fact that in several places the law is also constitutionally controversial with these corrections and that constitutional opinions are expected. So if I simplify, the government has proposed a law that does not provide any short-term solution. The coalition has accepted changes that do not remedy this. And given the nature of these judicial proceedings, it is expected that implementation under this law, even if it occurs, will not take place sooner than it did in five or ten years. The government and the coalition are consciously adopting a law that will have the consequences of ad calendas graecas, as the former Prime Minister of the Government once said when he signed an arbitration agreement or an arbitration approach. It's like never at a world like this. If we know all of this, if we know all of this is going to happen, then I can only assess that this bill, which is in the legislative process, has been written speculatively, in order to avoid timely and good decisions at the right time. He's not coming at all. If I continue to add, when this law is enforced, even if there are no consequences for those who are entitled, they will earn only a variety of audit houses, legal offices and others; no one else. For if payment is not made by most beneficiaries, as has been said at the meeting of the Committee, and this is what Mr Dragonja and Maša Kociper said, then they will earn on a dry basis: audit houses, various laboratories, those who participated in the appeals proceedings which will challenge one calculation with another calculation, and so on. That was said on the board. And if I simplify that a large majority of those who are entitled to pay will receive nothing at all or will not be entitled to ask or receive anything, then a law will be passed for about 50 to 100 people, probably the biggest investors. There are probably those 50 to 100 persons who have around 97% of all claims in this process. We're not going to write off the 101 grand, no matter what clause you wrote in there, but the law is only being prepared for the greatest ones who have been relieved in these procedures. Looking at how we could fix it, from the point of view of the government, it's strange, to say the least. We have some cases of payments in European practice, we have the case of the Netherlands, you have the case of Spain, Cyprus and Austria for example. These are countries where, with regulated capitalism, regardless of the form of government, even if they are socialist, they are capitalist countries; and there those who have lost their assets have been paid in all countries. As early as 2013, when this procedure was found to be controversial, the States or banks, with the role of the State, provided payment to those people who had been flattered. In our country, however, we have a form of ethics, where the country is first, no matter how much someone is injured in all these procedures. In these cases, when we deal with this law, we are fundamentally deviating from European practice. It is incomprehensible that Slovenia alone is a country which does not ensure the proper resolution of the cases that have been committed in this process. There was also some talk about the European and Slovenian troika. You probably know the difference between the European and Slovenian troika. The European Troika consists of a representative of the ECB, the Monetary Monetary Fund and the European Commission, which would remove this process of resolution of the banking system and at the same time provide funds at an extremely low interest rate of 1 or 2 percentage points. We went with the Slovenian troika, where nothing went wrong; we got money at 7% interest rates on the European or global banking market. Now I ask – Which rescue is cheaper? Is it one or two percent interest rate, or is it one that had a seven percent interest rate in those days? A billion or more euros to this account, we've only overpaid interest. A billion or more. Perhaps there should be a word to be said about that at some point. And what happened was the political responsibility of those who then decided to hide in the banking system that nothing had been revealed in the banking system, that there was nothing responsible in the banking system, not those who ran the banks, not those who controlled the banks, but some people who had no insight into the banking system. No one, no one was cured. [[advertising from the hall]] Who? Can you name it? Who was suspended at the Ljubljana Bank? Has anyone lost their license? Has anyone been punished? Was anyone materially responsible? Did it find out why a bank hole was created in the Ljubljana Bank or another bank? It didn't work out. Such a resolution of the banking system, where no one is to blame, is, to say the least, provocation. Now there is something else about the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. If the Governor of Banka Slovenije was part of that image of the Slovenian troika, which was recorded in government premises, then Banka Slovenije is not independent because she participated in the process from the beginning. Banka Slovenije was an active actor and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took political responsibility for proposing the law; and that coalition also adopted this law. And now hiding behind who is independent of whom there is a blue sky is a problem; for the people who have cooperated in this and have brought this process down are responsible. Unless there are personal findings of responsibility, nothing has been done in these proceedings. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also controls investigative bodies and is obliged to do so, it would be incumbent on it to initiate and press for such procedures to be initiated. Nothing happens. Bankers, bank directors have collected their 100,000 euros or more, they may have moved a little bit, they are now advisers, they will participate as auditors in these damage assessment procedures and so on. However, those who have actually been relieved who have actually suffered from this bank hole will receive nothing or almost nothing. What face does this government have that does? What face? Regardless of what Mr Dragonja is saying here, regardless of what he is saying, it is a first-class scandal to propose a law that is known in advance to be in the wrong direction and that proceedings in the courts will be challenged, in the Constitutional Court and perhaps elsewhere. That's scandalous. No warning given, not in the debate of all Members other than Masha Kociper, has been given by the Legislative and Legal Service. The government has put itself in a good position to challenge the opinion of the Law-Legal Service because it is so right. But that means that this irrational discharge that happened will last another 10 or 15 years. And so long those who have initiated this process will not be politically responsible, will not. If the procedures were short, you could quickly say – Dear Mrs Alenka Bratušek, you have performed this procedure illegally or in any way and are therefore politically responsible. Because of this, there will be no political responsibility. That the problem is even bigger, some have already received a double cartridge in these procedures, some will get nothing, some are supposed to get something, what the SAB has proposed, this is Mr Draganje's client; but those who are on the average salary and have invested don't know what is terribly small, terribly small. 50 large and 50 small, those who had a minimum wage, if that ever happens. Therefore, I believe that a much better proposal was made by the one I myself proposed when I proposed that payments should be made to the subordinates and those who had share capital in these banks, because they were relieved of the Bank of Slovenia support measure by means of a measure by law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that if this by law has been taken away from them without any appreciation, without any audit houses, without any legal offices, 100 or more thousand holders, it can be returned to them in the same way. Mr Secretary of State, your Minister or President of the Government must know that. Something the coalition has taken with the law can return with the law. In a normal country, if the state were normal and the government was normal, that would happen. Because we have a deformed government, because they live the best in this country in a lobby that feeds on individual departments that write studies, research and so on, instead of doing anything in this country, money for those who are injured is always too little. There's always too little damage to pay back. I must say that I think that the conduct of the former government or of the former two governments, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar, as well as the current government is scandalous, scandalous. It is irresponsible to speculate on the extent to which this will then be resolved in judicial proceedings. If it goes consciously into proceedings where there will be legal disputes, it is already stated in the explanation of the law, then it is irresponsible of the representatives of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Dusan Verbich has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u94	Madam Vice President, I don't have a replica; I'd like another round.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u95	But if you don't have a replica, we'll open it. Mr Tanko has a procedural proposal first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 73, I propose that an undisputed oral opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the conformity of the law to which we decide be obtained before the decision is taken, by a decision of the Constitutional Court and also by a constitutional order in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you for your procedural proposal. I don't know who to assure? [[advertising from the hall]] Law enforcement. Before we come to the vote, we will decide on this procedural proposal. I'm opening a new round of applications for discussion. Please sign up. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u98	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The government has been delaying this law for more than two years. I will not personally support this marriage, but I will not support it for a number of reasons. Personally, I am convinced that this marriage is prepared very badly, perhaps in other words — disastrously bad. The fact is, in this case, if this law goes through the legislative procedure today, there is a high likelihood that a constitutional review of this law will follow. And I am sure that the Government does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision that all deleters should be given quality judicial protection, and that this was not the case in the writing of subordinate bonds itself. I don't need to support such a law when I know that it was being prepared by the same team that was preparing the law on the deletion of subordinate bonds. The same team was also in the previous term, in the government of Mira Cerar, preparing this law and did not go through. Now the same faces again, the same team is preparing this law. The fact is, someone here probably has a fig in his pocket and is just trying to bring the matter to the point that no one will ever get anything. I'm personally sure there's been a lot of damage done here. We are talking about the damage of about one billion euros and that the removal of taxpayers was very much a nationalisation. We know how much nationalisation cost Slovenian taxpayers, and here I worry that the matter will be similar. I am one of those who voted against the adoption of such a law in 2013 which would allow for the removal of subordinate bonds, because in my personal opinion the way the government did at that time was not the right way. The Constitutional Court has also partly attached this to it. But this law, which has now been drafted by the government, I don't think it's going anywhere and it's just going in the direction that the matter is being temporarily closed for a few years. The fact is, in particular, that some members of the coalition did not follow the proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee on Finance, which dealt with this law, in order to stop the bill from being bad. However, the argument of some members of the coalition was that the law must be removed from parliamentary benches regardless of the content. And I think that this is a big answer to all that will follow from here on out. The coalition here does not solve the content, the coalition does not solve the mistake that the government of Alenka Bratušek made at the time; but it saves itself that this two-year delay it has will take away from the table. But what will be the consequences later, and of course, there is no question. The Constitutional Court also somehow prohibits separating deletions from well-educated and less-educated investors. It makes no sense, therefore, for me to see some amendments to the story that those who bought the bonds at the bank window would have been paid in advance; yet, there is an additional criterion that they should not have such and different incomes every year. I think that such a path is wrong, and especially that this mistake made by the coalition today by taxpayers may not be today or tomorrow, but I am sure that in a few years, it will cost a lot. The question is also why the position of the European Central Bank is being followed so much. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Government, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, why did you not follow the European Central Bank's opinion in 2013? In 2013, the President of the European Central Bank, Draghi, strongly opposed the European Commission's position that hybrid instruments should be disposed of in the way they were. This should be highlighted. But no, at the time you said, the European Central Bank – no; it is an important position of the European Commission, which has not made such a decision or directed Slovenia, as you may have said Slovenia had to. But I stress, the European Central Bank, President Draghi in 2013 opposed the way hybrid instruments were handled, as proposed by the European Commission at that time. In fact, Banka Slovenije played an active role in this process. For me personally more than actively. She was present on all committees that dealt with this law in the National Assembly. I am convinced that Banka Slovenije should also bear its responsibility in one part. Once again, the prepared marriage is bad, the law is prepared by the government only to be given from the table, regardless of the content itself. I cannot support such a disastrous marriage, but we will certainly be interested in monitoring what will happen here. However, I am sure that this law will not bring a positive side to those for whom the Constitutional Court has also ordered that they have been denied the right to quality judicial protection. Above all, it seems to me that the result of today's legislation will be known mainly in the empty pockets of taxpayers, as it is likely that this mistake, which has been made, will have to be paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I still had to come forward on the basis of the debate so far, because some things need to be highlighted very clearly and explicitly once again. The law itself, and I believe that it is also the intention of the lawmaker, that in a number of cases, and for good purpose, these provisions are followed by a constitutional provision; however, I cannot possibly understand that the proposaler allows or agrees to extend this set of articles to some extent in the procedures of the amendments, so that I do not then most likely speak, perhaps these are strong stakeholders who would like to influence, in one way or another, that this law will in no way be realized, in particular in the interest of those so-called 100,000 investors or holders of securities. The Legislative and Legal Service has also made it very clear that in no case should securities holders be distinguished. It's the classes that kind of condition. And I simply cannot understand that it has been allowed, through this debate, to practically define certain provisions that call us after that and warn us, Members, at least some that, in the event of a struggle, there will be a law in the Constitutional Court, literally after a swift procedure. And I hope to say that this is a mockery of us, for the Constitutional Court will have to rule again on the same matter, which is unusual. It is true that the debate has shown that we Members have a different view and that we have a different interpretation of the constitutional decision. That's why I'm going to read it again, because it wasn't decided, except for the way you explain it. In the 2016 judgment, the Constitutional Court found the existence of an anti-constitutional legal void in the Banking Act due to the absence of specific procedural rules for compensation disputes by holders of deleted or converted qualified rights against the Bank of Slovenia. The Court found that the reasons given in recitals 120 to 125 of the Constitutional Court’s reasoning were ineffective. That is why it has imposed upon the legislator, namely, the National Assembly, the adoption of specific, the nature of the disputed relations of the adjusted rules of the fair procedure. There was virtually no talk about this and there is no connection here, neither the ZUJF, nor the past, 2013 and so on. I understand, but this is a political debate which is an integral part of the work of Members. And just from this finding of what the Constitutional Court has decided, I simply do not see how Article 3a to 3b could have come into this law. On the basis of what direction of the Constitutional Court? However, when the Constitutional Court proposed that it is precisely because of the equal burden of the courts to respect the speed of the proceedings, relative to justice and the like; no, but there is virtually no speech or hearing to follow. The stubbornly insists on the Maribor court, for which, according to some records, as far as I can see, one of the reasons given by the Supreme Court is that it is good for the statistical correction of the court's work, that it belongs in Maribor. We do know, however, that such conflicts are in the category of extreme difficulty in content. The only court in Slovenia that deals with this as much as it does is the Ljubljana Court. They themselves recognise that in such cases this is not such a simple provision. As a result, I can conclude as a Member that this provision is already in law in order not to save those 100,000 or those few 10 that represent the majority, let's say so-called deletions; in particular, with a view to delaying the proceedings. I cannot understand the idea that the position of the Legal and Legislative Service is virtually negated or disregarded. I myself am aware that the Law-Legal Service is an organ or unit within the National Assembly, which is to the exclusive benefit of our Members, if we have any dilemmas and problems relating to any legal interpretation, interpretation or other. I'm also in the position that it's not necessary to be in their position. However, if the Legislative and Legal Service has decided to write down that a particular arrangement literally calls for unconstitutionality, then I think that for Members in such cases, the provision should be a red enough sign for us to start talking a little differently. As far as I'm concerned, I'm on these terms 3a to 3d. The Legislative and Legal Service has consistently followed the Constitutional Decision and has made it very clear that the purpose of the legal regime is to protect all formerly qualified obligations. What binds us is that, at least personally, I look at the position of the Legislative and Legal Service as follows: the legislator must avoid an obvious arbitrary distinction between holders of qualified obligations and so on. It is in this part that we are reminded that the violation of this principle is practically a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. Here I must admit that I do not understand the idea that we are not talking about this kind of content, but we are talking about the so-called social sphere. As far as the social sphere is concerned, the legal and legal service has gone one step further. I must admit that I am grateful for their in-depth analysis and also for the record. Here I must admit that although I am slightly killing you because you have probably not all read their position; and I will read it in relation to Article 3a to Article 3d: "The proposed arrangement by committing to the payment of the flat-rate compensation by Banka Slovenije, at the same time it is based on a social policy measure which is in the country's domain and which is designed to solve the social consequences of restoring confidence in the financial system as well; and that it is a payment which is not linked to compensation under the Constitutional Court's decision, it directly violates the prohibition on financial financing." I must admit that I do not understand certain opinions that appear with Members. That's what I want to point out. We need the law and we owe it, and even in the previous term, the government should be responsible for such a matter; who answers today in the executive or legislative branch of power? [[...]] Maybe when you don't come to the election for a new term of office. But we are talking about at least a billion euros, as has already been said in the debate. And when it was said by a little bit who would pay for it; I tend to be more likely, even if the Bank of Slovenia has been adopted in such a way and in a different way in such legal provisions; whose property is the Bank of Slovenia, and whose entity is the Bank of Slovenia? In the end, it goes back to taxpayers. With all seriousness, a man would not wave his left hand here, only that the law was adopted and so on; but we need it. And here I expect that in such or similar matters, lawmakers are seriously aware of warnings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Verbich, I didn't interrupt you because of this turd. And now I'm canceling the session for 10 minutes to get these things settled before we go any further. We'll pick it up at 1:40. (The sitting was suspended at 13.31 and resumed at 13.40.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u102	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. I apologize for the interruption and for the noise of the renovation of the small hall of the National Assembly. The next one has the word Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for allowing us to continue the work of the National Assembly. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting to the Secretary of State, Mr. Dragonja, with his colleagues! We are discussing the amendments to the amended Law on the Judicial Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Liabilities of Banks. I expected these amendments to go in this direction, to make a substantial improvement in the law, which we all know is practically impossible at this stage. Let me just repeat and recall that New Slovenia voted in favour of the law being suitable for further consideration at the first reading of this law. We had great hopes, and we expected much from the second reading that the law would improve significantly, as it came from the Government in the National Assembly. We have been constructively involved in the second reading, we have also proposed an amendment and allow me to fly over it. In Article 12, we proposed the following paragraph, which reads: "The Court shall, within eight days of the filing of the action, publish publicly on its website the information on the applicants who file the action in accordance with this Article. The published information must contain the name, address, or seat and the amount of the claim. If the applicant holds an application for height in accordance with Article 24 of this Law, the court shall publish the amount of the application within eight days of the date of the application for height.” We are offended that this amendment has not been adopted, but we are in some ways satisfied, and I welcome the fact that the government or coalition has summarized this amendment and, as the government has said, has better explained it. Of course we're here right now on impact, if that's personal data and so on. I have slowly enough of this personal data, because this is actually a problem where we socialize about 1 billion and dump it on all taxpayers. Therefore, it is essential that we should state precisely who are the beneficiaries to be paid because they have been wronged in the process of repairing the bank hole. Some say that this is also legally disputed, that the Constitutional Court can challenge and so forth; I hope that the government and the coalition have been sufficiently supportive here, explained that this is actually a matter of public interest. In this case, the case could go positively across the Constitutional Court as well. We supported another amendment, namely the amendment of the SMC to Article 5. We do not understand why the law provides for the local jurisdiction of the court, namely the Maribor District Court, which is geographically closer to Ljubljana; but if this is decentralisation, then it should not happen. We just don't know why this court is. Nor do I have the right to assess the work of this court; perhaps a court which has never actually received any judgments rejected or returned from a higher level. Nova Slovenija was also the one who did not support or voted against the deletion that we are talking about today in 2013; but this deletion was a state measure. This was not a measure by Banka Slovenije, but I am not a lawyer for Banka Slovenije. I'll probably do it again today. The fact is that the rehabilitation of banks is the wound that actually stopped the development of the Republic of Slovenia for at least one decade, ten years, for a decade. All those countries that were far behind us in 1991, from that eastern one, if you will, the socialist bloc that was far behind us in 1991, all those countries also overrun us because of the rehabilitation of the bank hole on the left and on the right. And today we are creaking and simply cannot achieve any developmental breakthrough into some modern Central European society. Of course, the topic is extremely difficult. The taxpayers, who will bear the burden if this law is passed, probably at least in the vast majority do not understand what is happening again in the National Assembly, what we are talking about, why we are talking about one billion. And when we thought that this bank hole was closed, we could talk about five billion, we could talk about three and a half because of me, and the sumarum was five billion if we were to add all the recapitalisations. And this is practically more than half of the current budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why it is so much more justified when I talk about the fact that the rehabilitation of banks has developed or stopped us for at least ten years. And as I said before, when I thought that this dimension of the bank hole had been completed, written down, booked, if you want, at five billion now we see that this is not yet; and that this bank hole is actually still growing. If we are talking about subordinates, let us speak to the public, according to our assessment, according to the assessment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, we must put them in three drawers. Next, they are investors who bought subordinate bonds at bank windows at bank windows. Then these are the investors who bought subordinate bonds on the secondary market and the owners of subordinate bonds, and I will tell them myself who are hiding in Dublin and Luxembourg where else. From here comes this motive for our amendment to Article 12, which spoke of the need to publish publicly the data of all those who, if they will, will be paid, that the taxpayers know, who and who we have actually given the money to. And, of course, we have also read some European literature at this time, because we are not the only ones in Europe who have had these problems. And if we just translated Italian legislation regulating the rights of deleted subordinates, the first group of subordinates would be said to have been paid long ago by those who bought on the bank counter. And never another group and a third group. And here's the problem. These two groups prevent the first group from being paid, but this also corresponds to the government, because at least for the time being it does not have to pay the subordinates from the budget. This applies to any government, including the previous one, I am sorry that I will not criticize or mention only the current government. Colleagues and colleagues, it is perfectly normal to correspond, as it is said, to this government, because it does not need to use budgetary resources to pay, although we do not know exactly the time, the date when these payments will have to be made. Whether these funds should already be reserved in the budget for the following year and year 2021 or at a later date, we do not know. And that is why stupidity with the law is supposed to allow for the judicial protection of deleted owners of subordinated instruments. The second and third groups of subordinates cannot meet the first requirement laid down by the Italian proposal, and I am still talking about it, which says: Prove that you bought subordinate bonds in the primary edition. So this situation is similar to the pradox that happened – watch out, I'm going back to history, I don't like it, but I have to, and some parallels can be pulled – at the end of the bank's SKB safes a few years ago. A number of safe owners did not require payment of the contents of the safes, as they should thus prove the origin of their assets. Above all, the third group of taxpayers, which I am not the only one talking about, is hiding behind custody accounts in Dublin and Luxembourg, is likely to have some problems with this, i.e. by proving the origin of property. And I'm sure there's enough evidence and documents to prove it any minute. The KDD has lists of the first and second groups of subordinates and they know on the Bank who owns their papers in Luxembourg. There is also opposition to this law by Banka Slovenije, and once again, I am not a lawyer of Banka Slovenije, but the rehabilitation of banks has been carried out by the state. This was where laws were passed which, in effect, enabled the then government in 2013 to implement the rehabilitation of banks, as it had imagined. Once again, Nova Slovenija voted against the deletion of the subordinates we are talking about today. And if by this logic, if the state has carried out bank rehabilitation, then the state, the government, the National Assembly, or the budget must be responsible here. Of course, this is difficult, it is now difficult to provide funds in the budget or at least part of the funds that will have to be paid to these subordinates once. It is therefore the easiest thing to overcome this financial burden on Banka Slovenije. True, someone has already said, and I agree, sumarum, we are always the taxpayers who are going to have to bring this billion together, in their own words. That's why we have high taxes, income and so on. And again, it's some kind of developmental bar that just can't breathe. Anyone can read the comments of the European Central Bank. We often forget that we are part of the Eurosystem, that we have a common European currency called the euro; and that there are certain rules within this Eurosystem that, of course, the rules on financial autonomy, the autonomy of the Bank of Slovenia also apply. What happens here if this law is passed? Mr. Draganjo and I had very proper conversations in my office. My fear, which I have expressed to him, I am now publicly articulating here too, is this - the question is: Will the European Central Bank be able to sue the Republic of Slovenia if the Bank of Slovenia has to pay these subordinates? It has a legal basis, the European Central Bank has a legal basis to sue the Republic of Slovenia. Or maybe the government or someone, I don't know, I'm not a lawyer, the Republic of Slovenia, whatever we do. And here we have a problem. All that we are saying is that there is some discomfort in people, some additional Euroscepticism, what this European Central Bank is, what the European Commission is now, and what they can do to us. But in the second national consensus, we have decided to become members of the European Union. And then we decided to take over the common European currency – the euro. The key point of the European Central Bank is the law requiring Banka Slovenije to pay compensation for damages in accordance with this proposal of the law and that this requirement, this provision of the law is incompatible, I stress that it is incompatible with the prohibition of financial financing if the Bank of Slovenia, as a result of it, assumes the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia and comments on the consequences of this requirement for the Bank of Slovenia's financial independence due to the possible impact of the bill on the Bank of Slovenia's financial assets. This can immediately imagine that we will probably have a problem here with the European Central Bank. Of course we know how to stand up to some opposition and say, "Look, ugly European Central Bank. Maybe someone will say in the next step: "Let's get out of the euro area, let's get the euro back, we've had a tolar better." Unfortunately, the climate, the state of the spirit, if you like, in this country. And this is also the fault of politics, not just the media, but also of politics, to create such a strange climate. And then I say it normally, although today is not the subject of this agenda item, but then I can explain to myself why 48% of the people who answered the Eurobarometer's questions would say that it would be better for me to be a single country, if you want, an isolated country, not to be members of the European Union. That's 48% of them to me. After this percentage, we are recorders in the European Union. That's what I'm worried about. There are even more reasons when I've given them a few things so that after we've supported the law in the first reading and said, OK, let's go to the second reading, otherwise we can't adapt it and we need to solve it, we are aware of it; but now we've actually got marriage solutions that aren't acceptable to us. We will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. We're at the amendment to Article 8. Anybody else want to discuss this? I do not see a desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 8. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, Mr. Verbich, then we'll call it off. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Since we are still in this part of the general work, where permitted, because of the importance of the content of individual provisions, it turns out that I am opposed to individual provisions, although I claim that the law should be adopted in such a content as follows by the Constitutional Court, I have previously touched on the ratio of Article 3 to Article 3.d. I have already mentioned in my debate that there is also an unacceptable provision in Article 22 when it comes to a group of experts. For it is not disputed in the provision that a person who has been in the period of 12 months prior to the expiry of an exceptional measure or the time of implementation of an exceptional measure should not be in the status of expert for whom it is the key jurisdiction of the court to appoint him. There's no issue here. But it's time. And I'm asking the proposer, what about 12 months ago? Earlier in the debate, I mentioned that this so-called bank hole had been happening since 2005 without a policy, because these were state-owned banks that approved, we know, loans without insurance, and I will not continue to speak. Why am I so firm about this? Because such a provision opens up the possibility for those persons who were normally members of the administration and supervisory boards of the state-owned banks who were heard before the parliamentary commission of inquiry to determine the liability of 5 billion. I must admit, to the surprise of everyone, with rare exceptions, everyone was practically scurvy, not knowing what was going on in the past or what they had decided. With this provision, we open up the possibility for these persons to appear legitimately after a court decision as an expert or expert to assist the court in its decision, to assess the evidence concerning these so-called deleted. I think that this is unacceptable, and it is not hygienic that a legislative body, with a provision, opens the way for people who have in the past practically caused what we have. However, I will only touch on the 22nd article because I believe that this article has also subsequently come in and is talking about the court being able to ask the European Central Bank on a proposal from a party and so on. Who is the representative of the Republic of Slovenia at the European Central Bank? If memory does not deceive me, it is the Governor who has taken this decision who has assured himself, I suppose, because he also implemented that directive in 2013 in Slovenia, which was not binding because it has not yet had the status of the directive, but it was a recommendation. And since the Republic of Slovenia was obviously projective at the time, it was decided to the detriment of these securities owners. What does this article mean? If I lay eyes on him that he literally has the opportunity to propose, indirectly, he himself will explain to the court why this has occurred. This is also an intervention in the judicial jurisdiction of the court, as the judge in the Administrative Procedure Act must abide by the principles of the Judicial Procedure Act. And it says that it judges and leads according to the principle of free judgment, in accordance with the principle of cost-effectiveness of procedure as well as speed. Practically, such a provision literally gives a person the idea that there are elements inside to delay these procedures indefinitely. Far from allowing the court then to judge in a peaceful and just and timely manner with those fundamental principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Method of Dragonja, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I have not been able to provide all of them in detail in the course of my previous intervention, but I would now, in particular, answer Mr Verbic's specific questions, which have been raised in relation to the expert group. With regard to the group of experts, it is worth stressing that in general these justices will be governed by the Law of Justice. This law contains only specific provisions and additional criteria to be met by experts forming this group of experts; or limitations and conflicts of interest. However, in accordance with the Judicial Procedure Act, all parties participating in the proceedings shall have the opportunity to request the appointment of certain experts if they consider that they will be biased in their work. The identification of an expert as such is available and these provisions have been coordinated with the Ministry of Justice, the Legislative and Legal Service and can be said to have been harmonised. Secondly, you mentioned that a category of qualifying obligations should not differ according to their owners. As regards these Articles from 3a to 3d, these articles were proposed by one of the groups of Members. They have been coordinated with the Legislative and Legal Service, so that the Government has not intervened in this regard and has not proposed any additional explanations or, say, improvements to these provisions. All that relates to these provisions, flat-rate compensations, I can only say that we have in principle supported it, to shorten procedures, to give a shortcut to individual holders, establishes another legal basis for this law, such as the 350th paragraph and the Constitutional Court's decision. However, these provisions may be subject to challenge in the Constitutional Court. This is the risk that the Legislative and Legal Service draws attention to. It is important, however, that, irrespective of whether or not these provisions of this specific mechanism are available, there is a genuine flat-rate compensation, or any other provision challenged before the Constitutional Court, that deleted holders will have at their disposal legal remedies, so that these claims can be lodged so that they have access to the data so that they can substantiate their claims. This in itself, if any of the articles are subject to further constitutional review, will not prevent judicial protection against deleted holders of qualified obligations. This also applies to those provisions which you have discussed relating to the payment of compensation, i.e. Article 26. Even if there are major disagreements with regard to the implementation or enforcement of these provisions, these procedures will run parallel to the exercise of the compensation liability of former deleted holders. If such initiatives are taken, they will be decided, even if this is decided at European level. I mentioned in the previous performance that we have a number of professional arguments in a specific situation in which exceptional measures have been implemented in Slovenia to erase qualified obligations in order to justify this. In particular, it is necessary to draw from the situation under the legal and regulatory arrangements in force at the time of the deletion; not from some arrangement which came later and which one or the other would like to see in force, or to retroactively interfere with the regime in force at the time. If I would point out once again that a constitutional decision must be implemented. On this point, it is likely that all parliamentary groups and the whole Parliament agree. This is also the goal of the government. The law opens up the possibility of judicial protection for deleted holders of qualified obligations. If one of the provisions restricts them too much, it may be subject to a re-constitutional judgment. We will defend and explain these solutions, but none of these obvious potential unconstitutionalities will stop the continued exercise of rights by former holders. As far as responsibility is concerned, I have stressed in my performance that retroactive interference with accountability, as regulated by the Banking Act, cannot and will not be accepted by the government and the Ministry of Finance. In this part, Banka Slovenije will have to accept its share of responsibility as defined in ZBan-1. The government also assumes its share of responsibility in the part where it has participated in these measures, as it has established a mechanism which will represent some kind of burden sharing if there is a situation where these claims from former holders in judicial proceedings will also be resolved favourably. Notwithstanding these criticisms to which we are exposed, as regards the solutions contained in the proposal for a law, we propose that the constitutional decision be implemented and that it be possible for former holders to exercise judicial protection as soon as possible in the part in which they believe that they have been harmed or deprived of these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I don't see a desire for a debate, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups. Does anyone want to discuss it here? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 32a and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups. Does anyone want to discuss it here? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on value added tax. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ms Natalija Kovac Jereb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u109	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I will present below the main solutions to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The main purpose of the legislative amendments this time is to transpose the two European directives to be adopted by the end of this year and should be implemented with effect from 1 January 2020. The first is Directive 2018/1910 on the harmonisation and simplification of certain rules under value added tax. It lays down rules for the taxation of specific transactions and restrictions on the possibility of abuse and avoidance of value added tax in the supply of goods between Member States with a view to improving the coherence of national rules and ensuring greater legal certainty for taxpayers. In cross-border trade, new rules, rules in the framework of the re-storage arrangements and successive chain supply arrangements are introduced as the current rules across Member States vary and make cross-border transactions difficult for taxpayers. With regard to the use of the exemption in the supply of goods to another Member State, the VAT identification number of the acquirer of goods shall be set as a substantive condition for the application of the exemption for the supply of goods in trade within the European Union. The second Directive is Directive 2019/475 as regards the inclusion of the Italian municipality Campione d'Italia and the Italian waters of the Lugansk Lake in the customs territory of the Union. These are two enclaves in the territory of Switzerland. As from 1 January 2020, these two Italian enclaves would be excluded from the application of the VAT system in the customs territory of the Union and in the territorial application of Directive 2008/118/EC on the general excise duty regime. The law also introduces the possibility of applying a reduced value added tax rate to electronic publications and thus aligns them with printed publications. The lower rate is currently used for the supply of books, newspapers and periodicals on all physical media; not for publications supplied electronically. Among other things, the bill also removes the obligation to correct the value added tax deduction in officially proven thefts. However, the next and last set of amendments included in the draft law is an update of the entire chapter on criminal provisions, which follows the general direction of gradual recast of tax offences and a more equal treatment of offenders. In most cases, the maximum fines at risk are reduced and their height is adjusted to the economic power of offenders; at the same time, the offences are redistributed to ordinary and worse ones. It is envisaged that the law will apply as from 1 January 2020, with the exception of certain minor amendments to the law which will apply from the date of the entry into force of the law, shall be effective on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the law be upheld. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u111	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its first meeting on 11 September this year, the Committee on Finance considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act as its parent working body. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the following materials: the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article five. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and the Director of the Public Book Agency attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the purpose of the bill because it was a transposition of the two directives of the European Union and presented them in more detail below. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that in her opinion, she had drawn particular attention to the importance of the substantive transposition of directives and to the references to individual laws. In doing so, she said that the comments of the services with the amendments tabled had been taken into account. In its opening remarks, the Director of the Public Book Agency presented the case of Norway as a positive example of a reduction in the value added tax rate. Support for the bill was expressed in the debate. Questions were raised regarding value added tax on so-called free publications, advertising and video content. In particular, the issue of value added tax on electronic media was raised, where the rate decreases from 22% to 9.5%, but remains higher than the projected rate for physical books in the future proposal. In the Norwegian case, it was explained that this country is not a member of the European Union, which Slovenia is. Slovenia, as a member, must respect the European Union rules on the uniform system of value added tax. The question was also raised as to how the changes would affect the effectiveness of the collection of that tax. During and after the discussion, the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided additional clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u113	A nice welcome to all present, and especially to the secretary of state, of course, to the Vice-President of the National Assembly! I will not discuss the transposition of the Directive of the European Union this time, as the Legislative and Legal Service has already said everything. Directives are always transposed in substance and not literally; well, they should be transposed. With regard to storage at call, I believe that the arrangement will be suitable for certain business operators, but it also brings additional administration, new records and new lines to the RPO. At the same time, however, I am concerned that such a deferred tax obligation will not also make it possible to abuse. If I think of a specific case, for such or other reasons, the recipient of goods may also change within one year, bankruptcy may occur, liquidity problems may arise, and the closure of the business entity may also occur. The prohibition on the establishment of an activity or a permanent establishment is also unclear. Does this mean that they must not be at the beginning of the shipment of goods, or should they not be at the end? What if the taxable person opens the office after six months? Do you have the answers to that? The easiest thing to do is to say that business entities need to adjust their records. Tell me who's gonna control this. The VAT area in Slovenia has already caused so much damage that we can no longer afford new loopholes in marriage. The additional obligation to report distance supplies to other Member States should allow for a greater review of supplies. That's good, but only if this report is supervised by someone. If you want to just burden the economy with a new administrative measure, let us not accept it. I hope that you have taken the latest decisions of the European Court of Justice into account regarding the so-called order or chain supplies. I also agree with the addition of the article on VAT exemptions for the supply of goods to another Member State. In accounting, they are increasingly having problems with those business entities that only operate through re-entry. Some business accounts are no longer sent to business entities. In addition, it is very difficult to find the tax number of foreign entities. Although we do have VIES where the tax numbers are checked, many documents do not have tax numbers. The name of the business entity itself is not enough to search for a tax number. The addition of an article on VAT deduction adjustment, which does not need to be corrected in the case of theft, is a good solution. The proposal also introduces a deadline for debtors who acquire a new or used means of transport from another Member State. The debtor is certainly in the interest of registering the means of transport as soon as possible. Taxpayers report that they are increasingly having problems with the Financial Administration confiscating their original documents after months or years. They don't have any authority to do that. The Financial Administration would prefer to check all means of transport which are constantly operated by foreign registration codes on Slovenian roads without the payment of Slovenian VAT. I don't know how much impact a reduced tax rate could have on electronic publications, but I think it would still be better for the eyes to be more friendly if people read publications in printed editions. In the end, we touch the offenses. Slovenian tax law is already one way or another without a theoretical basis. But the worst is in the area of crimes. The Financial Administration of these days fines anyone who has not entered data on the beneficial owner in the register. The fine is €6,000 for society and €400 for the responsible person. What does that mean in practice? Whoever establishes a new d. o. o., the actual owner must, within eight days, register that he owns d. o. o., although this information is already in the business register and can be checked every day and at any time by anyone online. The financial board has taken these people down. Financial officials could at least call these people, not talk – we are only implementing the law, but it is accepted by Members. Isn't that sad?Oh, my God! Then we ask the Director of Financial Management who owns ELECTE Holding, d. o. o., or Glanz, d. o. o.; he does not know. You should know, given the amount of debt they have; well, I apologize for having both of them. In the Slovenian National Party, we are absolutely against high fines for offences in which people do not take any advantage. A single zero could be deleted in the VAT law, as fines are already going into absurdity. How can a healthy person write down a fine of up to 150 000 euros in marriage? Do we even know what fines we prescribe as legislators? Those who serve millions of dividends from dirty money abroad get a fine of 240 euros if they do not report their incomes. Is this in line with the principle of proportionality? The legislator must take fines according to the obligations of those who make them. All inspectorates in Slovenia should first aim to meet their legal obligations. Next, we prevent it, then, if the warning doesn't depend on it, let the fines follow. And one thing, we Slovenians are good people. Yeah, good people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Every year, we are amending the value added tax law at least twice in order to include the European Union in this law. For these Directives, the basic issue and the real underlying problem is that we often simply copy them without, of course, understanding them in certain cases. Even less, in order to actually adapt them to our taxpayer, our system in order to make the system as simple and transparent as possible. The Law-Legal Service also constantly draws attention to this issue. And there has not been much change in the transposition of this Directive or the guidelines. The next question relating to this Guideline is that this Guideline provides the Italian area of the European Union with a special position. Here we are talking about the tourist area, we are talking about Lake Lugansk, the area around Lake Lugansk, where value added tax is not paid. This is why the argument that we are talking about a common tax is, of course, somewhat inaccurate, especially because we have a number of areas in Europe that are excluded from value added tax. When the question was whether even in Slovenia we could exclude a certain area from the value added tax system, it was said by the then government, the previous governments, – No, this is not possible because the directive does not allow it. Now we have an example of a directive allowing a specific area to be excluded from value added tax. Which means, in other words, that the then government certainly did not work hard enough to go through the whole process in Europe, because it is possible to exclude an area from value added tax. And this could also be considered for a specific area in Slovenia. I won't tell anyone right now, because then it would always be a question of why not someone else. But I think this would be a matter for the National Assembly to actually do. The next question is, of course, to align electronic information on taxation with so-called printed information. And here it is. After all, here's the question why we didn't do it before, why European bureaucracy didn't do it before. And the second question is, why is this rate still so high? Lower rate – 9.5 And this isn't about any system, it's some kind of system arrangement. The system determines the minimum rate to be, which is 5%. Why do we have 9.5 and why does the government never ask the applicants to lower these levels, but, of course, another question? And this government has never actually done that. And it is not a systemic issue of the level of rates, especially of all those rates that are above 5%, that is what the European Union or European rules set out. Here is a question that this government is not referring to and should actually be. And the next question is: it is true that the penalties are being reduced, but they are still enormously high. The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia does not seek a tax base, does not seek tax on taxpayers, but simply punishes them. In the case of a person who helped a distant relative, she did not determine how much tax base his income was from this title, but said – 1,000 euros, ladies and gentlemen. In particular, such an activity by the tax administration is certainly contrary, if not to the other, to tax rules and, of course, to humanity. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in view of these solutions, we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u117	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the proposed law is to transpose the two European directives to be adopted by the end of this year. However, they should be implemented with 1. 1. 2020. They will bring into our legal order certain rules of transactions and restrictions on the possibility of abuse and avoidance of value added taxes in the supply of goods between Member States. As the current rules vary across Member States and make cross-border business more difficult, new rules are introduced in the context of the call-back regime and chain supply arrangements. We thus pursue the objective of coordinating national rules and ensuring greater legal certainty for taxpayers in cross-border trade. At the same time, the proposal for a novel in Slovenia introduces the possibility of applying a reduced tax rate to added value to electronic publications and thus aligning them with printed publications. Currently, a lower rate is applied to the supply of books and periodicals to all physical media, and not to publications supplied electronically. The possibility of applying a reduced VAT rate to electronic publications also enabled Member States to amend Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the VAT rates applicable to books, newspapers and periodicals applied in December 2018. We support this solution in the Marjana Sarca Group and expect the next amendment to the VAT Act to be considered soon. With it, we will further reduce VAT by 5% for books, newspapers and other periodical publications, which will address the difficult conditions that have been faced by print media and book publishers in the last period. And let us recall, it is a rare unity seen when 90 Members contributed their signature to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! The vast majority of the content of this bill is the provisions that bring the revised European Directive into Slovenia's legal order. The value added tax system must be continuously upgraded in the related European Economic Area in order to avoid tax evasion, evasion and aggressive tax planning, with which the taxpayers unduly reduce their tax base. Harmonised tax legislation is crucial here, and we also support the proposed amendments in the Group of Social Democrats. For us and for the Slovenian written word, however, it is important to provide for a new provision that eliminates the senseless regime whereby books and newspapers are taxed at a lower rate of 9.5% value added tax, while books and publications issued in electronic form or published online are taxed at a higher rate of 22% value added tax all these years. This has prevented the development of Slovenian creativity, so we social democrats are happy to finally find a solution that will tax all literary and public works with the same and reduced VAT rate, regardless of whether they are issued in paper or electronic versions. The effort for tax measures to relieve the Slovenian written word is a goal that goes beyond political and party divisions. Members and Members of all parties have already made it clear several times that they should introduce the lowest possible rate of taxation for publishing books and newspapers because of their great social importance and protecting the Slovenian language. That is why we have also signed a proposal for a second law by which Slovenia would introduce a so-called super-reduced tax rate of 5% to tax all books and publications, irrespective of its physical form. Therefore, when this law was being considered on the committee, it was unpleasant for us to be surprised by the opinion of the representative of the Ministry of Finance, who felt that it would be reasonable to use this only for books in printed form after the introduction of the additional reduced VAT rate; not for their electronic versions. This would re-create the senseless difference that we are finally eliminating after many years. Social Democrats are convinced that the Slovenian written word must be taxed at the lowest possible rate, regardless of the physical occurrence. We will continue to pursue this objective. We will therefore support today's proposal in the Group of Social Democrats, which, after many years, ensures the same and reduced taxation of books and newspapers. We will also insist on a further reduction in the value added tax rate when considering the bill's parliamentary proposal, so that at least minimal support is given to Slovenian creators and publishers. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Vice President. We will also support today's change in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, as has been said several times before, by which we change and reduce the tax rate for print and electronic media. What is more important to us, of course, is that this is only the first step. The second step is followed by an article that is expected and will reduce the tax rate to the permitted, of course also by a directive possible, only for printed media. Although we have warned on the committee about various speculations, there are also print media in Slovenian, which in more than 50 percent represent advertising; but not what we want, which is to encourage the Slovenian word, is true literature, and the dissemination and preservation of the Slovenian word. Nevertheless, it is especially important for us to ask ourselves today why we are only changing this today and why we are not already. The fact is that the previous directive did not allow us to do this, because it in some ways ordered a single tax rate. However, the new directive changes things. In the Modern Centre Party, we will accept and support these changes and thus enable publishers to make it easier and better to market with the Slovenian word; in a positive sense, the Slovenian word is preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u123	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The amendments to the law that are before us today are transposed into our legal order by the two directives of the European Union, which also bring about a few changes. These changes aim to better fill the gaps that have emerged in business and try to curb the value added tax margins. Transferred changes in the area of mandatory submission of VAT identification number for supplies of goods to another Member State, changes in the field of storage, calls in another Member State, mandatory documentation of events to prove delivery to another Member State will at least contribute slightly to greater fairness at regulatory level and allow the sanctioning of offenders, which is also covered by the scope of tax offences and sanctions. In particular, more clear provisions on the possible abandonment of prosecution for a misdemeanour are welcome, in the event of a correction of the account being submitted, shall be made in the event of self-declaration. From the point of view of red tape, there are no major benefits and no additional burdens. RTV contribution will now be exempt from value added tax across the Union and it should be noted that in Slovenia VAT on RTV contribution is no longer charged. What we are particularly interested in in in this regard is the field of books and books. The following Council Directive (EU) 2018/1713, which allows Member States to apply a lower VAT rate to books, newspapers and periodicals, is provided for in the proposal for a law providing that electronic publications may be subject to the same VAT rate as those applied to publications on physical media. Thus, the bill introduces a lower, 9.5% VAT rate for electronic publications. In doing so, materials that are wholly or mainly intended for advertising, as well as those that include more than 50% of music, movies and games, including gambling and lottery games, are excluded, as well as performances and events from the fields of politics, culture, art, sport, science and entertainment. We are also concerned in Levica that we do not have enough safeguards to prevent abuse in the supply of advertising content and video audio content, which are not affected by the reduced rate, in digital publications providers and distributors offering them against payment. It must be acknowledged that the reduced rate of tax from 22% to 9.5% is certainly welcome, although the European Union's legal framework also allows for a minimum rate of 5% or even zero, for which the state has to meet certain conditions and for which we have been fighting and fighting in Levica all the time, in order to tax all publications at the lowest possible rate or zero rate, which would be the right path to more accessible reading, encourages our reading culture, development and universal society. In its assessment of the impact of the reduction of VAT on electronic publications, the applicant states that economic operators providing electronic publications will use a lower VAT rate in their deliveries, which will make it easier for the public to access electronic publications when economic operators respond appropriately. The impact of the VAT reduction on the supply of electronic publications will therefore be reflected in an appropriate reduction in final prices, in order to benefit consumers, not only the bookkeeping or publishing sector. In Levi, we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, although it seems reasonable for us to introduce, at all, electronicly supplied publications and publications on physical media, the lowest possible rate, preferably zero rate of tax; to which we will continue to strive to have a zero rate written in one of the future amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! The fact is that often changing tax legislation means tax instability; and this is not good. But since it is to a greater extent the implementation of the European acquis into Slovenia's legal order, and since representatives of the Slovenian Government should also be involved in the creation of the European acquis, I can conclude that what is good for the EU 27 is also good for Slovenia. On the Committee on Finance, I supported the draft law proposed by the Government, and today the whole New Slovenia Group will also do so. We will therefore vote in favour. I would have another comment here, which we hear repeatedly from the Legislative and Legal Service; and this is that too many of our Slovenian laws actually understand the directive as a simple copy of the directive into Slovenian law. That's not good. The Directive is just some direction. We propose and expect that in the future these warnings from the Legal and Legislative Services will also be taken into account. I will not list all the good points proposed by this law; but, of course, I will also touch myself, as most of my predecessors, reduced rates of value added tax for publications on paper and in digital form. Here I would like, colleagues and colleagues, to recall Council Directive (EU) 2018/1713 of 6 November 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards value added tax rates applicable to books, newspapers and periodicals. On my own, on the Committee on Finance, I also had a problem with a brief contact between the Government and between the law of the Member States, which, as we have already heard, was signed by all 90 Members. This parliamentary law refers to a 5 % value added tax rate for printed publications, i.e. those on paper. However, in accordance with the Communication from the European Commission of 6 May 2015 on the Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe and in order to allow for the monitoring of technological progress in the digital economy, this Directive provides an opportunity for Member States to align VAT rates for electronic publications with lower VAT rates for publications supplied on physical media, this is on paper. Now we have a dissonance here. The government is proposing a 9.5% VAT rate; the parliamentary law proposes 5%, but okay, let's say this is the first step. When we consider the law of the Member States, let me just say – I hear that we have something here for the interlocutors – that the Group of Members will do its utmost to ensure that both publications on physical media and digital publications, in line with the Digital Strategy and the Digital Single Market in the European Union, have the same super-reduced rate of 5%. True, many times we are just full of mouths, what the Slovenian language means, the mother tongue, but we have the opportunity, colleagues and colleagues to do something with our decisions now, which I think will make at least a little contribution to the accessibility of publications and books a little easier – read a little cheaper. This year, at the 100th anniversary of the merger of the Premur Slovenes with the native people, we can best understand what the mother tongue means. One group of Slovenians, about 100,000 premurski Slovenes, has been preserved under some foreign authority for almost a thousand years, more precisely over 900 years, exclusively on the basis of what has connected them. And they were connected by a common language, the Premur language of the book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u127	Dear Members and Members, Vice President! The aim of the bill is to harmonise with European directives and implement specific solutions for simplifying and simplifying practices between Member States regarding taxation in specific transactions. Such legislation in national legislation will limit the possibility of abuse and avoidance of VAT payments in supply between Member States. In the SAB Group on supply between Member States, we welcome this regime, which brings about greater legal certainty and greater competitiveness for domestic companies on the European market. The first European Directive of 2018 introduces into the Slovenian legal order a special arrangement for storage for recall and subsequent supplies. Storage for recall means that only the transfer of goods to another Member State will not be counted as the delivery of these goods. Delivery only occurs when the goods reach the final user. This means that only then does the VAT obligation arise. In this way, we simplify and simplify the business of economic operators in the European Union. The Directive eliminates the uneven practice of successive supplies of goods between Member States. The proposed new legal solution transposes a uniform rule into Slovenian law. It will apply to all Member States and it will allow for a clear definition of the transaction to which the transport of goods will be attributed. The Directive this year provides for the inclusion of the Italian municipality Campione d'Italia and the Italian waters of the Lugano Lake in the Union and in the territory of the application of the 2008 Directive. We need to transpose the Directive into Slovenian legislation due to the correct and uniform definition of the scope of the EU rules on value added tax. Taking into account the fact that Member States are allowed to apply a lower VAT rate to books, newspapers and periodicals, the aim of the bill is to apply the same VAT rate to electronic publications offering the same reading content as to publications on physical media. The law thus introduces a lower value added tax rate for electronic publications of 9,5 %, which is now applicable to printed publications. In the SAB Group, we believe that this is the right path, since we are equating the tax treatment of printed electronic publications and, like the state, making both types of publications more accessible to readers. As a country, we are responsible and are able to take appropriate measures in the future that will bring the Slovenian language and word closer to the citizens and citizens. This will contribute to the rise of reading culture, which has plummeted dramatically in Slovenia in recent years. In addition to transposing Directives, the law updates and aligns criminal provisions with existing existing legislation, such as the Offences Act and the Tax Procedure Act. In the area of reform of criminal provisions, by uniting the ranges of sanctions at risk and other changes, equal treatment of taxpayers under different tax rules is sought. However, by establishing the criteria for when the nature of the offence is considered to be particularly serious, the legal certainty of the debtors is enhanced while limiting the discretionary right of the tax authority, and that is a good thing. In the SAB, we support the amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The primary objective of tax policy is to realize the planned budgetary revenues. The amount of tax revenue in the overall revenue structure is crucial in the function of achieving the budgetary objectives, in the specific case of creating the budgetary surplus and reducing the country's external debt. The correction of the value added tax tax tax system requires not only the availability of the transposition of European directives into Slovenian practice, but also the importance of the amount of value added tax collected in the implementation of all the budgetary functions of the State. The value added tax is the total revenue of the State budget. The annual amount of revenue under this heading amounts to more than 8 % of gross domestic product, in 2017 EUR 3.5 billion, in 2018 EUR 3 billion and EUR 760 million. The instruments for simplifying the procedures for calculating value added tax and preventing VAT avoidance in trade between Member States are at the heart of the functional nature of the European directives we are considering today. Simplification of procedures and simplification of practices relate to the following areas of action. Special arrangements shall be made for the storage for recall, the establishment of specific conditions under which goods are transferred from one Member State to another, without such transfer being considered as the delivery of goods. Reporting obligation with respect to distance deliveries made to other Member States. Uniformity of the rules on the taxation of goods in the case of multiple successive supplies. In the case of a proven theft of property, the debtor does not have to correct the VAT deduction previously imposed, so there will be no more such financial burden for the debtor. It might also be helpful to add what may have been overlooked. It will be necessary to report on the acquisition of new and used means of transport in electronic form to the tax authority within 15 days of the date of acquisition. The criminal provisions have been recast and it is laid down here, and when a prosecution may be suspended as a result of an offence if the liable person removes the infringement by submitting the invoice or by correcting the account in the context of a self-application. The most important proposed amendment will allow a reduced VAT rate to be applied to electronic publications. This will account for 9,5 % of the tax rate, for example for library rentals, books on all physical carriers, newspapers and periodicals. Whether a reduction in the tax rate will boost interest in the use of electronic publications, the most optimistic forecasts even help to raise the reading culture – we do not know that today. We can only hope so. The only thing that is clear is that in revenue from value added tax, there will be a decrease of €1 million in annual value. It's manageable and replaceable. In the Desus Group, we support the introduction of these directives into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, so we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on amendments to the law on road traffic laws. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and first-signed Members, Joseph Horvato, demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On 17 June this year, we received an initiative to amend the legislation under which the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, Rescue Station, Health and Granny Care Chamber of Slovenia, Medical Rescue Section. Practically right after that, 20. 6. Nova Slovenija tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act. First of all, I should like to state what is said in this initiative to amend the legislation of the above mentioned entities: "The undersigned are taking the initiative that drivers of vehicles with advantage, escorts and vehicles accompanied by vehicles shall not be punished for an offence in the event that they become involved in a traffic accident during the use of blue lights and siren. We believe that the fines and penalty points are unnecessary and harmful.” They continue to explain: “The Road Traffic Safety Act in its 101st Article stipulates that vehicles with the advantage, escorts and accompanying vehicles do not have to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, but they must drive in such a way and at such a speed that they control the vehicle all the time and do not endanger other road users or their property.” What are we following Members of New Slovenia in the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act? By supplementing the law, we want to ensure that drivers of vehicles with the advantage and vehicles to be accompanied by emergency driving would not be penalised for violations of traffic rules and traffic signals. We must not forget, dear colleagues, that these drivers, when they are on the so-called emergency rides, save human lives. And what is more valuable than human life? In the proposal to supplement the law, we are primarily pursuing respect for the principle of proportionality and the rule of law. If the law allows preferred vehicles and accompanying vehicles not to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, they may not be penalised in the event of a traffic accident. In this case, there is also a violation of the principle of mutual compliance with the legal order. The law allows the driver of a vehicle with an advantage or accompanied vehicle to disregard traffic rules and traffic signals. In the event of an accident where there is a sudden event in which he has no direct influence, he is punished for his conduct. At the same time, it is a common human and ethical question, for it cannot be punished by someone who saves lives. Complementing the law to all drivers of vehicles with the advantage and accompanying vehicles, where specific lighting and sound signs are used to carry out certain emergency tasks, implies that they will also not be penalised as a result of violations of traffic rules and traffic signals. This exception applies to emergency driving that saves people's lives, property or, if necessary, the exercise of urgent tasks to ensure public safety and respect for the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, it is provided that the driver of the emergency vehicle shall not be subject to the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs and other psychoactive substances. In New Slovenia, we sincerely want to end the current completely lifeless solution by supplementing the law. Colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to a constructive debate. Surely the text of the law's amendment is not ideal. That is why we have the opportunity to improve the law in the second reading. But we need to get there with the help of most of your voices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Bojan Podkrodšek will present to us the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u133	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, all those who accompany this meeting today! We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act. The honourable Members and Members, when the Road Safety Act comes to the National Assembly, are certainly all Members and Members of this National Assembly, as this is a matter of road safety. In road transport, at the pace we are living today, most citizens and citizens are involved daily. We must pay particular attention when we have before us a proposal to amend the law for vehicles using light and sound signals. All of us who call for the intervention of these vehicles shall, for the most part, count the seconds and we expect those drivers or crews in this vehicle to be on the target as soon as possible and to be as professional as possible. Not so long ago in the National Assembly, we passed a law on withdrawal from the lane, which we adopted with a large majority, but we still find that when we adopt something in the National Assembly, it takes quite some time for it to reach all users in traffic. When we touch on the proposal for changes to the law, which is now at the table of the National Assembly, we must also bear in mind all those people, the thousands of people who want to help us and are willing to help us every day when accidents happen, and the smaller ones, too. The existing law in Article 101 states that all drivers on this emergency journey do not in fact have to comply with the rules of road transport, but when a traffic accident occurs, all of them are responsible for it personally and also with their property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote today that this bill is suitable for further consideration. We are firmly convinced when we have examined it thoroughly that we will all complement it together, that it will be best when we vote for it in another reading. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want this law to be as good as possible, to those who save citizens and citizens daily, to those who help and to all road users. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues. We are all very sensitive when it comes to life-saving. With great care, we have therefore addressed the proposal of New Slovenia on amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act in the Parliamentary Group Marjan Šarca. We trust in the well-intentionedness of New Slovenia, we believe that in the practice of driving vehicles at interventions there are various situations and issues and we believe that the laws in force often seem illogical. However, the proposal to supplement the Government law does not support it, as the proposed exception already exists. He says: “The drivers of vehicles with the advantage, escorts and accompanying vehicles do not have to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, but they must drive in such a way and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and do not endanger other road users or their property.” What is the real practice, many statements by experts as well as rescuers, firefighters, police officers and others speak. Let me just give you a few. Janez Marolt, an AMZS instructor at the safe driving centre and a mountain rescuer: “Of course we need to drive with our heads on each intervention ride, because we do not have an absolute advantage, but we ask the drivers with signals for priority. We do not force, we must not do so, and this fact applies to all rescue workers on intervention trips." Then there is Primož Velinja, a rescuer from the Kočevje Health House: “On such emergency routes the rules of defensive driving certainly apply, but accidents are also part of this very risky service. This is all the more so for motorists who need to predict how they will get as safely as possible to the point where someone needs their help." And then a very strong statement by Andrej Fink of the Rescue Station Ljubljana: »Slovenian legislation is very similar in other countries. There's no license to kill. Some colleagues would want licenses like that, and that's not it. Driving the ambulance below is an urgent task, which also requires the driver to get to and from the patient safely.” The statements in practice already tell us that this topic must be approached very responsibly because it can have serious consequences. The law has further laid down principles that support this fact. Most importantly, ensuring transport safety is a universal norm that does not know the exceptions. However, only after assessing the circumstances and facts related to the individual accident do the authorities which issue the penalties enforce them. It is therefore necessary to see the whole picture and then assess the level of responsibility. We have deep respect for everyone on emergency trips also because we see their responsibility spreading. Not only is it a solution, but it is also important to have your own safety and, of course, the safety of others. However, it is important to consider further the role of all other actors in transport. For example, when we do not give priority to emergency vehicles, individuals abuse an intervention vehicle on the highway and follow it because it avoids crowding. Such cases of intentional and extremely inappropriate behaviour should be sanctioned, and more tolerance and attention should be given to traffic itself. Accidents would be much rarer if drivers and other participants devoted themselves only to traffic, but that is the individual’s decision. So now, on the one hand, we have a moral dilemma for someone who has risked his life to save the other and on the other hand, rules that protect intervention vehicles but do not give absolute immunity, but impose responsibility on everyone on the road. And this is an essential starting point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u137	Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Proposalers in New Slovenia would amend the rules applicable to drivers of vehicles with priority when they are on emergency driving. They suggest that drivers of vehicles with priority when on emergency orders and using special light and sound effects would not be punished for failing to comply with road traffic regulations and that these drivers are not obliged to comply with road traffic rules. In the SD Group of Members, we welcome the good intentions of the applicants, but we are aware that it is already valid that road users do not have to comply with road traffic rules. This applies both to professional drivers of vehicles with an advantage and to non-professional drivers of vehicles with an advantage such as voluntary firefighters. In 1992, Slovenia inherited the International Convention on Road Traffic, which provides in Article 101 that drivers of vehicles do not have to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, but must drive in such a way and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and that they do not endanger other road users or their property. The signatures of the said International Road Transport Convention are all EU members and other countries. Slovenia has the Road Traffic Rules Act, which is written on the basis and in accordance with the International Convention on Road Transport, which means that we have a similar legal regime, if not the same as all EU members. The SD Group welcomes the proposal's good intentions, but considers that possible problems that are clearly occurring in practice can be more successfully addressed by existing regulation and therefore there is no need for legislative change.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u139	With our proposal to amend the law, New Slovenia proposes that the driver of an emergency vehicle involved in a traffic accident not be fined for the offence. The proposal of colleagues is a result of a traffic accident which took place early in June of this year and in which an ambulance was involved. A higher fine should be imposed on the lifeguard, compared with the driver of the car, who did not give up the advantage on the same emergency driver. Undoubtedly, it is of utmost importance that firefighters, rescue workers and police officers arrive at the scene of the accident as soon as possible and contribute to this by giving them the advantage and freeway. When a traffic accident occurs, every second is important, and we need to be aware of this as part of the traffic at any moment. The point of view of the Modern Centre Party Group is that the emergency-driving solutions must definitely be aimed at reducing the time of disaster-damaged rescue, but in no way and in any case at the expense of the safety of the remaining drivers and pedestrians. Therefore, in the previous mandate, we supported the proposal of the law of a party colleague, which allowed for a more efficient, rapid and secure establishment of a lifeline for intervention vehicles on highways and fast roads in cases of congestion and halting. Since then, drivers have been allowed to withdraw to the seat belt in such cases and allow a sufficiently wide lifeline to be provided by this intervention vehicle. The law now in force provides that drivers of emergency vehicles do not have to comply with road traffic rules, but must not endanger other road users. The safety of all participants must be our common concern and we must all strive to reduce the worst consequences of traffic accidents. It is our responsibility to make this possible by adopting the relevant laws. Unfortunately, in the case of the law in question today, we cannot say so. The solution envisaged by colleagues raises more questions than answers. Of course, we can understand what the purpose is, but we doubt that such a change in marriage would bring about a positive outcome. In particular, the proposal introduces the full infringement immunity of the driver of all emergency vehicles. When we ask ourselves where such a change would lead us, we cannot go beyond the question of possible abuses. If we take only a very well-known example of Cranian police officers who, just one month after the aforementioned traffic accident during the night patrol, carried a minor while drinking and smoking. To the end, before she was brought home, the girl was also shown what an emergency police ride with a light on. Just imagine the negative consequences such a violation of immunity could have in case these police officers caused an accident. In the SMC, we do not want the proposed change in practice to prove inappropriate, even dangerous, so we cannot support the proposal. At this point, however, we would call on the Ministry of Infrastructure to really examine the possibility of determining a more appropriate fine for drivers who do not give up driving on an emergency.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present to us the views of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u141	Dear Madam Secretary of State Nina Mauhler! We have examined the Proposal for a Law on Complementing Road Traffic Rules and supplementing it provides that drivers of vehicles cannot be punished with priority for road traffic offences – this is an essential matter – if they are on an emergency journey, if they are in the exercise of orders to ensure order and peace, or if a police officer finds that a driver does not drive under the influence of alcohol and illicit drugs when verifying the psychophysical condition of the driver. What is added in the amendment of the law in the article on the application of radar tests has been in force so far. The problem is that the radar doesn't detect a fire vehicle, police or rescue vehicle, whether it's on an emergency ride or not. In the case of emergency vehicles, the driver shall also be punished and must then make a personal complaint, as is the case now. However, the purpose of the amendment is taken into account in the explanation of the article. I'd like to say this. However, I would like to point out, as my predecessors or speakers have also pointed out, that the amendment and addition of the law to all drivers of vehicles with the advantage and accompanying vehicles, on which specific light signals are used to perform certain emergency tasks, provides that they cannot be penalised as a result of violations of traffic rules and traffic signals. This means that drivers on an emergency trip outside the law, even when causing a traffic accident, cannot drive in such a way as to cause a traffic accident and that they are not at fault in the end or otherwise, saving lives is not a reason for endangering or even possibly taking someone else’s life. As far as the radar is concerned, as I mentioned earlier, which drivers carry on emergency rides. This is mainly a problem with paramedics, but it is not clear from the radar footage whether he was an emergency ambulance. The penalties are sent to the paramedics and they must then prove in individual procedures that they were on an emergency journey. It would be an acceptable solution for them to make excuses and prove that it was necessary to drive, in order to carry radar, to work administrative institutions from which they originate. It's called a health home, an ambulance or a hospital. However, it is certainly not the solution proposed by this law that drivers should not be punished even when causing a traffic accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present to us the views of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! We have often witnessed tragic fates for drivers of vehicles with advantage, such as paramedics, police officers, firefighters who, on an emergency ride, when saving human lives or property, cause a traffic accident and are therefore punished. The applicable road traffic rules law in Article 101 lays down vehicles with an advantage and accompanying vehicles as motor vehicles on which special lighting and sound signs are used to carry out certain emergency tasks. The fourth paragraph of that Article provides that vehicles with an advantage, accompanied vehicles and vehicles do not have to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, but they must drive in such a way and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and do not endanger other road users or their property. Advantaged vehicles used in emergency driving are ambulances, firefighters, civil protection and police officers, and intervention vehicles that save lives and property. We know that they count seconds and that the time of arrival at the scene of the accident is most crucial for the victims and ensuring the safety of all other road users. Therefore, that provision of Article 101, paragraph 4, gives these vehicles priority in transport, while other road users must consistently respect the signs of vehicles with advantages, sound and light. This means that they immediately give up their advantage safely. In the event of an emergency driving accident, the driver of the vehicle shall be liable with priority for a traffic offence and shall be punished for violating road traffic rules. In addition to the fine, he may be given penalty points, which means, in the extreme case, that he is threatened with a driver’s license and is no longer able to perform his service. In practice, therefore, there is a paradoxical situation. An emergency driver who saves human lives and is involved in a traffic accident is treated as a violator of road traffic regulations and is therefore severely punished. A driver who fails to comply with the provisions of Article 101 of the Law and does not allow an emergency vehicle to travel freely shall be punished only with a fine of 160 euros and three penalty points. It is therefore a matter of respect for the principles of the proportionality of the rule of law and, last but not least, of human and ethical values. We feel that there can be no one who saves lives, so we end up being punished. In the public, the accident continues to be very intense from the beginning of June of this year, when a rescuer on an emergency ride and a driver of a car hit the Slovenske and Vienna Roads in Ljubljana. The paramedic was on his way to the scene of another motorist's accident. With blue lights and siren, he brought him to a crossroads that he probably crossed through a red light, which the law in force also allows him to do. In the opposite direction, the other driver closed the path to the rescuer when he was turning left, apparently overlooking it. After the crash, the paramedic fell down and lay on the road with severe bodily injuries, and his recovery will be permanent. While it is not necessary for drivers of vehicles to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, they must drive in such a way and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and do not endanger others. However, the rules also apply to other road users as these vehicles have to give up the priority on emergency driving. After the rescuer's accident, he is threatened by a red light ride punishable by a fine of 250 euros and five penalty points, while those who do not give up the advantage get a fine of 160 euros and three penalty points. By supplementing the law, we want to ensure that drivers of vehicles with the advantage and vehicles to be accompanied by emergency driving would not be penalised for violations of traffic rules and traffic signals. In the proposal to supplement the law, we are primarily pursuing respect for the principle of proportionality and the rule of law. If the law allows preferred vehicles and accompanied vehicles not to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, they may not be penalised in the event of a traffic accident. In this case, there is also a violation of the principle of mutual compliance with the legal order. In the event of an accident where a sudden event does not have a direct effect on the driver, the law allows the driver to disregard traffic rules and traffic signals and, in the event of an accident in which he does not have a direct impact, he shall be punished for doing so. At the same time, it is also a common human and ethical question, for it cannot be punished by someone who saves lives. Complementing the law to all drivers of vehicles with the advantage and accompanying vehicles, where specific lighting and sound signs are used to carry out certain emergency tasks, implies that they will also not be penalised as a result of violations of traffic rules and traffic signals. This exception applies to emergency driving, which saves lives and property when it comes to carrying out urgent tasks and ensuring public safety and respect for the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, it is provided that drivers of vehicles on emergency driving shall not be subject to the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs and other psychoactive substances. In Novi Slovenija, we want to eliminate this completely non-life solution by supplementing that law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the views of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u145	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law that at first sight seems extremely simple. Only one who does not admire and appreciate the rescuers who risk their lives while saving other people's lives. And who could object to a change that would make matters easier for them. But a more detailed examination reveals that things are not that simple. For starters, we stop for a moment at the suggestion of the applicants that the driver of the vehicle is preferable if there is a traffic accident, responsible for a traffic offence and punished for violating road traffic rules. On the other hand, the driver of a vehicle which does not allow an emergency journey shall be punished only with a fine of € 160 and three penalty points. It just doesn't hold. A driver who has not withdrawn from the vehicle with the advantage is indeed given a lower fine, but this is only the starting amount. If the criminal authority considers that a person was actually responsible for the occurrence of a traffic accident due to immoderateness, it shall, in the light of the consequences of the accident, punish him with all the rest of the relevant fines. However, in the SAB Group, we agree with the proposaler that the fine should be higher. This is also the case because, in practice, it is too often that vehicles do not withdraw adequately from rescue vehicles. In view of the fact that the amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act have also been made by the competent ministry, we expect that this issue will be addressed appropriately. In the opinion of the SAB Group, the information provided by the applicant in the presentation of the regulation in other legal systems is problematic and partly misleading. In the case of Germany, for example, it explains that infringements of road traffic regulations are punishable, but there are exceptions to certain cases. Among them are the urgent situations in which people’s lives or property are saved. This is true, but Article 35 of the German Code makes it clear that these special rights can only be exercised in the light of public security, which is in fact the second phrase of our dictatorship, which allows drivers of vehicles with the advantage to disregard traffic rules and signalling, but at the same time prohibits driving in a way and at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time that they control the vehicle and do not endanger the lives or assets of other participants. The same applies to Austria. The applicant states that the driver is not obliged to comply with traffic rules and speed limits on emergency driving, but must not endanger the lives and health of people and property. Does not the same apply to the current Slovenian regime? Both in Austria and in the case of us, drivers on emergency driving must not endanger persons or damage things and can therefore drive by different rules than other participants and still have certain aspects of these rules. Similarly, a review of Croatian law can be found. This also implies that drivers are always obliged to take care of the safety of other road users on an emergency journey. And where do the similarities between arrangements come from? From one of the basic acts governing this area, this is an international convention on road transport. It has been ratified by all the current Member States of the European Union, and this obliges them to respect its provisions in a consistent manner. Article 7 of this Convention provides that all participants must avoid any act that would endanger or impede traffic, endanger human beings or cause harm to public and private property, without exception or derogations. When a traffic accident occurs, the criminal authority is obliged to carry out the infringement procedure. An important fact is that it is always obliged to do so by assessing all the facts and circumstances in which the offence was committed. That means the paramedic on the emergency drive isn't guilty but the Priory is not guilty. On the contrary. If it is found that he has been careful enough to drive and that the other driver should have noticed him, the criminal authority shall not issue a decision on the offence and, as a consequence, shall not issue and impose fines and by-laws. In the SAB Group, we have a great deal of respect for the work of all drivers who risk enormously, often even their lives, expose themselves and do their best for their fellow human being. That is why, as already mentioned, we expect the Ministry to address this area in the amendment to the law it is preparing. The law before us today, however, makes those arguments inappropriate for further consideration and we will vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present to us the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin by saying that in the Desus Group we are still undecided to support the proposal for the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act. What our vote will be, we will decide only after the debate is concluded. The fact is that this is an extremely attractive proposal for a novel taken by the applicant following a proposal written at the Chamber of Health and Grandmother Care of Slovenia, the Rescue Section and the rescue station UKC Ljubljana. This was caused by a traffic accident involving an emergency ambulance. At the time, this unfortunate paramedic was threatened with a traffic offence of EUR 250 and 5 penalty points. In the Desus Group, we agree with the initiators, that is, the rescue section, that something like this is unacceptable. A man who rushed to save his life found himself in a car accident, and in the end, he could get a high sentence. This is short and a little unheard of and unacceptable. However, in the Desus Group, we are still looking at every proposal for a new law with several aspects, not just from the point of view of citizens. That is why we have done the same thing in this novel, and this is why we are at the crossroads of how to vote on the appropriateness of the proposal for a novel for further consideration. The current regulation is such that the fourth paragraph of Article 101 of the Law on Road Traffic Rules provides that drivers of vehicles with an advantage, accompanied vehicles and vehicles do not have to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, but must drive in such a way and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and do not endanger other road users or their property. Where such a vehicle is involved in a traffic accident, the competent authorities shall, on an official basis, assess all circumstances in accordance with criminal law. Where an emergency driver has been careful enough to use sound and light signals and should be observed by other participants, the criminal authority shall decide not to issue a decision on the offence and shall not impose a fine. At the same time, the law also provides for penalties for those who do not depart on an emergency ride. At this point, I would like to appeal to the Ministry to consider raising penalties for such drivers, especially if this ignorance results in a traffic accident involving an emergency vehicle. At the same time, the statistics available show that drivers are almost never punished for the above reasons. It would only be punished if such a driver was under the influence of alcohol and other substances or used light and sound signals for the purposes of faster penetration through traffic. As I mentioned at the outset, we will decide in the Desus Group on the support for the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act after the discussion is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present to us the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u149	Good day to you all! We have before us a new law, which is short and simple, but at the same time very important. We live in a time where safe driving is supposed to be taught as much as possible. Because we know that the rescue vehicle is very stressful, and adrenaline, and in the case of engine rescue, the excitement is only escalating. Drivers who have long experience tell of a heart rate rising between 150 and 200 strokes. The latter in practice requires more self-control and concentration on the essential things that can happen to them in transport that are never predictable. The fourth paragraph of Article 101 provides that priority vehicles, accompanied vehicles and vehicles shall not be subject to traffic rules and traffic signals, but shall drive in such a way and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and do not endanger other road users or their property. Are you aware here that, despite intensive training, motorists are even more vulnerable to various bodily injuries than those in the ambulance? All of us were left with a terrible accident in early June. The fact is that the rules must also be followed by other road users, as these vehicles must give priority on emergency driving. However, a shameful and unacceptable act seems to us that after the rescuer's accident, the penalty for driving to a traffic light is 250 euros and gets 5 penalty points, while those who do not give up the advantage receive 160 euros in fines and only 3 penalty points. It does not seem human or human to punish a lifesaver who wanted to save a person who had seconds of life to risk his own life with a possible death, and in the end, you would punish him for a mole because of the red light. I wonder if the world is wrong. Is today’s mind puzzled with logic? Do you think it is in our young people's interest to decide on the lifeguard's profession if it is already clear in advance that they will be fined with high penalties that are not justifiable. A valid and justifiable reason is that if the driver were on an emergency drive under the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs and all sorts of other things, this would be another song. In our neighbouring Austria, a specific restriction applies in Article 3 of the rules on road transport, where the driver of an emergency vehicle must also pay particular attention to vulnerable road users. We are talking about children, blind and visually impaired, motionless and disabled. We agree unanimously that an emergency ambulance should be considered as an extenuating circumstance where the offence should not be punished. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we are therefore committed to complementing the Road Traffic Rules Act, which also follows the initiative of the Ljubljana Station Rescue Section. Let me also mention some other road users who are not concentrated before the traffic lights at the intersection. Most of them stare at smart phones, write different texts, and just wait for someone in the back to digest them, so they can hit the gas at as fast as they can. I would also appeal to traffic participants to pay particular attention when rescuers use blue lights. Let me also tell you that road safety is very outdated. The drivers are supposed to have a spare light in the cars, and now you tell me which modern cars can replace these lights. The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act will soon come to the table, where, among other news, penalties for the use of mobile phones are being raised. So when we drive, let's always be head and mind on the road and not on the phone or somewhere else. We will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because we believe that you must not be punished, previously praised and rewarded for empathetic work.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before that, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you all for your opinions first. We are not offended if the coalition has decided in part not to listen to the law, or, rather, not to listen to the non-life provisions that today apply to rescue workers. It is very important, but I will use very kind words, as almost always, that the Government has reported not one minute, so now I can only wait for the esteemed Secretary of State to show non-verbal communication that the law is okay. He can't because he doesn't have a minute. The LMŠ delegation said in its position that the Government does not support the law. Mr Vice President, I have a problem here and I ask that you provide this opinion to the Government. If I'm a national, I can't find that opinion. The coalition has meetings and they're talking about supporting something that they can't support. But this must be known to the Slovenian public, why the Government does not support this law or may support it. Is there anything I missed, I'm asking the experts to re-examine whether we have the government's position or not? But if we don't have it, then the government has accepted it and then I expect by the biggest government party an apology for deceiving the public. You can ignore the opposition, colleagues and colleagues, the government can ignore the opposition, and I have no problem with that. But you can't ignore rescue workers on an emergency ride that saves people's lives and property. You can't and you can't because it's not moral. One more thing. We wrote the law ourselves. We wrote it ourselves, Comrade Hršak, did not write this marriage by someone else. I am grateful for your opinion that you will decide in the course of the debate on support or non-support, which is, lastly, correct to face all arguments for et contra to this law. We wrote the law ourselves. It is true, unfortunately, that a traffic accident took place, something some colleagues mentioned, a serious accident in Ljubljana in early June. After this accident, rescuer Dusan Šisko, as he said, is facing a penalty for driving to a traffic light at a red light of 250 euros and 5 penalty points. So the lifeguard, 250 euros and 5 penalty points. However, those who have not given up the advantage earn only EUR 160 and only 3 points. You say it's normal, it's life. Not according to our estimate. The paramedic is more punished than the one who doesn't give the lifeguard the benefit of the doubt. Yeah, we didn't make up these numbers. We have worked hard on this, I tell you, and at the time of the holidays and the occasion of the marriage, the initiative that I gave at the outset in the role of the proposer was an initiative. So he wrote us the University Clinical Center Ljubljana, Rescue Station, Medical and Nana Care Chamber Slovenia, Medical Rescue Section. The letter was written on 17 June, shortly after the earlier incident in Ljubljana. Nineteen came to the National Assembly. 6. The next day we tabled the marriage because we actually started preparing it immediately after this terrible accident and when we discovered, of course, through the media, it is thanks to you that we have here non-lifely marriage solutions that need to be resolved. I am disappointed, once again, that the Government has not reported a single minute to at least say that what we are saving with this law, that it will bring an identical or, hopefully, better solution to the government in the National Assembly and when. Some of you mentioned, the law is being prepared, I don't know which one, the road safety or the one we're supplementing right now. We don't know that in the opposition, and we're probably not even worth getting this information from the government. And I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, a respected government, that's not right. This is not a correctional attitude towards the opposition, which is trying to solve the non-life solutions we have adopted today with two articles or with one substantive article. On August 22, 2019, we organized a meeting at the premises of our parliamentary group, where we invited representatives of the general police office and also representatives of the rescue station Ljubljana. The UKC Ljubljana Pier was also present. I don't know if I can tell you the names or not, I never know what that's like with personal data. If you are interested, here is the minutes of this meeting and also the conclusions of the meeting, 9 conclusions. Let me fly them for a while. “In the event of an accident of a vehicle with an advantage or an emergency vehicle, the driver may be fined and the penalty imposed on the driver of the penalty points may be imposed for violating the Road Traffic Rules Act, such as unadapted speed, driving through the red light. Article 101 of the Road Traffic Rules Act does not, however, provide for specific penalties for offences committed by vehicles on an emergency basis. According to the applicable legislation on guilt, a police officer dealing with a traffic accident, we have a report, a record of a sighting of a traffic accident. Each individual may lodge a request for judicial protection against the report and the payment order. A request may be decided by a criminal authority or tribunal. Each participant shall have the possibility of enforcing judicial protection against the decision of the criminal authority.” The problem is that often the criminal authority imposes a penalty on an emergency driver, including the penalty points. However, drivers on an emergency journey must then seek judicial protection so that the court can assess all circumstances of a traffic accident. In practice, most of the proceedings in the courts are then stopped, but for the driver on an emergency ride this is burdensome, judicial proceedings, uncertainty, you were in court and so on. Is that right? That's not right. Our aim should be to minimise requests for judicial protection and to put an end to criminal proceedings against drivers of vehicles on an emergency basis in the first phase. The proposal by the group I previously appointed is: Traffic accidents on emergency driving should be divided into those in which only material damage occurred and those in which bodily harm occurred. For material-injury accidents, criminal proceedings would be stopped immediately and for other traffic accidents in accordance with the criminal code. The police submit a report on the accident to the prosecution, which, according to the facts and circumstances, may proceed with the conduct of the proceedings. Next conclusion: It is necessary to listen to the demands of paramedics, firefighters and the police as well as to ensure that drivers are not subject to mandatory driving penalties and penalties and that their material and criminal liability remain. The offence of causing a traffic accident would be found as this is important for the participants of the accident and the payment of their claims for compensation. This is where I'm thinking of the insurance company. The representative of the Rescue Station Ljubljana warned that at the Rescue Station Ljubljana they are seriously considering the adoption of an internal regulation allowing rescue workers on emergency trips to exceed the maximum speed allowed by a maximum of 20%. Now the question is whether they can achieve this with their own rules of procedure. For road traffic rules we have a law that we are supplementing right now, which means that the lifeguard could go through Ljubljana, most of which is a limit of 60 kilometers per hour, can drive 72 kilometers per hour. The following conclusion: Check if it is possible to simplify the handling of accidents so that the police can only issue an official note or simplified report on accidents involving vehicles on an emergency journey. Another conclusion: The police have also pointed out the unreasonable bureaucratic procedures that the police must conduct and make it very difficult to deal with the perpetrators of the offences. In all European countries, traffic accidents are also dealt with by courts and not by police. I now hope and wish that the government will take all this into account in this announced legislative change to listen to the paramedics, to listen to the police as well as to the firefighters. Colleagues and colleagues, the key question is, and it is normal for Members to want to change the law when we see that it does not work as we think it does. The Minister of Justice said she was already changing insolvency legislation due to the Jankovic case and 29 million, she went straight into action. Thank you, but too late. The opposition New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we went to amend the legislation because of the initiative of the above-mentioned very important entities, if I may say so, organisations, chambers, clinical centres, rescue stations, the Medical Rescue Section and on the basis of what we read about this accident in early June, and non-life, colleagues and colleagues, the inanimate treatment of this rescuer who has injured himself and will now, according to the household, forgive such and otherwise. And then, don't let God happen to you that in one time period, in one year, you get so many and so many penalty points in six months and you're at work. And now I wonder who else will be the lifeguard. Will one of the Members, when he may not be elected and I do not want to, decide for him to be a lifeguard when he knows what awaits him? Now that he has a chance to fix it, don't fix it. I really regret, I can also understand that the opposition party's ignorance by the government, but I don't mind that it's an eccentric ignorance to the paramedics, that the government here in this arena doesn't say a word about rescue workers in this ring, but it's outrageous and unacceptable. I regret and apologize on behalf of the Government, even though I'm not part of it and I don't want to be part of that government. Thanks for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Answer your questions first, Member. According to the information we have, the Government has not given an opinion on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act. At least we didn't get it in the National Assembly. The second point I want to tell you here is Article 116(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the Government may give an opinion on a proposal for a law. Here you go, Mr. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u153	Mr Vice President, thank you for explaining this to the Slovenian public. I know that too, but it has been said by the largest government party that the Government does not support this law, which means that the Government has considered this proposal of our law at its meeting. How else can he take a stand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The debate of Members is next. The word is Blaž Pavlin, to be prepared by Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, chairman. Members of New Slovenia have tabled a proposal for amendments to Article 101 of the Road Traffic Rules Act following a resounding accident by a lifeguard with a vehicle. By amending that Article, which regulates emergency driving, the article would be amended by explicitly stating that drivers of vehicles with the advantage and accompanying vehicles cannot be punished for violating traffic regulations and signalling when they are on an emergency journey to save people's lives and property. This is not explicitly written in the law in force. An emergency driver may now, when an accident occurs, be responsible for a traffic offence and then be punished for violating road traffic rules. In addition to the above-mentioned penalty, he may also be punished for an offence, which, in the extreme case referred to earlier today, may mean that he is deprived of his driver’s license and, as a result, is unable to perform his job as a result of the withdrawal of his driver’s licence, so he may lose his job as well. Maybe a little thinking about how it's gonna be in the future. Probably once in the future, we will not have any problems in this regard, because by introducing better digitisation and smart cities, when we have central smart traffic hubs that will give vehicles the advantage of driving – at least that's how I imagine – automatically light the green light on the traffic light, there will be no more accidents with driving into the red light. Until then, I believe that we need to amend the law we are proposing in New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you. The word is Edward Paulic. Get ready to call Blackbell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. The Law currently in force on road traffic rules in Article 101 provides for priority vehicles, escort vehicles and accompanied vehicles not to take into account traffic rules and traffic signals, but they must drive in such a way and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and do not endanger other road users or their property. The Republic of Slovenia is a signatory to the International Convention on Road Traffic, which provides, inter alia, that every road traffic participant is expected to detect and adjust his or her behaviour in a timely manner. The Convention also requires equal treatment of all road users before the law. Following the proposal of New Slovenia, which we are talking about today, an apriorous misdemeanour is proposed for emergency driving vehicles, which is not in accordance with the Convention. Let me also mention that all the signatory countries already have an arrangement similar to that of the Republic of Slovenia. As of today, when dealing with a traffic accident, the criminal authority shall identify all the facts and circumstances arising from the offence in question. In the event that the driver was careful enough on the emergency journey and should have been observed by the other driver, the decision on the offence shall not be issued, no fine shall be issued and no penalty point shall be issued. In my opinion, the New Slovenia proposal would not help to make vehicles more efficient and safer on emergency driving, which should be our purpose. If anything, it may help to increase the fine for drivers who do not take into account the advantages of driving on an emergency basis. This fine is currently € 160, and for this very purpose a proposal has been made to the competent ministry to consider any increase in the fines in question. Finally, allow me to read a statement from one of the experts in this field, who wrote, quote: “A rescue vehicle is an urgent task, which also requires the driver to reach the patient safely and back safely.”I would like to point out that it is safe to reach the patient and back. “If our legislation were to be such that vehicles would have an absolute advantage in driving without the driver taking any responsibility, these events, even tragic ones, would certainly be more.” In the light of the proposal made by New Slovenia, I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. He has the word Zvonko Černač, to prepare Janja Služa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u159	I have to say that we can all be amazed at what Charc's coalition is saying here today. It's one of the things that I should be working on with the novel after it was found that the law didn't work. We read in the media in June: “The ambulance on an emergency ride carried red, so he will be punished.” We read: "It is not yet clear whether a rescuer who is in a hurry to help an unfortunate motorist on Wednesday will be punished only for disregarding the red light, which amounts to 300 euros and 5 penalty points, or the penalty for causing a traffic accident, for which 200 euros and 5 penalty points are at risk." It is quite unusual, however, that he may receive a higher sentence than that of a driver who has not given up his advantage, for that is the risk of a fine of 160 euros and 3 penalty points. The coalition's thinking is going this way, yeah, it's an inappropriate matter, so we need to raise that second penalty. It's totally wrong thinking. This is something similar to the time before the construction inspector issued the decision to demolish the newly installed dock in Mlinem near Bled on 15 August, because the previous wood was permanent and dangerous to tourists and people and posed a general threat. When I asked a question to the competent minister, when this madness would stop and when it would be settled, because for centuries the port had been there and it did not need any building permit to regulate, then I gave an example that we were doing significantly greater infrastructure interventions in this country without building permits, the minister replied: “Yes, yes, yes, it is. For those we will now think about, it is called Rondoje and everything else that we are doing now without building permits, we will introduce building permits." It's totally wrong thinking. Just like it was wrong in this case. Your position in this case, when you do not want to make an amendment that is obviously harmful and bad and does not mean any increase in traffic safety because of what it is, goes in the opposite direction. In fact, you will cause only that in the future, those who are on an emergency ride will be even more careful and thus can put out some more life. Because whoever needs help won't get it in time. Remember a propaganda film years ago that showed how due to a busy highway rescuer can’t get to the crash in time and the heartbeat or heartbeat has ceased to be slow. After that, there was a civil initiative by one of the firefighters, I think from Logatz. The former Minister, Mr Gasperšič, has followed this initiative and has legislated the Central Belt. For a long time, nothing could be done. “It’s impossible, it can’t be done,” you said. Then there was someone who realized that it was also possible for people to understand and it was legal. Something like this is now with this novel, where I have to say that I personally don't understand it. You're quoting the 101st article of the law, and you're saying it's already been arranged. Yeah, of course it is, but apparently every operative, reads it, reads it his own way. Since the law says: “Vehicles with advantage, escort and accompanying vehicles do not have to comply with traffic rules” – we are talking about this ambulance being punished because it carried a red light – “and traffic signals, but they must drive in such a way and at such speed that they control the vehicle all the time and do not endanger other road users or their property.” For me, this article is clear, but obviously not for those who practice it. And if it is not clear to those who carry it out, it must be written in such a way that this article is clear. I'm not interested in those who monitor officials. Even if they miss a minister or Putin's, for example, because his delays are a constant, after three or more hours, he has to wait. But I'm being thrashed by people who save people's lives, rescuers and firefighters, and it's a matter of making it possible to do normal work. If we look at the statistics of the last 10, 15, 20 years, you can find that these cases are very few. Of course, accidents like this happen. Accidents involving those who rush to help the unfortunate and who save lives. Thank God there are few of them, but once they are punished for it, legal certainty in this work will not be any better and nothing greater. I quote a statement by the head of the Ljubljana Rescue Station saying: “Sometimes we may miss someone at a certain rate, but sometimes someone overlooks us, but the punishment that is of foreign importance is absolutely unnecessary, but we do not run away from compensation.” They don't run away from compensation, and that's the point. Of course, accidents happen. But to punish people who in such or other circumstances, I am confident in 99.9% of the cases not on their own account, because they are trained people who know what they are doing and drive carefully even when driving through the red light, in such cases punishing these people, but it is completely contrary to some common sense and completely far from some principles that the law of penalysis is supposed to pursue. And not only in this area that there will be no misunderstanding. Last time I talked to someone who travels a lot, in Italy, Austria, and on the highway happens very quickly 5 or 10 kilometers over the limit. And since he travels a lot, we get fines. The lowest penalties, as far as this is concerned, I speak for minor offences, are in the Republic of Austria, then in Italy, but they are enormously high with us, even though they have been reduced in the past. And now we're talking about how they're going to increase in a certain segment. I don't know if this will really contribute to improving traffic safety. Improving traffic safety on Slovenian motorways will help to ensure that these motorways are no longer standing as they are today. This will improve transport safety. Because right now the biggest traffic hazard and most accidents are caused by congestion. This reduces speed from 130 to 100 or 80. It's these situations that mean bumps. And look at the statistics, most accidents are caused by this, not by other circumstances. Instead of thinking in this direction to ensure the best possible and the greatest possible flow of highways, which now, unfortunately God, are no longer, this is going in the opposite direction. Similarly, when an event occurs and the consequences do not come to an end within a reasonable period of time, since the logistics of remedying the consequences does not work, other events on the same route will occur as a result of this event. Last time, let's say, when there was a run-in on the highlands and there was a long column of standing vehicles from Vrhnika to Ravbarkomanda, there was a second accident due to this first one, not because of other circumstances. But the thinking of power goes in the wrong direction. More penitentialization, more punishments and so on. And there's something similar in this case. The applicant said in the introduction, the general debate, that we can further improve the provisions. I don't know what needs to be discussed and improved here. It is only about whether you agree that people who help save human lives and where the decisive seconds are, let us allow this work to be done in the future smoothly, or whether you are against it. By your decision you've made, you're against it. All those who realize that a few kilometers of speed can be punished will be much more cautious in future vehicles. Perhaps one of them will even wait to show up at the traffic light with a green light so that he will not be in trouble because he was carrying a red light on an emergency ride. It's your thinking, I'm sorry, and I don't understand it. It is still time for you to reconsider and this law, or this novel, to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. When I was preparing for this debate, I, as always, turned to those people who are familiar with these things for an opinion. In this particular case, I've turned to traffic police, firefighters, people working at an information center, and they have a very broad view of what's going on. They told me, of course we'll tell you what we think, but we don't know how you're gonna say it. Why? Because the proposal is so populism. Because it is really hard to discuss when it comes to such a proposal and when the debates of the predecessors see this populism and this deception. If this deception is intentional or unintentional, I will not judge it. But it's really hard. I said, you just tell me what you think, and I'll tell you what I think. And, yes, maybe someone will think we're up against the paramedics now, as explained by Comrade Cernač. The opposition always takes this right to explain what the coalition thinks when it presses a certain button on the voting device. But this time it's not like that. Let me first read what the applicant has stated as a reason for the proposed amendments. I quote: "The proposaler considers the current situation to be paradoxical, since the driver is an emergency driver who saves people's lives and is involved in a traffic accident, is treated as a breach of road traffic regulations and is also punished for this." It's not. It's not. I'm the one who took a look at the statistics, and I realized that's not the case. In particular, no such accident occurred in Celje where the driver would be punished on an emergency ride. Yes, a procedure is introduced, and then in each procedure, it is checked what the circumstances were, what happened. No one has ever been punished for an event like this. He wasn't. Now you're saying we're referring to marriage. Of course we refer to marriage. Article 101, paragraph 4, is not required to comply with the rules. However, it is true that an automatic procedure is introduced for infringement. But like I said, then it's checking out the circumstances. Earlier in some presentations, the views of the parliamentary groups have been expressed on what to do in the case, but I do not say now that this is the case if the driver is on an emergency journey under the influence of prohibited substances. At this point, I think the case is properly settled for this very reason. I'll give you the case. In Celje, it's an emergency ride because it was a bank robbery at the mall. Four emergency police officers drive in one passenger car along the busiest road. They come to a semothed intersection, a complicated semphorized intersection, because it's a two-passenger in every direction. Because of the crowd on the road, they first carry the red light and then find that they cannot turn and continue the route along the two lanes which are intended to move towards where they are going. They roll onto the opposite lane, on a two-lane road. They avoid the first car, they avoid the second car, they don't avoid the third car. Frontal run. Frontal run. It damaged all four police officers and the driver of the vehicle in which they crashed. No one's been punished. Nobody. So talking about how they're being punished is really not right. Individual consequences need to be assessed, and the consequences need to be distinguished. In certain cases, the case is treated as an offence and the facts are identified; in certain cases, this is even a case before a court. But in each particular case, the facts are identified. And it is also determined whether the driver was on an emergency ride or not, what all the other circumstances of the event were. So don't deceive them into being punished. They're not. They're not. However, I can agree that it can be burdensome, where stationary radars are located and it is necessary to complain at each stand, so to speak, that there is no punishment. And he's not coming. However, there is a need to complain. Oh, I'm sorry. I don't like it when only one side listens. I've read everything you've written down, why you so decided who suggested it. But it is always necessary to ask the other side and ask what this will mean, to put on the scale of things, what this will mean for all the other players in traffic. I, in particular, arrived at this accident in June when I went to work, and I saw what happened. It is always necessary to keep in mind the safety of one who is on an emergency journey. Is he going to be without any brakes now because he's stressed out because this ride is dangerous because he wants to come the first second, when possible, to a place where he'll intervene, where he'll help someone else, or he'll be safe on this ride. Will someone on this ride be safe who saves his life and lies in a ambulance? As we said earlier, and it was presented in the position of the LMŠ Group, I think they are asking for an advantage with light signals. And this advantage depends on all the other participants. Of all of them. It is always necessary to keep in mind that there may be someone who does not see, who is not paying attention, who, as it was said, is gray inside the cell phone. And that's exactly why this little reserve that those paramedics are using to go to the intersection is absolutely necessary. That little reserve that he's still a little more careful about, that he still thinks something might happen. Because with this he looks after himself, and at the end of the day, if he goes without hindrance, without any restrictions, into the red light, into the intersection, and something happens to him, the one he needs there will not wait for him when he should. When you consider all of this, I think that the solution you are proposing, as we said in the position of the Group of Members, raises even more open questions, to which there are no answers. We therefore believe that the current regime is appropriate. However, it is certainly necessary to assess the proportionality of the penalties that have already been imposed today. Not necessarily by raising one, you can reduce the other, anyway. The proportionality or appropriateness that a person who is on an emergency journey shall be punished for the person who does not withdraw on an emergency ride shall be the same as it is. And here we appeal to one judgment in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u163	Ambassador Janja Sluga said that anyone who gets caught in the stationary work, that is, a paramedic on an emergency ride and drives too fast, this radar catches him, then sends him a punishment, he has to complain. You support a solution whereby rescuers who are on an emergency journey and therefore exceed the speed allowed are sent out of commission for speeding and support that this solution is in order and that those who receive or receive such penalties must complain. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'd like to ask you to warn your colleague. I have already said in my debate that I do not allow the opposition to explain what I mean when I say something. I certainly didn't say that, I don't support something that the gentleman just made up. So I'm asking you to warn him.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u167	First of all, I expect you to remind the Member of Parliament that he is abusing the procedural proposal. And I suggest you take a five-minute break so we can get a magnetogram and see if Ambassador Janja the Servant has said what I said. In fact, she said: “Anyone caught by a stationary radar must therefore complain. And if he catches a paramedic on an emergency ride, because of this he has driven too fast, an emergency ambulance must complain.” Please, are we crazy or what?Oh, my God! The last time is for us to stop this debate and for the Government to change its mind because it has obviously not accepted it so far – we have previously listened to a lie from a coalition member of the LMŠ that the Government has adopted an opinion on this law – and to settle this matter according to some normal farming logic and to stop dealing with things that should be perfectly sound to everyone. Those who do these things should be allowed to work normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. Your replica wasn't really a replica. You didn't say you were misunderstood. When you had a replica of the previous presentation, that's what this is about, so I suggest we move on. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare for Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u169	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! When we speak from these parliamentary benches that something is properly arranged, this may seem true to many. But how many from here in this hall have ever been drivers on an emergency drive? We're talking firefighters, we're talking ambulances, we're talking cops. It seems incorrect to me that so casually some Members and Members of Parliament are discussing and saying that this legal matter is appropriate, nothing is wrong. But if those who meet with these things daily warn that the matter is not right. In particular, the case of Janez Kramar, head of the Ljubljana Rescue Station, says: “The law says that if you drive in red, for example, you have to be careful enough that nobody thinks anything. But if you do, you're automatically guilty, you pay a few hundred euros in fines and you get the penalty points. I don't think this automation should be. The mitigating circumstances of each case should also be taken into account. It is really hard to work under such pressure every day. You can also have 10 emergency trips a day in fear of being blamed for something.” That's what a man who deals with these things every day says. But some Members still say that this case and this area is properly regulated, and when the New Slovenia Group comes with a proposal that responds to the specific needs that have occurred in society, we are referred to as populists that there is a populist proposal and similar things. I think when you run out of arguments, when you run out of some serious serious arguments, then it's always at the hand of the argument you're populism, you're saying what you like. But we talk and do what people need to do for normal work. If we go even further into the details, it has been said several times in the debate here today, if we leave this, this is now an opposition proposal, and it will still settle all these things as a system law. It's the standard mantra of the government coalition. One more thing. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, a comprehensive proposal was recently sent to the Interresor Coordination for the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act, which does not touch the rules of emergency driving. The fact that these urgent driving matters will be regulated by a system law is likely to fall under that heading, as was said today, that the Government has drawn up an opinion on this matter. What's the problem? The problem is red tape. This proposal of ours is trying to debirocratize pointless procedures. Drivers on an emergency journey shall not flee from material and criminal liability. It is clear that if an accident has occurred, someone is responsible for this accident already after this salary, who will now be responsible for this damage. This is already necessary for insurance companies and for covering the costs of damage to be determined by a culprit. That is why I say that even after the conversations we have had with these people who are driving on emergency trips, they do not run away from material and criminal responsibility. But they want to debirocratize this procedure so that when you have an emergency driving accident, you automatically go to some court-martialed judge's office or drive carefully enough. I believe that anyone who drives an emergency rides on the border, on the edge, because he always wants to get to the scene as soon as possible. And even though, as some of you have discussed, there were not many penalty points and fines imposed on drivers on emergency driving, what these drivers are pointing out to be most burdensome are these constant judicial proceedings. Constant court proceedings. One of the smart suggestions they make is that we simply share in such disasters accidents that have only material damage and those where there has also been some physical injury. If only accidents had been excluded from all these proceedings, thank God, we would have taken a big step forward. We can talk hours and hours here, but we probably won't move the coalition. It is a shame, however, that sometimes in this House, a healthy farmer's mind cannot prevail, some normality, that if it is a marriage proposal that only facilitates a life and has no disastrous financial implications for a country, then should not be counted as coalition and opposition species, but should simply be accepted as an autonomous branch of power, as parliamentarians, to gather so much courage and laws that are for the benefit of society and people. It is clear that I will support this marriage, and I can only hope that most will.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word to prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u171	Dear Members, Members, President, thank you very much for your words! Before us today, one such interesting proposal, namely to supplement the law, which would allow all drivers of intervention vehicles, paramedics, police officers and everyone else to carry out their work even faster and with less fear than they are doing now. We know that these drivers are always going to work, and what's going to happen at work today, whether I can drive or not, whether I'm going to commit a crime or not, or whether I'm going to be punished, or I'm going to get there in time. We need to be aware that this work is very responsible and very stressful, so with this proposal, which is before us today, we could allow them to go more relaxed at work, which means that they might also drive more safely. It saddens me, too, that there is no government opinion. I didn't hear him. However, we have heard from the LMŠ Group that the Government is against such a proposal. However, I will not say anything because I do not know, but it seems to me that, given that the coalition is quite cohesive in this proposal, that such an opinion may actually have been adopted or such an opinion has been adopted. I don't know. I think that all of us Members and Members should adopt such a supplement to this law, confirm, because this would pose no threat to transport security because there are no financial consequences. If we think for a moment that, in fact, we're all actually meeting these paramedics every day. Literally every citizen and citizen can be subjected to the actions of these people, who work as stuntmen on these very bad roads, poor infrastructure and rather poorly managed other transport infrastructures, such as semoforised crossings, where there are no green waves, the circles are quite broken, with drivers repeatedly violating road traffic regulations, unpicked in the car, using the phone, listening to loud music in the car, having headphones on their ears and so on. Times are changing a lot, and I think it's even more difficult for drivers who drive these intervention vehicles with an advantage. The problem I see is what the Slovenian Democratic Party has already proposed in 2017 for firefighters, both professional and, above all, voluntary, to intervene in order to reach the firehouse. You probably all know these guys and the girls who go from home, drive on the road. They fire up all four directions and line up. Everything falls out of his hands, and it goes because it goes to save people, to save lives. And he has to go, and he's going fast. And we all know, yeah, now it's going, I don't know, Chebin's Jure to intervene. We all know it's going, and we appreciate it, we respect it. However, we do not allow one small correction in the law, but it would cost nothing to enable these drivers to stop being punished, not to pay penalties for radars and higher fines than those who miss the ambulance, but have a lower fine and fewer penalty points than the driver of the intervention vehicle, which is truly catastrophic. And also that they must then complain about the radar and so on, as we had previously listened to the duel between our Member and the Member of Parliament. These are things that really should be supported by everyone. We all see ambulances driving along the road, working their way through Ljubljana, when it's all over, it's all there. Where are you going? You drive to the bank, you retreat as you can. But there could also be a car accident. Otherwise, there are very few traffic accidents. I have looked on the side of the Transport Safety Agency, which, among other things, has not given any opinion on this, and there is one main institution that should be defined up to such a proposal. These accidents with drivers of intervention vehicles are relatively few or very few. But those who are can also be very tragic and very cruel. That's why we're here to make sure these people don't get punished. Of course, if they're not under the influence of alcohol, psychoactive substances, illicit drugs and so on. If they're sober, if they're assembled, if they're going into action for life, for our security, for the legal protection of the state, and I don't know what we have, let's give these people the opportunity. This is already questionable when we have all vehicles mixed in with advantage, paramedics, firefighters, vehicles with advantage, vehicles with escorts, vehicles with escorts and so on. For example, for me, a rescue vehicle or a fire vehicle is the most important one. Much more than that escort vehicle, which, for example, is accompanied by a delegation of some important people who before that take them all off the road, close an hour earlier and then drive on an empty road. Maybe it's a lot easier there than it is for one firefighter, or a lifeguard, because at that point he has to face difficult road conditions. Let's not forget the storms, the snow, the rain, the cold. Not just to think it's summer and palm trees. There's more to it than that. I think that we should all come together and support this in this first reading that we have today and then, if we have to, make any other changes or go to the hands of those people who have asked for it. That's what the paramedics asked, and I think it's right that we all get our heads together here and let them have better conditions for their work. In the end, I would like to say just one more case when the fireman leaves home, when he gets a call, when he has to go to the firehouse quickly, and there's a column on the road, it's all standing up, he's got to hurry. Then there are lights, a vehicle with escorts, and there is one or two sitting in a nice car, because he is in a hurry to meet or have dinner. A fireman who goes to save his life will stand by the road and wait, and they'll drive by. It's confused with all the wisdom and logic. In this regard, there are still many things that we should consider and act quickly. What we proposed in 2017 for the blue lights for firefighters to go quickly said the ministry or government needed time to think. It is 2019, two years have passed, the time for reflection could have expired. So much for me, I won't be stealing too much time from everyone else. I'll be happy to support this addition, and I hope everyone else will, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I too have prepared for today's debate on how to begin. And I will begin in the sense that the Slovenians will be happy in 30 years, 3 months, 8 days, 1 hour, 19 minutes. But the seconds are counting. Of course, I am talking about the project of the previous government Vision of Slovenia 2050 – how everything will be nice and happy people will live in Slovenia. But where's the sub-measure, what's the execution? Nothing from then on until today. When we want to bring to New Slovenia that society will develop, and yet we can help those who really need help at the most critical times, the government will simply stop at the place where February 2017 promised to happen – that we will live happy people in Slovenia. I don't know where this 88-page long and half-million-euro research has been going on, whether it's going to work, or whether it's going to lie in the drawer, you're going to tell the government MPs, but it seems to me that we should be working on getting to some smart Slovenia, anyway, smart in some reasonable, normal laws or in some up-to-date smart digitisation that we've been talking about here today, how the whole infrastructure in Slovenia should work. I also have experience with infrastructure, pleasant and even less pleasant, but especially for me it is personally unreasonable that you do not take into account certain proposals of New Slovenia. You know, when a year and a half ago the law on classification on motorways was passed, it was proposed by Nova Slovenija. Indeed, it was proposed by the logistic firefighters, and Nova Slovenija had the only hearing that something needed to be moved here. Thus, in today’s New Slovenia Law, it is clear that those who save our lives need to be allowed to do good and that, because of saving one life, they will not be able to bring themselves into some awkward situation for which they will be punished. Well, it doesn't look like it. And let me touch this up-to-date society myself, which should already be. What did we do when we suggested in New Slovenia that we should use light signals to warn that there is a vehicle opposite the highway? Did we do something? New Slovenia said that we have the opportunity to digitally equip all the entrances and boards that are on the road to remind us that there is a vehicle opposite our belt. We still can't do that. We say, no, no, we don't need it, we get good news through radio waves. How many people are listening? How many people have their radios turned off, and how do people know about this event? When we talked about how to draw attention to the sudden appearance of fog with some digital lights along the highway, there was also no hearing to solve it. But we say, no, no, we have good road signs. In the fog guests we also had cases on Slovenian roads, when those markings did not help. I find that simply to improve traffic safety, for the greater safety of all of us involved in road traffic is simply not listening, you are not listening. The proposal before you today is simple and allows people to do this work because in some ways I take their work as humane, they can also do this human work. And I hear the argument that it's not that big. Of course, there's not much out of Ljubljana. Most traffic lights, most of them happen in Ljubljana, which is not so far away from being digitised that it can change traffic signals with one button. They say, yes, but what if the driver is under the influence of alcohol? I also notice that despite your digital devices, you do not read the law to the end. Because there you would see that it is specifically determined in which case the rules laid down in the law are not respected. That the driver of the emergency vehicle must not be influenced by alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs and other psychoactive substances. So we've got a security guard, we've got a security guard. Still, nothing changes. That is why it is time that in this Slovenia it will be a little shorter, and I hope that you will go to this game with this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Get ready for Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't mean to discuss it, but I was just challenged because this debate in this house is always turning into one and the other. White and black, I don't know, I won't pick colors. We all know at the cabin, the truth is always gray. She's never black and white. Andrej Fink, quoted earlier, from the Ljubljana Rescue Station, says: “Because in the past some ambulance drivers have also received extremely high pigeons, they have introduced a house policy at the Ljubljana Rescue Station, that drivers are also on a defensive basis on emergency driving and that they exceed the permitted speed by no more than 30%.” But they also observe deviations, as the example states, “that the driver on an emergency ride in a village where the speed limit is 50 kilometers per hour is also 130 or 150 kilometers per hour. And that excuses the state of emergency. This is a suicide act and it must not happen, regardless of who is waiting for us.” Of course, deviations are always present. We're not talking about a whole lot of lifeguards, firefighters, cops and all those who sacrifice their lives to help us when we need this help. But I'm just repeating after you. That's right. Let's go with some banalization of problems, just to reinforce our right. And I'm very sorry. Your proposal for a law states that there is something wrong with this matter. But the concept of rescue is wrong. Not one article, two articles, one line that could be corrected. The concept is wrong. I heard earlier that the most common causes of traffic accidents are roadblocks. What are we, funny? Stop means someone's standing. What about alcohol, excessive speed, telephone calls, loss of attention? We'll ignore all of this. Anyone holding the wheel in hand is responsible for the traffic. Whether it's a lifeguard or a police officer or me. And if everyone behaved responsibly on the road, today they would not even talk about this matter because everyone would notice a vehicle on an emergency ride, and they would withdraw and be able to safely pass. But unfortunately, that's not who we are. It's our fault. And today's calls from this side, let's please let this law go through the first reading, then we'll continue to correct it. Yes, but we do know or this house is known for adopting very good laws all the time. That's why we are where we are today, and we have tens of thousands of laws that then fight each other. In the end, one poor person who saves lives gets a sentence, and that's not right, but that's not right either. I trust my colleagues and colleagues who have told me that if anyone gets a sentence, he complains about it and there is no punishment. All the circumstances are being judged, everything is being judged, and these penalties are not enough to become a systemic problem all of a sudden. Because we don't support this right now, you say we're against all firefighters, against rescuers, czech, look at them, LMŠ is the one who's guilty that they didn't save you. That's not fair of you, because it's not true. The complete criminal amnesty in this area is unacceptable and we do not solve anything, only to further put people in danger. It's no problem if someone's carrying a red light, if it's going too fast until something happens. What, God forbid an ambulance takes an emergency drive past kindergarten and hits a kid. Ah, ha, I'm saying, God forbid, I don't even think about it. But after that, I wouldn't be, because it doesn't matter whether he's guilty or not. In fact, it doesn't matter, the person who would drive this ambulance is destroyed, I would be, the parents on the other side are just as destroyed, and we would say because he was on an emergency trip, because that sentence wouldn't solve anything, so let's treat the disease, not relieve the symptoms, let's get traffic in this country, so we'll all be responsible. That's why this house is here. I don't know what's gonna happen in 2050. I don't even know what's gonna happen tomorrow. But I know that today, with all due respect, I have also said that we have taken your proposal very seriously, we have also talked to the government representatives, and I regret that today I cannot support it. But I don't allow myself to have words or even thoughts in my head, but now LMŠ or colleagues here from SD or SMC are you against firefighters, against ambulances, against police officers, against all those who make sure that this country still works, as far as it works. But I won't allow that with all due respect. I'm sorry if I was too loud, but I really get emotional about things like this. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. No offense, my respectable fellow, I believe everyone gets carried away with raising decibels a little bit, but here, in this case, I don't think there's really any need. No one from New Slovenia said, but I don't think anyone from the opposition said that LMŠ was guilty. Who am I to judge you. But you rule, so you have a much greater responsibility than the opposition. Is it true? It's true. Government government, you've set up the government and you're part of the government. We already understand this alphabet. I thought, my dear colleague Pavšič, that you would tell us what is now with the government's opinion. I believe you've been talking. I believe, I trust, because we're colleagues, friends. I trust you've spoken to the government, but you said here on behalf of the LMSH that the Government does not support this law. This means that the Government has such or different meetings on the agenda and takes a decision. The government decides, it's a collective body. Mr. Vice President has told us that this is not what the government is building on. It is even more symptomatic that the Government has not announced at least one minute, at least five minutes to say something small. I respect that at least Mrs State Secretary is here to at least listen to us. But once again, colleagues, colleagues, by the coalition, it was also said: "This will come and it will solve these matters and some more." Don't fool around. He may be deceiving the diary, but there was no request for correction. Once again, as colleague Tonin said, it is normal for journalists to ask the competent ministry how now this law will help the ministry or government to solve these problems after this June accident — and it is not the only one. And what this Slovenian daily writes: "The Ministry of Infrastructure has recently sent a more extensive proposal for the amendment of the Road Traffic Law, which is the one whose supplement we are now considering, but which does not touch the rules of emergency driving." That's what the media says, and I have no reason not to believe I wouldn't trust it. That I will not now say how they comment on the amendment of the law tabled by Nova Slovenije, that is not important now. Everyone can read this for themselves. What has moved me, however, is that the Ministry of Infrastructure says: “We do not have information on the basis of which provisions the drivers of intervention vehicles have been sanctioned so far.” This one's pretty bad. But let's leave. Now we have a new law that we have prepared. We lived in a belief that if we sat together and got out together, we could also resolve such a small thing in another reading. I initially said that this text was probably not ideal, but colleagues, colleagues, if at least half of you from the coalition had read this law, including the interpretation of articles, the explanation of articles and so on, then we would have understood what we were actually opening up with this question. My colleague Janja Sluga was talking about the cell police officers, if I understand correctly. That the police officers don't sanction the paramedics on an emergency ride, even if they commit an offence or a traffic accident, if I understood my fellow Servant. A hat down by using common sense. But they're in violation of the existing law. I'm not going to say either, because I mentioned in the introduction that we had a meeting with the General Police Administration. I am simply afraid to say my names because gentlemen may fly away in this violent human resources policy if I make it clear what they have told us. That's why I don't hope to rock them. However, I said that police officers are asking us to reduce this violent bureaucracy in dealing with, say, a traffic accident or a traffic offence. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. He has the word Franci Kepa, to prepare Tadej Shuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye to your colleagues. I support this addition to the Road Traffic Rules Act, that the provision of Article 101, paragraph 4, gives priority to these vehicles, and that other participants give them the advantage. However, if a traffic accident occurs during an emergency, the driver is responsible for a traffic offence with the advantage of being punished. In addition to a fine, he may be sentenced to a penalty, and in extreme circumstances he may also be followed by the withdrawal of a driver's license and may lose his job. By supplementing the law, it shall be entered that drivers would not be penalised with preference in the event of a violation of traffic rules. This exception would apply to driving the emergency tasks of saving people's lives, saving property or if it is another emergency ride. In addition, the paddies and the criteria for these drivers must also be entered. This is that an emergency driver must not be influenced by alcohol, psychoactive drugs, illicit drugs. We do well to give additional relief to those who save our lives and our loved ones when they are doing human and very dangerous work. They're still risking their lives. However, further consideration should also take into account any comments made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The word has Tadej Shuštar, prepare Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u181	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word. Paramedics, firefighters, and emergency police are working for the good of all, and given that they are saving human lives and material goods, they certainly have no intention of causing accidents and harm in this mission. However, there are too many risk factors in road traffic, especially human errors that affect the fact that accidents on emergency driving do occur. In the event of an accident, a police officer dealing with a traffic accident shall be judged under the applicable legislation on guilt. Each individual may, however, lodge a request for judicial protection against the report and the payment order. The request shall be decided by the criminal authority or by the court and each participant shall have the possibility of exercising judicial protection against the decision of the criminal authority. The infringement authority shall assess all the facts and circumstances of the accident in which the vehicle is involved on an emergency journey. The current law on road traffic rules and the law on offences allow the criminal authority or court to put an end to the proceedings in extreme force, for example if the emergency ambulance was created in an accident with material damage in order to save the person who suffered a cardiac arrest. The problem is that often the criminal authority imposes a penalty on the driver of an emergency driving and thus also the penalty points. However, drivers on an emergency journey must then seek judicial protection so that the court can assess all circumstances of a traffic accident. In practice, most of the proceedings in the courts are then stopped, but for the driver on emergency driving this is burdensome – judicial proceedings, uncertainty, and all this bureaucracy. Our aim should be to minimise requests for judicial protection and to put an end to criminal proceedings against drivers of vehicles on emergency driving at first stage. It is necessary to listen to the demands of paramedics, firefighters and the police as well as to ensure that drivers are not subject to mandatory driving penalties and penalties and that their material and criminal liability remain. The offence of causing a traffic accident would be found as it is important for the participants of the accident and also for the payment of their claims for compensation. That's why I'm going to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Get Gregor Perich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will be very brief in my debate, because we have heard a lot of high-flying and populist words at this point today. That's not my point of discussion. I would like to point out, however, that once again, in the various discussions of the opposition's colleagues, the public was being misled. It is not true that on average, drivers who are on an emergency drive are punished. It just doesn't hold. Most of the cases, but indeed most of the cases are drivers who are on an emergency ride, for example, caught on a radar or cause any other traffic offence, under the legislation that is in force today, fines have been released for the offence or the offence against them has been stopped and no sentence has been imposed, nor the obligation to pay the fine has been imposed. So let's stop deceiving the public and say things the way they are. It is true, however, that we do not have such an arrangement that would in advance waive the responsibility of the driver who drives the vehicle with an advantage, without any judgment, prudence or justification of such a lack of responsibility. And I think we also don't have that kind of arrangement. It is necessary to be aware of all the effects of such an arrangement. These are not only the effects, as the proposalr suggests, of faster driving of the priority vehicle, for example, that the ambulance would have faster access to the injured person, but could have been the consequences of such an arrangement, as you suggest today, in the extreme case of more road victims. Therefore, by stating that your regime means improving traffic safety, as previously said by a colleague from NSI, I simply cannot agree. And that's an extremely populist statement. As it is said, it is necessary to be aware and to look at the whole picture a little wider than the proposaler and the opposition are trying to present today. Because of all the traps you are proposing, I do not think this is a good solution, an even less effective solution for the objectives you are presenting as proposing, and therefore I cannot support your proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Proposer Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Tina Heferle, I hope you haven't noticed in my implementation – what did you say? – high political words. You say that then also the University Clinical Center Ljubljana, the Rescue Station misleads the public. Then you also say that the Chamber of Health and Grandma Care of Slovenia deceives the public. Then you also say the Medical Rescue Section is deceiving the public. Well, you don't say that, but you said we were deceiving the public. And we said that we have listened to the initiative to change legislation by those I have now listed and signed here: Mag. Janez Kramar, Head of the Rescue Station UKC Ljubljana, Daniel Andoljšek President of the Rescue Section in Health and then, as it were said, the Chamber of Health and Nana Care of Slovenia, Section of Rescue Services in Health. We have been inspired by the people who are dealing with these problems. The legislator’s task, as we understand it, is to listen to people to their problems and, if possible, to remedy their problems in law, to remedy them. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye! The debate so far was also very loud, including what kind of siren it had turned on. Thank God we don't have the lights yet, except for the red ones. I understand this proposal and see it as a kind of well-intentioned one. But I'll explain why I can't give him my support. When we touched on such very specific cases today in practice, when an accident occurred, or when a vehicle was in an accident with the advantage of turning on lights or sound signals on emergency driving and another road traffic participant, it happens if we look at a purely legal, interesting case. In the current arrangement, vehicles have a relative advantage on emergency driving. Therefore, it is not necessary or compulsory to comply with road traffic rules, but they must be taken into account in a way that does not endanger other road users. The proposal, as I understood it by the proponents, may take a step further and introduces the concept of the absolute advantage of driving on an emergency basis than this relative advantage. If I look at this abstractly, it means that paramedics or police officers, when they are on an emergency trip, have an absolute advantage, so they can, under any circumstances, transport a crossroads. If there's an accident, it's the other party's fault. As we say, very abstractly speaking. Such an abstract view, we will find out very quickly, will not be accepted by anyone, because we can all also participate in normal road traffic and we will also be unable to stop in time if an emergency vehicle transports a crossing when it has no advantage, in a way that we will not succeed in doing so. On the other hand, we must also take into account that it is difficult to know what is approaching, who is driving the vehicle approaching the emergency vehicle. It may be someone who is younger, who has barely completed his exam, but not yet so sovereign in driving, could be someone who is tired after a long worker, could be someone who has medical problems or other problems, but his cognitive abilities are somewhat distorted and it is also appropriate to react in a reaction time and it will be difficult to respond appropriately. Not to mention that, in particular, those who are not from Ljubljana, where there is a possibility of such traffic crossings, much more than those in rural areas or where roads are different, can quickly be found in a panic situation. As it is said, it is difficult for me to accept that all responsibility for such a complication or for such an accident would fall solely upon those normal participants in traffic, and it seems to me that this solution, which is currently in force, is that each individual case should be judged in particular on the gravity of the situation, that is to say on the scale of the injury, if any, or the damage itself as such, because we have some action at the end of the day. We have heard more than once today in the debate if an emergency vehicle has been caught in a speeding radar, then it has to give when a fine comes to a specific address, even in accordance with the law within the appropriate time frame of the objection to that fine and all these fines are eliminated. However, if an incident or a traffic accident occurs, where there is also material damage or damage to such or otherwise, liability shall be determined, particularly if people are injured in this regard. If there is an easier injury, a criminal procedure shall be carried out if there is more serious injury, and a judicial procedure shall be carried out where all circumstances are clarified. The outcome depends on the clarification of these circumstances. We hear many times in the National Assembly also proposals for certain rights or exceptions to the fact that someone should respect certain rules in a particular area when we are talking about transport. Also on extending the use of blue lights to voluntary firefighters. Such proposals may at first sight be likeable, but on the other hand we as legislators need to take into account not only one aspect, i.e. in this case rescue workers or someone who is going to an intervention, but also all the other actors in particular in transport. I understand the initiative of all those applicants that my colleague Horvat has listed before me, but as legislators we must always weigh the different interests, in a particular case, of other road users. This argument to give rescuers an absolute advantage does not convince me in this respect. I still believe that if an accident occurs, we have some mechanisms depending on the height or severity of the injury or damage, when it occurs, that these different mechanisms will then be incorporated and then each case will be assessed individually, not that this is standardly regulated by a legal provision. In the final stage, we have also seen in the past that some, not all, and this would be very wrong for individual cases of excellence in those services that have the potential to use this intervention on the road to shed a bad light on those who are doing it properly. We have also seen in the police field that some have very misunderstood their work and in the final stage of their mission. Here we must all be very careful and, on the other hand, when we are talking about rescue workers or police officers who are rushing to a place to solve a problem, we must also protect all other actors in traffic who may not be paying attention at that time or who have simply failed to respond to a traffic situation in a timely manner. We have also heard something about the height of the fine and that the proposal to increase this fine may be a poor solution. On the other hand, the fine is 80 euros, which is comparable to someone who parks his vehicle in a location reserved for disabled persons or throws garbage out of a car, because someone in a car reacts inappropriately and does not give priority to emergency vehicles. I think that these two violations are still difficult to compare, in particular the disposal of items from the vehicle or the obstruction of some emergency vehicles, here these two matters are difficult to compare. Let me try to finish. It seems to me, or I am sure, and even in the previous mandate, that is when we get a proposal that is good, which takes into account many or most aspects of a reality, in the field of transport, it was also adopted in the previous term. Colleagues in Novi Slovenije you have proposed to implement a different understanding of the intervention belt or of this corridor on the highway so that the part of the vehicle on the right that was not to be used can also be used, i.e. the lane. And such a proposal was then adopted. I am pleased that the Slovenian public, i.e. Slovenian drivers and drivers, as well as those who cross Slovenia in transit, are increasingly aware of how useful and important it is to establish this corridor after a traffic jam. So I would say, if the proposals are completed enough or do not open any additional dilemmas, then in the coalition we will gladly accept them and confirm them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck has the next word and Mr Marko Bandelli is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Somewhere in the first year, after almost becoming a messenger by mistake, my dear colleague Ludmila Novak, whom I miss very much, admit, somehow laid down on my heart, after all, she is also a professor, often somehow doesn't catch me that I'm too subordinate to say too much together. I was in the E.R. today, or I passed the E.R. at Brežica General Hospital. Of course, as the president of my mother's working body is somehow also this description of my work and tasks and I come back to the house, I didn't mean to talk at this point, turn on the TV, I work up a thousand and one thing, the challenge of Slovenian health and then I don't understand much about what's going on. And someone is talking about Putin, who is late, and others are talking about some of the cloths on Bled and the pendant, and the third is talking about the coconuts, and the fourth is about how Ljubljana is not digitized enough to change everything to one button. And somehow I wonder, a letter, Franjo, who's crazy here, probably you. I always kind of come out of this position. What was I gonna say? Maybe it wouldn't be wrong for NSI to start a little bit of a follow-up to this proposal that Ludmila Novak made to me. This case reminds me very much, now Bako will be a fassal, not guilty, not guilty, the previous term, whenever Levika has proposed something good, then the SD has, as a rule, depreciated it to a degree of indiscretion, particularly at the so-called Ministry of Kopacheva. In recent times, whenever the so-called right hand brings something that is possible at the source of good to Parliament, and then so much obsess about it that you somehow destroy the good purpose of what you are proposing. There's been another footnote to digitization for quite some time. To speak, we will be digitized or we will not be spoken there in 1983, 1985. The unbeatable trends, Castells and so on, for many areas I am a layman, but for these areas I am an extraordinary professor and a doctor of science. So, please, fellows, this way to talk, they're kind of more masquerade. The proponent as a physicist knows what basically traffic is, fluid physics plus stochastic chains. More recently, systems of inequality than equations. There was a lot of talk about responsible, irresponsible driving. We who do not live around the corner of the National Assembly, because often public passenger traffic is in a state like, again, Madam Secretary of State, at the same intersection with semi-prisoners an accident at Lavrica. I'd like to talk to you about when this is gonna happen. I was alone on the train once when we hit a car. It seems to me that the problem on one side is that there is a problem on the whole of us involved in traffic. I don't think I'm a good driver myself, but I think at least a third of them are even worse drivers than I am. Too many people have to buy a personal means of transport or a car because we have thus scattered public passenger traffic. You know, in a country where three-quarters of people earn less than an average salary, where four-fifths of pensioners receive less than €800, the personal means of transport is too expensive. And I'd like to talk about it. If I go back to a specific topic, what if we're seriously talking about digitisation. Some emergency ride is not just a matter of being remembered by a half-defendant politician, but we have some protocol to refer to on the basis of one and a half articles that you have tried on the committee that I am chairing, but we have some protocols, it is a matter of record. We've got radar. We have artificial intelligence that can identify you. Let's talk so seriously about the smart specialisation strategy. After all, this can be very clearly programmed and can be seen very clearly whether Jože or Franc, who works there and with this vehicle, was on an emergency ride. Okay, well, then we're running with an attorney who might say, information up and down, because sometimes we're overreacting a little bit, but I've been dealing with the right to information privacy a long time ago. This would have been the case in a society that thought of itself in the 21st century. The second is, of course, when an accident or an accident occurs, as we say at the Styrian end, and then there is a protocol, as it must be. I'd rather talk about some of the issues that I started my previous mandate with regard to emergency medical care. I'd rather talk about being past that E.R., but today in Brežica they opened a CT ceremony that's been operating for a while. That E.R., even if I put the Court of Auditors aside, we didn't think much of it. A few weeks ago, I was on an intensification in Brežica, which is about as big as our living room. And that's where they literally enchant. And we're talking about where we're going to find about a million and a half million. I'd like to talk to you about these things. I'd rather talk to you if we were talking about the subject of Charec going to Putin, and the Americans have to pay the bill. And we're going to put $50 million in there for some kind of weapon, instead of thinking about what kind of helicopters we're going to buy, how we're going to go for emergency assistance. After all, if we're already in NATO, you know the position of the Left until it's different, why don't we specialize more in the medical field. But we now have some sort of thing, like Robbie said nicely, we come straight to the red-black carrot up and down and some topic that's serious, actually somehow seduced in this. And I've got big ears, like I said before, and I'm gonna turn on the TV, and I'm gonna need a little time to catch something between palm trees, a cocoon, knitting, and I don't know what else you're talking about in the hall. I personally do not think that at this point today, with all due respect, the proponents have earned a wage or a wage. But I have to say, in the sixth year, I'm a little bit flustered, maybe I'm in Andropavza, no, I'm sure I'm in Andropavza, and this kind of nebulosis kind of gets me into napalm, if I put it that way. With this kind of debate, we're not going anywhere. And after all, you're also a professional politician. Tonin is, after all, a master's degree in science and political science. You don't know much about politics. What happened in the first term from the Left over? And we used to kill each other with our heads. And I don't have such a crazy good opinion about this government, but the government is the executive power. We forget about it. We're a legislative body that has to start a new debate, I hope, at last, and I think I'm going to get hit by a train before this happens in the National Assembly. But we're all responsible, all 90. Not this delay, but we're not responsible, but we come here a little unhappy bunnies from our sleeves. All 90 of us are in charge. After all, my representatives in the National Assembly are also proposing if I read Article 82 of the Constitution and vice versa. In that sense, I would like a lot more serious. A lot more seriousness on the part of the executive branch. A lot more seriousness on the part of the specific ministry concerned. Because some lady, the president of a party earlier, would call Krleža a frogger than some serious job at the Ministry. To me, I admit, it's a personal shame that I'm an integral part of this team that's doing this and that kind of policy. After all, you are my associates both in the National Assembly and in the executive branch. I showed you the technical side of it. The other side was also said by someone who was reasonable enough. There are some areas where we may be able to make populism a little more personal, but such as health care, the area of accidents, the catch and so on, I think that too many areas have been planted so easily by political flowers or some, as I call it, nebulosy. I'm not going to ping-pong on any replicas, because it was already pretty embarrassing that I had to listen to this at work in the office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Marko Bandelli and should be prepared as the last Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you, Chairman for your word. I am sure that the purpose of New Slovenia was good, noble, I would say Nobel. It's not bad thinking what you think or what others support, but that you could give me one immunity to these drivers because it's essentially immunity, but it would be dangerous, it would be dangerous. I have previously read the position of our party, which has made it clear why, to whom we are going and why we do not agree at this point with this type of law. There is a need for regulation, I think there is a need for some kind of amendment to this matter or something. But marriage as such already exists. And marriage isn't as bad as it is. Some say that too high a penalty for the driver of the ambulance is too low a penalty for the person involved and you do not respect the rules. That's relative to what a high sentence is, a low sentence. If you listen to Duck, anyone who gets a fine of 400, 500 euros to get 50 % of their pension is a very high penalty. It's already a high punishment if we really have average wages. Here is a comparison of these penalties because we have one of the highest penalties that exist at the level of the European Union. For the amount of wages we have, such punishment is totally inappropriate. I have always been in favour of reducing these penalties in general and these sanctions. Especially when the exam is taken away. I never understood why they had to take away your exam. Let them punish you – but take the exam away?Oh, my God! The exam is some knowledge you acquire, it's knowledge for life, like school. No one can take your knowledge, nor should they take your exam as far as I'm concerned. If I'm going to the debate we're having here, why don't I personally agree? Because, for example, a driver with such immunity, where ratings are included, because virtually everything one could do would never be guilty. This is in the explanation I read, very precisely in your explanation of this law. I would never be punished, it is said that anything he can do, any act he does, he would never be punished. Now think of him going into one walk zone, in one 30, into one biker zone of the children. How can one child understand what that ambulance is that comes across? I'm sure a 6-, 7-, 8-year-old kid who starts riding a bicycle on the road, even if he doesn't have an exam – now they have to have a new exam – but what does this kid know when he comes across the speed of one ambulance – justifiably because he saves life, I repeat, okay, I agree – and then he rides that child? This man with immunity is not going to be completely to blame. This man will not be guilty if we accept this version of the law. What happens if, due to emergencies, he has to take the highway and go in the opposite direction? He could go, he could go after the adoption of such a law. He doesn't follow the rules, he goes the other way, and he'll never be guilty. This driver will never be guilty of anything. So we set up a precedent that will give these drivers the opportunity to do what they want and they will feel very strong in themselves. And that's not right, that's not right. I think it is necessary here, what we wrote in our position, that the ministry, because it is preparing, if I understand a matter in this sense, to study, in what way and how to protect one another, because that is what this is about. If we adopt this law, we literally don't protect both sides, we only protect one side. However, I am 100% in favour of sanctioning people who do not comply with the rules and do not move away from things like this. But the driver also has to watch when the red light comes, at least for a moment, to see that there's no one there, not going in the opposite direction, in a one-way street. These are rules that must also be written. I agree, however, that it saves lives, that this is an important matter. Nobody's arguing about it. But to such an extent, in the way that it has now been suggested here that we should accept this, I do not agree. It's the same thing as giving an opportunity, I don't know, Italy has adopted one law called the Defesian Legits. That means self-defense. You can shoot a man if he comes to your yard, and you'll never be guilty, and you'll say he's here to steal. That's not right either. Because that's how we all become cowboys. It's not right, and we know who adopted this law, which extreme party. I've never done this before, but if I don't miss it, even cops, if they're going to do some housework, they can't go alone without some witnesses. So no one here has absolute immunity. And that's why I don't agree with your proposal at this point. We would open one matter, one precedent that no one has, I think no one has what I have read, not Germany, not Austria and neighbouring Croatia, nor Italy, I am talking about countries around us, they have no complete responsibility for any action that they make in this respect. That's the only reason. Otherwise, I think, if this were regulated in a different way, the protection of one party and the other, it could have been further considered. In this case, to the extent that this proposal is now prepared, it is not for further consideration. So much for me, President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The proposer wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your discussion, colleague Marko Bandelli. It's not about any immunity. No one has immunity. This law, prepared by Nova Slovenija, does not give any immunity to any driver. Once again: the amendment and amendment of the law to all drivers of vehicles with the advantage and accompanying vehicles using special lighting and sound signs by carrying out certain emergency tasks provides that, as a result of violations of traffic rules and traffic markings, they cannot be penalised when it comes to an urgent driving which saves people's lives, property and when it comes to carrying out urgent tasks to ensure public safety and respect for the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. As an additional condition it is stated that drivers of emergency vehicles must not be subject to alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs and other psychoactive substances at the time of non-compliance with traffic rules and signals. However, the law, colleagues and colleagues maintain that the driver must drive only at such a speed as to handle the traffic situation. You mentioned your colleague Marko's walking zone, okay, maybe there are examples of a tree rescuer walking the zone, but only at such a speed that he masters the vehicle or he masters the entire traffic situation. Please. It's an exact reading in marriage. It's not about immunity. Since I am speaking and have a few minutes left, I am truly glad that Dr. Franz Trček has joined us, which I highly appreciate and I am pleased to have him chair the Committee on Health in our National Assembly. I believe that Dr. Trček has also read the initiative, I will say now, if I may, his very close associates, also enkra, and the fifth time I list them: University Clinical Center Ljubljana, Rescue Station, Chamber of Health and Nana Care Slovenia, Rescue Section in Health. What does the paramedic say? “It is very important to say that the management of the Ljubljana Rescue Station is seriously considering the adoption of an internal regulation which will allow emergency drivers to exceed the permitted speed by a maximum of 20%.” Why is that? Because they have enough legal proceedings and penalties. That's what they write, but you say there's no punishment. I don't know, so I was expecting us to go to another hearing where, as you know, we can invite all the actors. All of those I've listed — the General Police Administration, the Ministry, one, one and the other, and so on. And he asks us, he says, "Ask what this means for the unfortunates." That's what I'm talking about. If the lifeguard were to start at some point and have an accident or a person who has a heart condition, say 3 kilometers, if he is going through Ljubljana according to the rules, the prescribed speed in Ljubljana, for example, is almost everywhere, for example, because of an easy calculation, he uses 3 minutes for 3 kilometers. We say the seconds count. If it is now going to drive 20% more, otherwise I do not know who will sign this regulation because it is not in accordance with the law, it is said that this regulation should allow the lifeguard to break the road traffic rules by 20% as regards speed limits. If he drives 20 percent faster, it's 72 kilometers per hour, he'll spend 2 minutes and a half, which means he'll get half a minute on a three-mile radius. Half a minute. If the seconds count, yeah, it's a lot. If he drives 100 kilometers, which is probably very difficult, on this route 3 kilometers, again after Ljubljana, he'll spend 1.8 minutes, he'll get 1.2 minutes, but if the seconds count, that's a lot, that's life. So no immunity, I'm sorry, but if this is our fault now, we're checking out these people who wrote us all. That's all this is about. We will make whatever decision you make, and it surprises me once again that the government has not announced the time. It was said by the biggest government party that the government did not support. The government of our bill did not consider this issue at its meeting, and it was also said that the Government would address this issue systematically, as the media reported, that the Ministry of Infrastructure was coordinating a broader proposal for a new Road Traffic Rules Bill, which did not touch the rules of emergency driving. That's how we do it. And keep it that way. So let's keep the non-life solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you, President, for your word. Comrade Joseph, you know how much I appreciate you, with your mileage here you teach us a lot of procedures, I have a lot of respect for these things. But see, the text of the articles clearly states in Article 1 that infringement of traffic rules cannot be punished if it is an emergency driving or if it is a matter of public safety. Now I quickly read in four sentences what it says on a larger scale. It's clearly written. If we give these people this opportunity, they will never take into account anything and will not be guilty, but that does not mean that they are innocent because there are certain situations where their objective guilt is not their will or will or that there is an accident. There may also be inappropriate driving in certain situations, we know that under psychoactive substances they cannot drive, because no one can do that, but this is the only thing. And that's the problem here. There's only one problem now. At least as I see him. It's not right because you said that it's not immunity – it's pure immunity to man. He can do and drive as he wants, and he will never be punished for it, ever since it is written in Article 1. Here, that's the only problem. It is necessary to divide the matter inside and give the driver a certain responsibility; you must not go in the opposite direction if you have overlooked the sign and gone in the opposite direction because there is indeed a different situation. That's all I wanted to say. That's the only thing that's bugging me. With all due respect and deep respect, I respect people who save people on the road every day.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The last one gets the word, Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u197	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. This afternoon we have been talking for quite some time about the completion of the Road Traffic Act. As a Member, I will say that I find it difficult to understand, but also in the previous term, one segment, when people elect 90 Members and Members of this National Assembly in elections, then they influence and then cannot influence who is in the coalition and who is in the opposition. But I don't understand this segment, I mean to say that when the opposition, the group of Members, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, proposes one law, life law, neither does the government treat it, nor does the ministry have any relation or attitude to it. However, the command in the coalition is most often that such a proposal is not accepted. It will be very difficult for an MP to bring on this parliamentary bench a law that will be ideal. Any law that is more necessary, less necessary, which affects most citizens and citizens, or the law that may touch a smaller majority, can always be supplemented. But it always hurts me when the ignorance of more than half the Members is that it is irrelevant to mix pears and apples. A Member also told us today as if we were talking about what he was talking about when he was outside the National Assembly. It's like we fell off the moon. After all, we who sit on this left side were elected by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Now let me touch this law and these people. People who use these vehicles with light and sound signals, I firmly believe they are one of the best drivers in Slovenia. Today, he pulls some statistics out of what will happen if this driver or even today we hear that he can abuse this driver — or have you ever heard of a fire extinguisher using an eight - person vehicle that is in a van or in a larger vehicle that has turned on light and sound signals — I have not heard that. Today, we have heard this many times at this meeting of the National Assembly. Just imagine if we were to compare time, I don't know, ten years ago or fifteen years ago when they were talking about this marriage, when I wasn't in the National Assembly myself. There were probably fewer road accidents, much less traffic, much less accidents in factories, and much less accidents in the mountains. The way of life, today’s pace, the rapid pace of all of us living in this country, dictates this, has resulted in more and more accidents. And once again, I say that these are one of the most trained drivers. Just imagine when an unprofessional fireman sleeps at night in the winter, wakes up, doesn't even know what's out of time, only the goal. But we, when we call him, expect him to do so, count on him seconds to be the fastest driver and that his team in the vehicle will be the most professional. I don't think everyone who discussed this point was aware of that today. I already said in the position of the Group of Members that last year we also accepted the New Slovenia withdrawal on the highway with the belt. I think that a huge number of citizens and citizens who use motorways are still not taking this into account, and besides a fire truck on the highway on the left and right must stand by the fire extinguisher to measure the millimetres, or this vehicle can go to the scene of an accident. If this driver, who often works on a voluntary basis, harms one, he will be punished after what you advocate or what was once accepted. I think it is right to listen to this proposal, to put this into another reading and to complete it. That those people who voluntarily save our lives, I think it's very difficult to find a country in the world that has so many volunteers who want to help them, who want to help them that way from home to a firehouse, and then from a firehouse when they take the vehicle to an accident. I propose that we do not mix pears and apples and that we are aware that traffic, as well as accidents, has increased significantly since 10 or 15 years ago. And that even in the future, when we are no longer in this national assembly, we will be greatly increased. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I've been reported a relic. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you. I need to replicate my colleague Bojan clean for a magnetogram. I agree that this is one of the best drivers. I've listened to the last two hours of the debate in the byte. You almost didn't listen to me. And of course, I don't discuss things that I don't listen to. But I read the material for all the sessions. If anyone mixed pears and apples, you mixed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which Mr Jožef Horvat is also given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! No matter what your decision will be, I thank you for your attention and for your debate. Our marriage really goes in this direction, that we sincerely want to eliminate lifeless solutions. Once again, we do not delete any of the provisions of this Road Traffic Rules Act, but we are just supplementing it, which is why it is the law on amendments to the law. He says 101 most of all. Article. Article 101, paragraph 4, states, inter alia, that drivers, paramedics must drive in such a manner and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and do not endanger other road users or their property. That remains, yes, perfectly normal. Does anyone think that we want to make it legal for the paramedics to go wild? Please! Nevertheless, colleagues and colleagues, as I say, thank you for your attention, for your debate. Still, there is plenty of time, and I invite you to consider that in the second reading, however, we listen to those who do this activity, save human lives and property. It is true, I agree with Dr Trčko, that sometimes we go to the pageant in our debates and extend the debates very much. Are we so fair that we listen, once again, to these people and only to those who carry out this activity? And I'm not saying, I don't mean to say that we have to write the law exactly as they would have wanted, because that would certainly not be right. We have all the legislation ahead of us. We need to take care of the rule of law and so on and so forth. But to take an hour of time and listen to those people that I've counted a few times today, even the cops, maybe learn something. And that's all we ever wanted, so that's another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time has been set for the debate, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Here I also ask the representative of the government. Yeah. [[advertising from the hall]] Just a minute. I'm going to set up an application for a debate and I'm going to ask you all to sign up for a word. I note that only the applicant has been reported on the monitor, but I have seen that the Secretary of State has also applied, so I propose that Mrs State Secretary be given the floor first and finally the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Unfortunately, since I do not have the Government's views, allow me to merely give the position of the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act. I would like to clarify that the International Convention on Road Traffic in Article 7, paragraph 1, provides that all road users must avoid any conduct that would endanger or impede traffic, endanger people or cause harm to public or private property. The provision applies to all road users. The general rules of the International Convention on Road Traffic Rules are legislated as fundamental principles of road safety, namely the principle of defensive behaviour, the principle of trust and the principle of protection of weaker road users. The first principle, i.e. the principle of defensive behaviour, stipulates that each participant must act in such a way that road traffic is carried out smoothly, that it is carried out calmly and that it is carried out safely. Each road user is expected to detect potential road hazards in time and adjust his or her behaviour or driving accordingly. Each road user is obliged to act in such a way that he does not endanger or harm other road users. The second principle, this is a principle of trust, stipulates that road users should expect all road users and those responsible for road and road traffic regulation to comply with road traffic rules, drivers, motor vehicles and road regulations. The third principle, which is the principle of protection of weaker road users, particularly stresses the duty of all road users to care for weaker road users, such as children, older people, blind people, disabled persons and others, who are not fully capable of being fully self-employed in road transport, which therefore must be particularly attentive to road users because of their vulnerability. Furthermore, the Road Traffic Rules Act provides on Thursday, paragraph 101, that drivers of vehicles with an advantage, vehicles to accompany and accompanied by vehicles do not have to comply with traffic rules and traffic signals, but they must nevertheless drive in such a manner and at such a speed that they control the vehicle at all times and that they do not endanger other road users or their property. In accordance with the above, the illegality is excluded only under the condition that the driver of a vehicle with an advantage of accompanying and accompanying driving in such a way and at such a speed that he controls the vehicle at all times so as not to endanger other road users. If the vehicle driver with an advantage, accompanied by vehicles and vehicles causes a traffic accident, it shall be treated exactly as other road users in view of the cause of the accident, such as speed or alcohol, in accordance with the general rules of the International Convention on Road Traffic and the fundamental principles of road safety. However, we would like to point out in particular that in the case of an inspection of a traffic accident and in the case of an offence, the criminal authority shall carry out an official procedure under Article 50 of the Offences Act, which shall always assess all facts and all circumstances in which a particular offence has also been committed. In the event that the driver of a vehicle with an advantage or an accompanying vehicle has been sufficiently careful in the use of special sound and light signals and it is determined in the infringement procedure that other drivers should have noticed it, the criminal authority shall decide, in accordance with Article 51 of the Offences Act, that it will not issue the decision on the procedure and shall not impose the fine and the penalty thereof. That's what the criminal authority marks in the file. Let me just mention that similar arrangements have been arranged by some neighbouring countries, such as Austria, as well as others, not only neighbouring Austria, Germany, Croatia, Italy and Hungary. At the same time, I would like to thank all the debaters for the well-intentioned and constructive proposals that we will certainly try to follow further because we have the whole law open, as you have mentioned many times. So far, we have not touched the rules of emergency driving, and this does not mean that we will not do so if the proposals are constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Now you've cheered me up, Madam Secretary of State. We want to participate in this law, which means that you have just said that these matters need to be resolved. You have read very carefully the very good answer to our colleague Alexander Rebersk's question, signed by the Minister of Mag. Alenka Bratusek, and that's how she keeps it. Indeed, if we are also looking at the convention and the law, but we have to admit that the paramedics are actually endangering road safety, but that's why they have special signals because they warn, watch out, I'm here, I'm threatening, get out of the way. Why? Because it has a priority to save human life and property. So at least one positive piece of information, we'll hold you to your word that at least you'll try to solve these things that are acute. And if I may suggest, if you do not invite us, the opposition, which would not be good, then at least invite those who have given us an initiative to change the legislation that they are actually invoking, to ask for a change of legislation. I ask and suggest that the competent ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure, listens to the reality of the situation in practice in life. If you find out there's no problem, okay, then we've been misled. But as it is said, from written initiative and messages, and once again, the Ljubljana Rescue Station thinks that in the Rescue Service Implementation Rules, as this Regulation is called, they would allow the speed limit to be exceeded by 20%. Why? As they say, I quote, “because they have enough judicial disputes, procedures and penalties”. So it's not true that there's no court proceedings. It's not true there's no punishment. So. Of course, as we said in the law, if the driver is driving under the influence of alcohol, if he is driving under the influence of illicit substances, as they say, drugs, normally, then guilty, absolutely guilty. There's no debate. But if anything, it is likely that this debate at least prompted a little more intensive reflection. When you have this law open, truly, once again, I ask you to study with all these actors also the possibilities for improving this legislation. Whether it will be exactly as we have suggested, whether it will be another option, is your business or the matter of the National Assembly, and I look forward to having you join the National Assembly as soon as possible with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby adjourn this agenda item and the 11th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 18.35. (The sitting was suspended at 18.05 and resumed at 18.35.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u207	Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 6, 7, 8, 11, 13, 16 and 1 item of the agenda. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to the vote of the assembly. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Housing Law (SZ-1D) following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on the Community of Students. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body or at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the proposal for a law on judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks under the regular procedure. Before deciding on the amendments, we are moving on to a decision on the procedural proposal by Mr Jožet Tank that the National Assembly, pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, obtain the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the amended proposal of the law, in view of its compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court or the constitutional order. In accordance with Article 69 and Article 72, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is no discussion or explanation of vote on this proposal. With this in mind, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to obtain, in accordance with Article 73, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on an amended proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted and therefore we continue to vote on individual amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 23 September 2019. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB to Article 8. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB to Article 12. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB to Article 25. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB to Article 32a. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and we have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have carried out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 34. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 34.]] After a quick calculation, I find that the decision is not adopted. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Road Traffic Rules. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 13. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention of the World of Europe on the Prevention of Terrorism. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. I find that there are no applicants for discussion. As part of the second reading of the proposal, no amendments were adopted and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 10. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY — CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE ENERGY LEGISLATION. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Energy Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the responses of Ministers and Ministers of 24 September 2019, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek to Mr Luka Mesc's question on the enlargement of the Dolenjska Road. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Second proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Simon Zajc, Minister of the Environment and Space, to the question put by Dr Anjet Logar, regarding the appointment of the new Director of the Environment Inspectorate. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Third proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenia Klampfer to Mr Primož Siter's question on how to set supply standards in nursing homes. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] No decision is taken. Fourth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to the question of mags. Branca Grims related to measures to prevent illegal migration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Boštjan Poklukar's reply to Mr Dusan Šiška's question on the return of the police administration to Krška. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Sixth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the responses of Minister of Culture Zoran Poznič to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's question regarding the expansion of RTV contributors. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 7th Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure Alenka Bratušek to the question of the delegation of Jani Ivanuša on human resources policy. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Eighth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc to Mr Boris Doblekar's question on the issue of degraded areas in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Ninth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Mr Željk Cigler's question on the investment design and programme for DPN F2-2 and information on the last value of the F2-2 construction. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 10th Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the debilitating restrictions on the use of geothermal water and geothermal energy in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 11th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek and Mr Simon Zajc, Minister for Environment and Space, asked the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik in connection with the construction of the bonds. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 12th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek on the question of railway transport by Mr France Kepe. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 42. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I don't have a problem giving you 10 minutes to relax. We are here on the 13th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Mag. Ksenije Klampfer to Mr Bojan Podkorška's question on employment of foreigners and abuse of social assistance. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourteenth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Mrs Mag. Ksenija Klampfer to Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question about the price rise in social security institutions. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifteenth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to Mr Boštjan Koražija's question on mud in the Drava River and Ptuj Lake. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Dear Members, we are ahead of today's final decision. Sixth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister Rudi Medved to Mrs Natasa Sukić's question on the failure to implement the provisions on insourcing by the government and the ministries. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we continue on Tuesday, 1 October 2019, at 9 a.m. with questions from the Prime Minister. I also interrupt the 11th meeting of the assembly, which we continue tomorrow at 11 a.m. Goodbye!
