ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jelka Godec, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 17:00 to 18.30, Dušan Šiško from 13:00 on and Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. By this we are moving, honourable Members and Members, to 3. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I'm handing the word to the Secretary of State, Dr. Jerne Stromajer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u2	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Research and Development, following a reduced procedure. The proposal before you is a minor amendment to the law as a result of compliance with the provisions of the acquis of the European Union. It is the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of May 2016 on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of au pair in the ZRRD which governs the field. Let me say here that it is only a matter of minor changes to the transposition of the directive, which, unfortunately, Slovenia has already received a reminder in the past and must be transposed into our legal order. This is not about the changes in the scientific research sector, which was discussed in this Chamber in a public presentation of opinions ahead of time, but only about the transposition of the European directive. The amendment of the law itself at the substantive level, as far as the scientific research work is concerned, follows in a short time. The content of the directive that we are transposing today mainly relates to legislation that is regulated in the Slovenian legal order by the Foreigners Act and the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act. Only a small part, in particular the terminology part, the approval of research organisations for concluding agreements and the hosting of third-country nationals, relates to the area governed by the law before you. This proposal amends the definition of researchers from third countries by introducing a basic commitment to a host agreement in place of the definition in the current fourth indent of Article 5 of the ZRD, namely that a third-country researcher undertakes to pursue research activities and a research organisation commits itself to hosting researchers from a third country for the purpose of completing research activities. Also deleted is the decision of Article 28, paragraph 5, of the current law, which now contains specific conditions for the mobility of researchers from third countries under which researchers from research organisations in the Republic of Slovenia conclude a roaming agreement only if they wish to carry out research work in the Republic of Slovenia for a period of more than 5 months. The proposed deletion of this provision also establishes the same basis for all researchers from third countries in the event of a research activity in Slovenia, namely that they must have a roaming agreement with a research organisation in the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation of the provisions on short-term and long-term mobility of researchers from third countries will, however, be more precisely regulated in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Act, to which the matter belongs. However, some specifics in this area will be transposed into the applicable law on research and development activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is responsible for giving the floor to the President, Mag. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! At its 3rd regular session, on 10 January 2019, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Research and Development, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. At its 20th regular session, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Stromajer, said in the introduction that the amendment introduces Directive 2016/801/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, training, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of au pair guards in the Law on Research and Development in the field governed by it. From a substantive point of view, only those provisions of the Directive which constitute a substantive amendment to the provisions of Directive 2005/71/EC and which have already been transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by the amendment of the Law on Research and Development Activities. In the remainder, the Directive will be transposed by the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Self-Employment, Employment and Work of Foreigners. The legislative and legal service examined the proposed law in the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect and made some comments to it, and her representative explained that they had pointed out in a written opinion the three shortcomings of the proposal for a law which had not been repealed by the proposed amendment. The first deficiency relates to the legal regulation of the authorisation procedure for research organisations. The applicant explains that this should be properly transposed into the Slovenian legal order already by an amendment which has implemented the provisions of Directive 2005/71/EC, which do not differ by content from the corresponding provisions of the revised Directive 2016/801/EU. The legislative and legal service has already pointed out the fundamental shortcomings of the Law on Research and Development on the legal irregularity of the process of obtaining the status of a research organisation in its opinion on the proposal of this law. The second deficiency relates to the legal arrangements for a roaming agreement. The draft law only sets out the basic two obligations which must be contained in the roaming agreement, not all the components of the roaming agreement listed in the directive setting out the rights and obligations of the signatories to the agreement. These are regulated by a sub-legislative regulation, which is inconsistent with the principle of legality in the regulation of the rights and obligations of individuals. However, the third deficiency relates to the abolition of the legal exception so far, which does not require a roaming agreement for researchers who do less than three months of research. The proposed deletion of Article 28, paragraph 5, of the Act is justified by the fact that the Directive allows Member States to require, even in the case of short-term mobility of researchers within the Member States of the European Union, a second Member State to conclude a roaming agreement. No amendments were tabled to the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the labour market, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth has proposed to the State that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Research and Development Activities, the reduced procedure, be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. This brings us to the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Jurij Lep, you have the floor, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development Activities. The proposal for a new law aligns the existing law on research and development activities with the legal order of the European Union. This time, this is about the transposition of the European directive, which we are already late with since the deadline expired last May, and we have also received a reminder from the European Commission. The Directive refers to the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, volunteer work, student exchange programmes, exchange of educational programmes and the work of babysitters. With today's amendment, we only transpose those provisions relating to the Law on Research and Development. In the rest of the text of the directive, however, the content of the other two laws, namely the Foreign Act and the Law on Self-employment, Employment and Work of Foreigners. This changes in particular the definition of a third-country researcher and deletes the provisions on the mobility of third-country researchers, as this will be regulated in the second law. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law, and we are pleased that a budget balance was adopted at the government just last week, which increases funding for scientific and research activities by a good EUR 24 million. This is also an optimistic forecast for the development of our economy. In addition, a new law on research and development activities is being prepared. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the need for a new law that will fully regulate the field of research both financially and organisationally. We are glad that this one will soon see the light of the world. As it is said, the amendment we are considering today supports our parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law be considered in a reduced manner because it is less difficult to comply with European Union law. As this is an implementing regulation, the primary and secondary legislation of the EU and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union should be taken into account in the framework of the conformity assessment. The above Directive repeals Council Directive 2005/71/EC of 2005 on a specific procedure for allowing third-country nationals to enter for scientific research purposes. It is therefore necessary to transpose into the administrative order of the Republic of Slovenia everything which is governed by the revised Directive into a new or different form. This seems very important to us. The current EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation Horizon 2020 also increases the mobility of researchers, and we are seeing the stagnation of international cooperation with more developed non-European countries. We need to be aware that we are learning our whole lives and that it is a golden fact that we have the opportunity to cooperate with those individuals who want to be here in Slovenia and bring us their knowledge and rich experience. We also appreciate Slovenian researchers, such as recognised cardiologist Dr. Mark Noč, who is internationally valued, and in our small country, according to local words, worthless. Don't let this happen in the future. This Directive should contribute to the objective of the Stockholm Programme. By 23 May 2018, Member States had to bring their domestic legislation into line with the 2016 Directive on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals. The content of Directive 2016/801 of the EU covers to a large extent legislation governed by the Foreigners Act and the Law on Self-employment, Employment and Work of Foreigners and a small part relates to the area governed by the ZRD. Therefore, the vast majority of EU Member States will transpose this Directive into their domestic laws governing the coercion, residence and performance of foreigners from third countries. The reason for the adoption of the proposed law is the alignment of the ZRRD with the EU acquis. The law amends in particular the definition of a third-country researcher and deletes the provisions on mobility of third-country researchers. The proposed changes will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds and other consequences. Since this law is aimed at achieving the objectives of the social and economic development of Slovenia and research and development activities as a development priority, the transition to a knowledge-based society, we support it in the parliamentary group, but we want them to be fully regulated by individual articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aljaž Kovačič you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The basic objective of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development is to implement the European Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational programmes and the work of babysitters. A third-country researcher will seek to complete the research activity and the research organisation will commit itself to hosting researchers from a third country for the purpose of completing the research activity. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarca we support the bill. At the same time, when speaking about third-country researchers, he would point out the work of all researchers and researchers who see Slovenia as a country where they can take advantage of their potential. It should be stressed that today's work and achievements are undervalued, which are still of concern to us. Science has an important role to play in our society, and that is why it must be made possible by a development that will be useful to all. Why? Because society needs science. We people must be aware that this is the only way we will allow the further development of our country. It is true that money invested in research and development activities will not be reimbursed overnight, but for a longer period in the form of prosperity and prosperity. It is a long-term investment and its results will be seen in improved quality of life. This will make us competitive and confident and proud of the achievements of our researchers. Our aim is to enable our and foreign researchers to have a stable and stimulating working environment in which their creativity can flow to the surface. Although Slovenia is a small country, it has an important role to play in science. We must strive to keep it that way in the future. Let us allow researchers the best conditions, be proud of their achievements, and abroad will admire our achievements.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Marko Koprivc on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! As the speakers have already mentioned before me, by means of amendments and additions, the current law on research and development activities is aligned with the legal order of the European Union and means the transposition of the Directive on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of au pairs. While this Directive deals mainly with areas governed by the Foreigners Act and the Law on Self-employment, Employment and Work of Foreigners. The bill contains a change in the definition of a researcher from third countries, introduces a basic commitment to be included in the country's hosting agreement and deletes the provisions for the case of the mobility of a researcher from third countries within the EU, contains a special arrangement whereby these researchers with a research organisation in Slovenia conclude a specific research agreement for a period longer than three months. Since we are more than half a year behind the implementation of this law and the Republic of Slovenia has already received an official notice from the European Commission at that time, legislation must be adopted as soon as possible to avoid further proceedings or even possible penalties against Slovenia. Respected and respected, if this amendment of the law brings a small part of the European directive to Slovenian legal order, we are well aware that it is necessary to scrutinise the legislation on scientific research, so we are pleased to know that we are just before the beginning of the inter-departmental coordination on the proposal for a law on research and development activities. We are even more pleased that the proposal for a rebalancing of the 2019 budget foresees that for the first time in the history of Slovenia more than 200 million euros will be allocated for science and research. Social Democrats understand this as a first step, but far from being the last step towards the goal set, that by 2022 we will target 1% of GDP for scientific research. Therefore, these resources will need to be further strengthened in the next three years. In this way we will give a significant boost to Slovenian economic and social development at all. The Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mateja Udovč their word on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u14	Your Honor! The proposal for today's amendments and the amendment of the law on research and development activities aligns the law in force with the legal order of the European Union. It transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, volunteer work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of babysitters. Today we only transpose a small part of this directive, which concerns the approval of research organisations to conclude roaming agreements with third-country nationals. The rest will be transferred to the Foreigners Act and the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act, which we will address in the near future. More than the content of today's changes and the addition of the research law is actually more important than the current state and situation of Slovenian scientific and research policy. The current situation does not allow for scientific growth. Bathing on the ground and falling behind other comparable countries is certainly not something you are in our parliamentary group, but I believe that in others, we want in the future in this area. Although Slovenia is still in a group of strong innovators, because of its underinvestment and the growth of funds for research development activities, another country is making progress faster than we are. This trend needs to be turned in a different direction as quickly as possible. Some small but not insignificant steps to improve the situation of science have already been taken in the previous mandate. In 2015, funding for research development activities finally started to rise. However, we witnessed a more visible increase in financial resources in 2017 and 2018. Since 2016, the implementation of cohesion policy instruments, which have significantly increased the resources available for this activity, has been intensive. Of course, these cannot in any way be a substitute for national funding, but they can significantly complement integral resources. Slovenia has also started placing itself in key international research organisations. However, Slovenian researchers are given access to a key large research infrastructure. We must also not forget the active support of the major European projects under Horizon 2020 and the European Research Centre. A consensus was reached between stakeholders and, to a large extent, a new law on research and development activities was prepared. But in laurels, even if these are small, we must not fall asleep, so it is essential that active work on the new law on research and development continues. In doing so, it is particularly important to ensure predictable and stable funding for research and development activities, which will gradually approach the 1% target of GDP funding in the coming years. If we can do this in the field of higher education, we can do it here. The first test awaits us all together when we adopt the budget rebalancing for 2019. They're good for now. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we expect to decide as soon as possible on a new proposal for a law on research development. And today's novel will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Boštjan Koražija has the floor on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u16	Your Honor, thank you for your word. All Members and Members of Parliament have a good greeting! The proposal, which we are considering today, translates into a law on research and development some of the provisions of the European Directives concerning third-country nationals doing research work in Slovenia. While much of the directive is concerned with other laws. A more important part of the directive on traineeships, voluntary work, student exchange programmes and the work of foreign teachers in Slovenia will be transposed into the legal order through amendments to the law on foreigners and the law governing the work of foreigners. In Levica, we will pay particular attention to regulating the situation of foreign guardians and to ensuring that these persons are given adequate labour protection and to preventing abuse and exploitation of foreign workers, or especially workers from socially weaker environments and regions. The law that we are considering today should, in particular, highlight the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service regarding the exemption of the submission of certain evidence in obtaining a residence permit for third-country nationals hosted by research organisations. The Directive provides that the Member State of the researcher shall exempt the submission of certain evidence in the process of obtaining a residence permit. I am talking, for example, about proof of sufficient means to cover the cost of survival, which has already proved problematic in the past, as some researchers from third countries cannot obtain or face major bureaucratic obstacles, even though they have or will only acquire them. As matters are not governed by the law we are considering today, we expect that the exemption, as provided for in the directive, will be regulated in the next amendment to the Foreigners Act. Furthermore, we do not agree with the introduction of a new obligation for researchers who have already entered into a roaming agreement in another Member State of the European Union and want to do research work in Slovenia for a period of less than three months. These researchers, too, will have to conclude an agreement with the Slovenian research organisation following this proposal. It is now considered that the short-term mobility of these researchers does not require an additional administration. The Government did not give any reason for such a decision in response to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which stated that the new obligation violated the right of researchers to short-term mobility. Since we have a major problem in Slovenia with the one-way mobility of young researchers, i.e. by sending researchers abroad, at the low rate of arrival of foreign researchers, such a measure is unnecessary and even harmful. We cannot avoid the feeling that in this case it is an attempt to improve statistics on researchers' mobility, but not a measure that would actually help. Because of the proposal listed in Levica, we will not support it, we will be abstinence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that New Slovenia will support changes in the law. However, we regret that this did not happen before that we were late to receive a warning. If the Directive was adopted on 11 May 2016, then we know that, given that it is still more technical, this could have been adopted long ago. Above all, I regret that there is no debate to accept this through a reduced procedure. Why? Because we know that in the field of research, financing the research sector in Slovenia we have quite a problem. Now, while we say that the budget will increase for these purposes, when I talk to researchers, I have found that it will increase mainly because of the need to reconcile wages with new changes, so for infrastructure, for material costs, there will be no more money for projects. Some said it would be even less. But we all know how important new knowledge, new technologies are, because the world is changing so quickly and because we have to compete with others all the time. It is also right that we cooperate with researchers from third countries, because knowledge must circulate, and they also bring certain knowledge into our space, and they will certainly enrich themselves in our space with our researchers and go with new knowledge to their jobs. And this triangle, university, public research institutions and economic development laboratories, is extremely important for the development of the economy, new technologies, for us to be competitive, for new, better jobs to be created, this also means that people will have better wages, better averages and ultimately the whole country can have a lot of advantages. And it is right that these researchers who come, that the agreement with them is also properly arranged, that there is no confusion, irregularity or anything, because this has also happened many times before that they have left disappointed because the conditions, these conditions, were not properly regulated. Let me repeat, New Slovenia will support changes in the law, but we want much more money to be devoted to this sphere, because it is good not only for the development of the economy, but for the development of the society as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Vojko Starović, on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek, is the last person to take the floor on behalf of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we will support the amendment of the Law on Research and Development, which we have before us and in which it is primarily a matter of alignment with the European legal order. This Directive, which we transpose, refers, as has already been said, to the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship and all that is involved, including the performance of the work of babysitters, as mentioned, which means an additional opportunity to cover the costs of study to individuals. At this stage, we only transpose those provisions of the Directive which amend the provisions of the 2005 Directive into a specific procedure for allowing third-country nationals to enter. In the rest, the current directive will be transposed by amendments to other laws, namely the Foreign Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Self-employment, Employment and Work of Foreigners. Unfortunately, we need to rediscover that we are also delaying the implementation of the directive in this matter. The deadline was already May and Slovenia received a reminder. That's why it's a rush now, which is not good. This proposal for a law is not the first or last in this mandate, which we will have to accept under pressure. It is also right to point out here that this practice is not good. The transposition of this Directive into our legislation means easier movement and exchange of knowledge and scientific projects, as well as a study, which is of course very welcome, but it would be time to get a proposal for a new law on the table that will clearly define the systemic and stable financing of research activities. The current situation in science is not good. This is also reflected in the departure of our young and capable experts and researchers abroad. However, if we want to have a developmental and innovative society, we simply cannot afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on certain concessional agreements by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration in the assembly. I ask the representative of the Government of Mr Method Draganjo if he wishes to speak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The purpose of the law currently under consideration is to transpose Directive 2014/23 into the Slovenian legal order. The current regulation of this area is already regulated in the Slovenian legal order, but the content of the complaint lodged by the European Commission against Slovenia shows that Slovenia has not fully transposed the provisions of the directive and therefore a comprehensive regulation of the problem is needed. The draft law follows closely the provisions of the European Directive and fully addresses the transposition of the Directive. The proposal for a law on concessions to be granted in accordance with this law sets out in particular how concessions are granted. These are rules on the procedures for the selection of concessionaires, the content of the concessionaire decision, the concession contract and its modification during the duration of the contract, and the rules on the implementation of the concession with subcontractors. However, it does not specify in which areas concessions are awarded and does not oblige concessions to grant concessions. The chancellor can always carry out his duties on his own. In the event of a decision to grant a concession, the choice of the concessionaire must follow the provisions of this Act if the concession fulfils the conditions of this Act. By such regulation of the manner and procedures for granting concessions, the Directive constitutes an upgrade of the public procurement European regime. The proposed law in the Slovenian legal order builds on other laws that already regulate concessions. The law will apply to concessions whose value is equal to or higher than the threshold set out in the Directive currently amounting to EUR 5 million 548 thousand and are not defined as exceptions to which the law does not apply. The law provides as exceptions for all exemptions provided for in the Directive. For example: drinking water supply, electronic communications, line passenger transport, defence and security, non-economic services of general interest. In defining a concession based on a proposal for a law, it is also essential that an operational risk is passed on to the private. During the examination of the draft law on the Committee on Finance, fear was created that the adopted law would require a change in the multitude of other laws, but the Government considers that this fear is unfounded, since Article 10 of the proposed law clearly limits the application of the law in question and the laws governing concessions in specific areas. This Article provides that concessions governed by this law and specific sectoral laws shall be subject to the law and to the provisions of specific laws if they are not contrary to this law. This means that the law in question applies to all concessions over the amount laid down in the proposal for a law and concessions are concluded in areas which are not defined by the directive and the law as exceptions. It is clear from this that all concessions which do not meet the conditions under the law in question are fully subject to specific laws governing concessions in specific areas. As it is said, the purpose of this proposal is not to determine in which areas concessions can be granted or in what way an individual public service should be organised and implemented. It can also be performed as a non-economic service of general interest or as defined in the domestic concept – non-economic public services. The proposal for a law on the procedure for the selection of concessionaires does not bring any significant news, as the law has already laid down a public tender, under which the eligibility of the award of an individual concession must also be justified. Finally, I would point out that the directive has been in force since 2014 and should practically be applied in Slovenia by concessionaires and that the law will definitively regulate the area in a legally consistent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The competent parent body is the Committee on Finance, so I give the floor to President Robert Pollnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u24	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 3rd meeting, on 15 January this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on certain concession contracts, which was postponed by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. At its 20th meeting, on 7 December 2018, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. As a material for the meeting, the Committee received the following materials: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana and the opinion of the Municipality of Maribor. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups, namely the amendments to Article 8. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and the Council of the State participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill. He explained that the proposal for a law constitutes the implementation of Directive 2014/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts. He noted that the deadline for transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order was 18 April 2016, which is why proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia are already under way before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this process, the European Commission proposes to impose a daily fine of EUR 8 000 992 on the Republic of Slovenia from the date of the application to the fulfilment of its obligations. The Secretary of State stressed that a comprehensive revision of the concession law would take several years and that the bill under consideration was adopted and that the provisions of other laws in this area were effective if they were not contrary to the provisions of the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the Legislative and Legal Service had drawn up a written opinion containing two general comments and 12 comments to each article. Individual comments are taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, and it noted the failure to respect the general comment on the non-compliance of concession arrangements in the draft law with a number of laws governing the award of concessions in the Slovenian legal order. For this reason, the Legislative and Legal Service believes that the following laws should be amended: economic public services, health care, pharmacy activities, social protection and public-private partnerships. On behalf of the Commission, the Commission expressed its support for the draft law to the representative Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee highlighted the issue of delays in the implementation of the European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order and, consequently, the urgency of adopting legislative solutions to avoid financial penalties. It was pointed out that Slovenia is in an awkward position to implement the directive, as it is almost three years late. All other Member States of the European Union have already transposed the Directive into their legal order. The situation must be resolved and the resulting situation limited and the potential damage prevented. In view of the inadmissibility of such practice in adopting legislation, the competent minister should also act, according to the Minister of Finance. However, a large part of the debate focused on not taking into account certain comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on the draft law. Members and members of the Committee were particularly interested in the reasons why the Government does not take account of all the comments made by the Legal and Legal Service and the approaches to a comprehensive revision of the concession legislation. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided further clarifications on the concerns expressed in the debate, in particular as regards differences with the Legal and Legislative Service and the reasons for the late transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. You have the first word, Mr Jani Ivanuš, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u26	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman! Good day to the government team! Have a good day to all of you! Even though it snows outside, we'll see how beautiful it is! I have before me a proposal for a law on concession contracts by emergency procedure. It is another skeleton from the cabinet of the former government or the Ministry of Finance, which has not done its work. On 26 February 2014, the European Union published Directive 2014/23/EU and instructed EU members to transpose the framework for the award of concessions laid down by this Directive into national law by 18 April 2016. According to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Robert Polnar, the directive has already been transposed by all countries other than Slovenia. According to the Secretary of State, Mr Draganje, the previous government has failed to deal with the bill for two years. Due to the delay of the deadline, the European Commission again brought an action requiring a daily fine of 8 000 and a few euros for Slovenia from the date of the judgment. Although the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has warned us that the bill does not clearly define non-economic services of general interest, this has not been corrected or supplemented by an amendment. The bill was extremely clumsy in explaining the role of this law in relation to other sectoral laws. Although the Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, claimed that the sectoral laws would apply only if they are not contrary to the proposed law, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that in practice there would be considerable uncertainty as to which parts of individual laws apply. The proposal for a law should therefore be more clearly regulated in relation to the specific laws governing the award of concession contracts. In particular, this applies to the Law on Economic Public Services and the Law on Public-Private Partnership, which generally regulates the award of concession contracts in a number of areas. The drafter did not take this proposal into account. The representative of the National Council, Mr Komac, also appealed to the Ministry to provide support to local communities, as the content of the bill was not understandable. Although we understand this government's desire to correct the things that the previous government has failed to deal with, we cannot support this law, which will cause even more confusion than it already has with regard to the granting of concessions. We will therefore vote in the Slovenian National Party against the proposal for a law on certain concession contracts. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. You have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It is now very difficult to read this law and it is even harder to read the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. By this law, if this law is passed, the legislators will cause much uncertainty and legal uncertainty in Slovenia about concessions, on the one hand, on the other hand, the European Commission is suing Slovenia because, since 2014, when this directive was actually adopted, it has not implemented this directive, let alone to regulate the concession area with us. The question is why, in fact, this law is then adopted, why the European Commission has not already regulated this area for Slovenia in particular in this Directive. And secondly, who cares that concessions are not regulated in Slovenia? Or – to whom it is in the interest that concessions are regulated in a number of sectoral laws that operate in their field and where individual institutions, individuals, associations and so on are able to obtain these concessions, and in fact, I will say that this system in Slovenia does not reveal and make transparent. Who's in this place's interest? Because here it only prolongs, if not even increases, the agony of lack of transparency and ambiguity and legal uncertainty. The first question for the Government is how many concessions will be signed under this law, if any, and which will be. The second question is where is the clear distinction, when the concession will be signed on the basis of this law, when on the basis of sectoral laws, and how much lawyers will earn here to actually settle it. What does this law actually need if the concession is not fully settled? And, of course, there's no one in anybody's interest. And this was not in the interest of the previous government, and this is not in the interest of the current government, as it seems. The current government wants this law to go through, under pressure that the European Commission will charge almost 9,000 euros for every day if this law is not made if it is not enforced. It's the pressure on the MPs, remember! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, paragraphs 80, 81, 82, when it comes to the independence of Members, is above that. This is pressure due to the executive power of the former government. We don't go to the Slovenian Democratic Party to play these games. We're just not going to play these games and we're going to vote against this law. However, we want concessions to be arranged in Slovenia in a uniform way for all rules to be established for all the same in order to make the system transparent. There's an ideal way to do this, but you can't. Why not? For 5 years since this Directive was and a few years before Slovenia participated in Brussels in this Directive, the executive authority has participated in Brussels in this Directive, see years and years. I think it's a deliberate act here that doesn't work out. You will not see the Slovenian Democratic Party in such cases. We want a transparent system, for all the same, uniform rules, and it will also use or use taxpayers' money in a uniform way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u30	Representatives of the Government, Members and Members, one good day. The Act on certain concession contracts was the result of changes in EU procurement legislation. This area is considered to be a problematic and necessary improvement everywhere in the European Union, not just for us. Therefore, in 2014, the European Union adopted a so-called public procurement package, a set of harmonised and uniform procurement rules to be incorporated into its national legislation by the Member States. States must adapt legislation within two years. In view of this information, Slovenia is already very late and is therefore threatening to pay high penalties to the European Commission. Therefore, the question is justifiable: why is this still regulated and what are the concessions with public procurement? Changes and unifying rules often involve complex little things that can make a big difference. In Slovenia, for example, under the concept of concession, we understand the power to perform a public service or the authorisation to carry out an activity for which the State is solely competent. Thus in Slovenia we know, for example, concessions in health care or concessions in the form of rights for the exploitation of water resources, quarrying or other natural resources. However, in the revised European rules, concession means the form of a public contract. Therefore, it appears that the simple requirement of the Union to transpose the rules into its legal order may lead to significantly greater problems than it appears. If the new expression were to be transposed uncritically into its legislation, it could substantially change the situation, rights and obligations of all those who currently hold concessions. In view of the current situation, consider immediately the concessionaires in health care or the number of other concessionaires who perform important public services on behalf of the State and the municipalities. Therefore, the fear that accidental transmission would cause harm is not entirely unfounded. We can recall that, a good month ago, the Constitutional Court, at the initiative of the concessionaires, partially annulled the provisions of the Health Act, which imposed upon concessionaires the obligation to return the profits created by the public service to the system. It is therefore very important for us to transpose the European directives with caution without decommissioning our public service system. That's why the government had a hard time drafting the bill. The European Union rules on concessions with what we understand in Slovenia under this concept do not have much to do with them. As a concession, EU rules understand the form of a larger public contract in which the concessionaire assumes a greater part of the business risk. Such concessions are therefore mainly possible for the construction of buildings, but not for the provision of public services. This should be the case only with those public procurements falling under European rules that are more than €5 million. According to the Government's assurances, this does not change the applicable rules for concessionaires, public service providers, except for the procedures for granting new concessions, where a mandatory assessment of the need for and the sense of awarding the concession will be required prior to the selection. This is what the Social Democrats have been advocating for a long time. Members and Members of the SD will be supported by the draft law in order to avoid the penalties of the European Commission. However, we call for a more thoughtful and systematic transposition of the new common rules, with less emphasis on avoiding penalties, more attention to developing viable and comprehensible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jože Lenart, the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, and an apology in between. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you, President. We're all going to make it, I don't doubt it. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law transposes into the Slovenian legal order a directive whose transposition deadline has already expired on 18 April 2016, which is why proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia are already pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this process, the European Commission proposes to impose a daily penalty of almost EUR 9 000 per day on Slovenia, from the date of the application to the fulfilment of its obligations. In the process of drafting the law, several options were put in place in the previous reference to the National Assembly: we could completely recast the concession legislation; we could choose to transpose only the directive, but no proposal was considered for the completion of the mandate of the previous composition of the National Assembly. Since comprehensive reform of concession legislation would take several years and we are temporarily threatened by an action, today's proposal for a law is being adopted. In doing so, let me stress that the provisions of other laws in this area still have an effect if they are not contrary to the provisions of this law. The aim of the Directive is to harmonise the legal order for the award of concessions. At European Union level, legal certainty was lacking in the selection procedures for concessionaires. Small and medium-sized enterprises have been deprived of rights in the internal market. The irregularity of the area, however, has prompted a situation in which public funds have not been used in the most optimal way. The law thus uniformly regulates the procedures for the selection of concessionaires for construction and services as defined in that Directive, with the definition of concession derogating from the definition of concession, as understood in Slovenia. Traditional concession means the granting of a special or exclusive right – and in fact, the directive provides for a public procurement system where a private person assumes more risks than in public procurement, takes operational risks so that the investments necessary for the implementation of the concession contract will not be reimbursed during the duration of the contract – and additional principles whose value is equal to or greater than EUR 5 million 548 thousand, are now valid values that are not exempt by law, such as non-economic services of general interest, defence and security, electronic communications. This is a procedural law that does not define the content of individual concessions. The objective of this proposal is not to determine in which areas concessions can be awarded or in what way an individual public service should be organised and implemented. This is left to the ministries or their field legislation. The proposal extends a set of concessionaires who can grant concessions. They were now only a state and a municipality, and the law also allows the award of concessions to public institutions, public undertakings, other economic operators that have a special or exclusive right, such as Dars, Eles and so on, which have so far only been able to implement procurement procedures. The concession recipients will enter into longer-term relationships that will ensure a more stable business. The proposer shall ensure that the proposed concept is the result of in-depth reflection and corresponds to the need to transpose the Directive. At the same time, it establishes an appropriate relationship with other legislation within the scope of the options. For all the reasons listed above, we will support the proposal for a law in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Monika Gregorčič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! The Act on certain concession contracts is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the European Directive on the award of concession contracts in 2014. Slovenia is deeply delayed by the transposition of this Directive and the European Commission has already brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union in March 2018 for non-notification of national rules. The deadline for transposition expired already in April 2016. We must admit that it is not very proud of us that the competent ministry did not join the transposition of this Directive until the beginning of 2017. However, the Ministry of Finance initially planned the transposition of the Directive through two related laws, namely the Act on Procedures for the Grant of Concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnerships. However, at the time of interdepartmental coordination, such a course has proved to be slow and difficult to succeed. In Slovenia, the concept of concession is used for relationships that are not only concessions under the provisions of the said European Directive, but also by the word of concession we understand more widely various permits or public powers. While both laws were adopted by the Government at the end of 2017 after a close to one-year coordination process, no consideration was reached in the National Assembly as a result of the withdrawal of items from the agenda and the early termination of the mandate at all. It appears that there has not yet been an agreement in the new government on how to regulate the area of concessions in a single way, so the new finance minister has decided to propose a law that deals only specifically with this area, in order to satisfy the conditions for transposition of the directive for exclusive use only in the areas of construction and services above certain value. The new law therefore aims to lay down uniform rules for the conclusion of concession contracts for construction and concession contracts for services above the threshold of EUR 5.5 million without VAT. Although the proposed law will not interfere with the current regulation, it will continue to apply to the conduct of a public service or other activity for which the law prescribes the issue of an administrative decision for reasons of public interest, and to concessions under the threshold set for the application of this law, and even for all concessions which are not expressly contrary to this law. All of this in practice means that the law we are considering today will rarely be applied. We therefore call on the Minister to renew his efforts to urgently regulate the area of concessions in a comprehensive manner. The adoption of such a type of law as is before us today only increases the impreciseness of the system of awarding concessions and the legal system in general. Nevertheless, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party's proposal in the Parliamentary Group, because the solution to this problem has been too long and the financial burden of non-admission or non-transferability of the directive would be too great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Primož Siter has the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on certain concession contracts lays down rules on the conclusion of concession contracts for construction and services of which the value is equal to or exceeds the threshold of EUR 5 million 548 thousand. The main problem with the proposal of this law is that the award of concessions to private persons is seen as a non-problem, as an unexecuted fact. But just awarding concessions is nothing but covert privatisation, and this one, I'm not going to say anything new, in Levica, we are strongly and uncompromisingly opposed. The problem or process of privatisation through the conclusion of public-private partnerships started in Slovenia by the end of the 1990s. This was mainly attended by municipalities that, through concessions, privatized a single set of public and municipal services. Because of the supposed greater efficiency of the privates, the municipalities then privatized their cleaning facilities, where there is an absolute champion in the field of Maribor. In 1997, he entrusted the construction and management of his cleaning plant to Austrian and French multinationals, and since then, the Mariborians have paid the prize amounts on the stand. There is a similar case with public transport. This is also a pity in Maribor. The municipalities used to replace public services, road maintenance, lighting, waste management, chimney services, etc. Unfortunately, concessions were also absorbed in education, primary education, higher education, secondary education and health care. But this trend is not unique to Slovenia, even abroad, the results of the award of concessions have proved to be devastating. In Germany, in 170 cities since 2007, privatised public supply networks were taken over in the past, as there was no other way, water, electricity, gas pipelines. In 2015, the PSIRU research group prepared a comparative study on the effectiveness of the management of services within the framework of public-private partnerships and found interesting conclusions. First time. Public-private partnerships projects are particularly long-term. The average duration of negotiations between the State and the private on the contract is usually 34 months. Another time. They are twice as expensive in terms of funding than public projects. And the third time. Their social efficiency is lower as regards the price of services and in terms of accessibility itself. The adoption of the European Directive, which is being transposed into the Act on certain concession contracts, had a heated debate in the European Parliament and the Council and the general public in 2013 and 2014. However, the scope of the law before us is not clearly and uniformly defined, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. For example, the introduction and explanations state that the law will not apply to the award of concessions for the performance of public service or other activities for which the sectoral law expressly prescribes the issue of an administrative decision in order to protect public interest. This restriction cannot be understood from the articles of the law itself. While the proposal for a law under the directive does not provide for compulsory award of concessions in the field of its validity, it does lay down the conditions for a single European market for concessionaires. Well, this is where we come up with a serious problem. Slovenia is thus building an area where foreign, larger companies and multinationals will be significantly easier to compete for concessions in addition to domestic companies. The consequences could be exactly the opposite of what was expected. The law is thus intended to facilitate access to concessions for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but, hand-to-heart, smaller companies will find it difficult to compete with some large foreign companies in concession procedures. In the award of concessions to large companies, a concessionary position is also placed in an unenviable position, i.e. a municipality or a country whose large undertaking, contrary to public interest, is easily able to dictate on its own terms the terms of the concession contract. The proposal for a law rather than a solution brings in particular new ambiguities and potential problems, so we will oppose it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, on behalf of the Group of Members, I must reiterate my indignation over the terrible inefficiency of the former Government. However, since the team from the previous government is actually incorporated, it is an integral part of the current government, so there is nothing new in Slovenia. What am I talking about? I am talking about just one case of late transposition of the European Directive, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Slovenian legal order, in which case the Act on certain concession contracts. The Directive was adopted five years ago. We are almost three years late for implementation, so the lawsuit against Slovenia in the EU court and the already written sentence, as has been said several times already, is EUR 9 000 a day. So in 100 days - 900 thousand. It is only a matter of time before this mail is sent to Ljubljana. So much for inefficiency. Of course, this is also a pressure on Members. We have studied the content of the law that implements the so-called European Directive and we assess that the law does not revolutionise the system of awarding concessions, as the legislation already in force requires a public tender for the award of concessions. The need to grant concessions must be justified before the selection process. The only novelty is that the selection procedures of the concessionaire should also be published on the EU's public procurement portal and that more rapid and effective legal protection should be provided in the selection procedures of the concessionaire. So in the same way as public procurement legislation. This law uniformly regulates the procedures for the conclusion of concession contracts in Slovenia over the threshold for the application of the law and for areas other than the law and the directive. It is also appropriate to simplify the selection procedures of the concessionaire in the area of exceptions and below the limits set out in the Directive. The Slovenian acquis in the field of concessions has no loopholes, all areas are covered. By unifying the rules for the selection of concessionaires or for the conclusion of concession contracts at EU level, our Slovenian companies will also be able to enter the single European market for concessions under the same conditions. This is one of the key solutions in this law and for us, for New Slovenia, it is very important because Slovenian economic operators will have the opportunity to compete in the single European market, as proposed by this law. And we have no intention of closing down the European market for Slovenian economic operators. The fact is that both the directive and the law allow the State and the municipalities to decide for themselves how to carry out their tasks, to carry out their own or to grant concessions. However, they do not require the award of concessions. However, if a decision is taken to grant concessions, the rules provided for in this proposal should be respected, which governs only the rules in the selection procedures of the concessionaire, not the rules for the implementation of the concession. In this part, the proposal for a law is not different from public procurement legislation. That is why it is so important that private selection procedures are as transparent as possible. When the contract and when the concession is entirely dependent on the concessionaire, how it will define the subject matter and at what cost it will pass on to the private. That is why we are favored by this law. I also supported him on the Finance Committee. Of course, we call on the competent ministry to hover over the implementation of this law and, if necessary, to optimize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Franz Kramar on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The draft law transposes the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, which should be transposed by 18 April 2016. Given that it will soon take three years, it is high time to settle the matter and adopt the proposal for a law. Of course, we can rightly ask ourselves why such delays in the implementation and implementation of directives are so common. Slovenia is increasingly on the backdrop of transposition directives, and so often money, which could be spent much more usefully, is committed to paying penalties. While this is a topic for another debate, this fact simply cannot be ignored. The possibility of punishing us is, of course, forcing us to quickly adopt the law, but the urgency can, unfortunately, always reflect on certain shortcomings and weaknesses. When discussing concessions, it is difficult to overcome the fact that the regulation of the award of concessions is fragmented and dispersed into several regulations, which can be problematic with several aspects. Here we must attach the City Municipality of Ljubljana, which highlighted this point. We believe that a roofing law should be considered to regulate individual areas in one place. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out that the regulation of concessions under the proposed law, on the one hand, and many other laws governing the award of concessions in our country, on the other hand, is inconsistent, and the provisions of the sectoral laws are incompatible with the directive and consequently with the proposal of the law. We can only hope that there will really be no confusion and complications in the conduct of the proceedings. In any event, it is also a welcome opportunity for the concessionaire to change his decision to select the concessionaire if he finds that a particular fact has been ignored and misunderstood. Such a possibility of remedying errors can undoubtedly ensure greater legal certainty for participants, and ultimately, for all those involved in the concession process, it ensures that indeed the best bidder will be selected. Also welcome are the preparatory actions in which the implementation of the law imposes before the process of selecting the concessionaire is carried out. Above all, it is appropriate to introduce a compulsory study on the eligibility of concessions, since this can avoid certain non-compliances that have occurred in the past. In the Group of Members of the Party Alenka Bratušek we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we have almost finished the debate of the Group of Members, as Mr Robert Polnar, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! The regulation of concessions in the Slovenian legal order differs somewhat from that laid down in the European Directive. The main reason for the incredible and unacceptable delay in transposing the European Directive into our legislation is the inability and incompetence of all key players in this process after the harmonisation of many completely diametric opposite views. Key participants are the executive branch of the authorities, the legislative branch of the government and the Slovenian legal authority. The interest of the State in harmonising with European legislation, and in particular the interest of the State not to pay high daily fines, is, as it appears, marginal and irrelevant. For the Desus Group, it is therefore crucial to implement as soon as possible with as few penalties as possible for the State budget. The law governing certain concession contracts relates to construction concessions and service concessions, not to public service concessions. Although the scope of concessions in our legal order is regulated in the Law on Public-Private Partnership and in the Area Laws. In particular, the decision to grant a concession is the assessment of the relationship between the short-term budget expenditure and the long-term costs arising from the provision of services through the concession contract. For this reason, we support the fact that the law introduces the obligation to draw up a study on the eligibility of the award of the concession before the selection process begins and to prepare an assessment of the value of the concession. This is also the basis for determining the duration of the concession contract. Important legal solutions are also allowing concession contracts to be concluded between public sector entities or related and joint undertakings, the conclusion of concession contracts for research concessions, social concessions and, in particular, reserved concessions, subject to the consent of the founder of public law or the consent of the Supervisory Board to public undertakings. The law also pays particular attention to the arrangements for the implementation of concessions with subcontractors and to the rules governing the modification of the concession contract at the time of its implementation. However, there may be a risk that concession-holders will be in an administratively undefined position when they do not know exactly what law is to be applied to the award process. The concessions covered by this law, as well as special laws, are subject to this law, and the provisions of specific laws are also applicable if they are not contrary to this law. We therefore propose that the Government initiate procedures for the drafting of a new law that will regulate all types of concessions in a uniform manner. Ladies and gentlemen! The early entry into force of the Act on certain concession contracts is necessary and the Democratic Party of Slovenia will therefore support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It is now true that we have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, Second Defence, Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I'm asking the Secretary of State if he wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Dragonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members, including the amendment of the Insurance Act, is submitted to the legislative procedure primarily with a view to the transposition of the relevant European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. A key idea of the proposed novel is the provisions of the European Directive relating to the protection of consumers and insurers, which are further protected by this law in particular from the point of view of the insurance relationship procedure. These insurance ratios are now sold through very different sales channels or distribution channels. The law specifies the standards to be taken into account by insurance product distributors in their operations in order to act in accordance with the best interests of the insurers. Thus, the law provides a higher level of protection for insurance policy holders, even better quality information for customers and better business rules. The aim of the bill is also to improve the written provisions or to eliminate certain inconsistencies in the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2009/38, i.e. the so-called Solvency 2 Insurance Directive. On the basis of a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, 30 amendments were adopted by the Finance Committee on the proposal for a law to remedy the identified nomological deficiencies in the law. The Committee on Finance, as the parent of the labour force, supported the proposal of the law. The draft law is supported by the Insurance Supervisory Agency and also by the Slovenian Insurance Association. As regards the legal status of insurance agents, an amendment to the provisions of this Act has been tabled. This topic has also been discussed at the Economic and Social Council meeting, but the Government has taken the view that the legal status of insurance agents does not belong in the Systemic Insurance Law but should be regulated in labour law. Finally, I would point out that, despite the fact that we are still late in the transposition of this Directive into Slovenia, insurance companies are already directly applying the Directive in order to avoid any compensation to which they are subject when they enter into insurance business. I suggest the National Assembly approves the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The competent Finance Committee, which is also the parent labour body. I give my word to the President, Mr. Robert Pollnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 3rd meeting, on 15 January this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and a letter from the Union of Slovenian Financial Organisations. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups up to 30 amendments. The coalition's parliamentary groups have also tabled amendments to the five articles of the law. The members and members of the Committee also received two amendments from the Committee of the Levitical Group on 93 and 94. Article, as well as the proposal for an amendment to the Committee of the Levitical Group for a new 144.a. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Slovenian Insurance Association, the Legal and Legal Service and the State Council participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill. In doing so, he stressed that the proposed law implements the provisions of Directive 2016/97 of the European Union on the distribution of insurance products, the main objective of which is to harmonise national provisions relating to the distribution of insurance and related products. The key objective of the bill is to ensure the protection of insured persons as consumers, which must be ensured despite different distribution channels. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the service had already submitted a second written opinion on a similar amendment to the law. The procedure for examining the first novel has ended because the mandate of the National Assembly has expired and the Government has re- tabled a similar amendment in this mandate. The Service notes that the proposed law takes into account the large majority of the comments made by the service in the first opinion. In another opinion, the service made some further comments on new solutions. Most comments are of a nomotechnical nature and some are of a constitutional and systemic nature. She noted that due to the increasing number of financial laws, it would be necessary to accede to the amendment of the Law on Offences. In conclusion, she stressed that most of the service's comments were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The representative of the Council of State expressed support for the bill. The representative of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the representative of the Slovenian Insurance Association also explained that they supported the bill. The debate drew attention to the poor practice of delay in implementing European legislation in the Slovenian legal order, which exposes Members to pressures and risks of adopting poorly prepared legal texts. The view was expressed that the adoption of laws aimed at implementing European legislation should not involve additional substantive corrections. Furthermore, the debaters focused on the proposal for an amendment of the Committee of the Left Group to Article 94 and the issue of chastity and the situation in the labour market in the field of insurance. In the opinion of the proposed amendment, the proposed amendment to the definition of an insurance representative would help to regulate working conditions in insurance. On the contrary, some discussers opposed the adoption of the proposed amendment, because they felt that labour rights should be regulated in labour law. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance stressed that the proposal does not bring changes to the status of insurance agents, but rather a more precise definition of the term of insurance representative status. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 and Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has examined and adopted the amendments of the members of the coalition and the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Left Party to the 94th Article, which it has not adopted. The proposal for the amendment of the Committee of the Left Group to Article 94 was not adopted and the proposal for the amendment of the Committee of the Left Group to Article 144a became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, we are moving to the positions of the Group of Members. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. The main objective of this law is to implement the European Directive in the Slovenian legal order. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we warn the Ministry of Finance that the next implementation of the directives of the European Union is more consistent. The fact is that, even with this amendment and the completion of the Insurance Act, the law should be adopted by 1 at the latest. Seven. 2018 and enter into force 1. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Given that the transposition of the EU Directive, which is important in the further development of the insurance market and in particular in the protection of consumers, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Andreja Zabret has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u50	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! According to the latest report on the future development of the labour market in the European Union, three out of four EU employees are expected to work in service activities such as insurance and banking by 2020. Since the introduction of the market system in the early 1990s, Slovenian insurance has achieved an increasing rate of growth faster than overall growth in the economy, but has not yet reached the average of European participation in gross social product. Insurance in the European area contributes almost 10% of GDP and 6% of GDP in Slovenia. It creates economic development, while allowing room for growth and development. It represents an important economic sector where we need to see the element of progress and strategic direction as the Slovenian insurance market is assessed as a medium-sized market compared to the insurance market of other EU members. With all the changes that are emerging in the world today — from economic, systemic, environmental and other insurance sellers — it is therefore important that the insurance sector is regulated. By adopting the bill, we also contribute to the further development of this economic sector, as we want confidence in the insurance sector and financial institutions to be increased. Sales procedures in all EU Member States will be equally regulated, which will increase transparency and comparability in the provision of insurance. The bill is also intended to protect the consumer, since it protects him from today's well-known small print and the conclusion of insurance that he does not really need. Thus, insurance will have to be more consistent with the customer’s needs and requirements. The consumer will be more informed about the products offered to him and will be told exactly what he will get for the price paid and where the risks he takes are, so the possibility of misleading sales and potential anomalies will be less. It is not always easy to assess what kind of insurance we really need and what we can expect from the insurance company. This proposal also introduces a procedure where the sale of insurance products will always have to be accompanied by a test of requirements and needs based on the information obtained from the customer in order to prevent cases of misleading sales. This means that the consumer will have to meet it before the insurance is concluded and the result will show him whether or not the chosen insurance is needed. The level of protection of insurance buyers will rise to a higher level, information for consumers will be better and forms of sales of insurance products will be regulated in a uniform manner. We will support the bill in the LMŠ Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u52	Say hello again for another year. The amendments and additions to the current Insurance Act are also due to changes to European rules, with which Slovenia must also harmonise its legislation. The amendments adopted at European level in 2016 relating to the marketing rules for insurance products. This is a set of rules aimed at protecting consumers. To this end, insurance undertakings and insurance agents shall be subject to obligations which they must respect when marketing their products to customers. Even when we are late in adopting this law, the potential punishment of the European Commission threatens us. The amendments to the bill thus relate in particular to informing consumers of the status of sellers and the forms of payment of their work, to advising the parties and to providing the information needed by the parties for an informed decision. Therefore, it is essential for people as buyers of insurance services to inform consumers more comprehensively, to familiarise them with potential risks and to take personal responsibility for their advice. In the event of a consultation, the parties will also have to provide a personal recommendation explaining to the parties why a particular insurance product is most appropriate for the needs of the customer. Given the increasing complexity of financial markets, even in the case of simpler services such as insurance and consumer credits, it is certainly right that financial institutions take responsibility for stronger and more informed parties and therefore provide their consumers with accurate and complete information. In doing so, let us note that the effort to better inform the consumer is certainly appropriate, but it is essential that we do not forget the importance of all high-flying words. It is not sufficient for the insurance undertaking to provide certain information and comparisons, provided that the insurance agents attach to their offers any other table or request or signature of the party in order to understand the complicated general conditions. It is essential that the consumer understands them as well. Therefore, we will only be protected by consumers when the sellers of financial products try to understand their offers. Therefore, we would like to see this legislation not once again overcome the Luxembourg aspect. Initiatives have also emerged in the legislative process to include in the text provisions to improve the legal situation of workers in insurance, in particular those working in atypical forms of employment. This is certainly a topic to be addressed everywhere where working relationships are disguised as inter-enterprise cooperation, but handball and partial changes usually do not bring good solutions. Therefore, we believe that it is more reasonable if changes to the law focus only on complying with the new rules on consumer protection. We will support the proposed changes in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Monika Gregorčič has the floor on behalf of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The amendment of the Law on Insurance also transposes the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. This is a directive on the distribution of insurance products. The Directive entered into force in all Member States of the European Union on 1 October last year. Even before the entry into force of this Directive, both the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Slovenian Insurance Association presented all the innovations to their users, allowing them to prepare themselves well for the changes to come. In the past mandate, a completely new umbrella insurance law was adopted, which transposed the European Solvency 2 Directive into the Slovenian legal order. This new roof law has laid down the conditions for the establishment, operation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings established in Slovenia. However, the greatest emphasis has been placed on managing the risks and financial stability of insurance undertakings, strong internal control and the protection of insurers. However, as the financial crisis also highlighted the importance of ensuring effective consumer protection, the new European Directive aimed to further strengthen customer confidence and to simplify the regulation of insurance products. The new directive therefore aims to ensure a higher level of protection for insurance policy holders and even more quality information for consumers. The Directive also touches on business rules for insurance sellers. The role of insurance intermediaries is changing, and insurance guardians are also becoming new. We will therefore support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members. As the special added value of this novelty, we also welcome the amendment of the provision laying down the conditions for membership in the Supervisory Board of Insurance. At the proposal of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, we have included in the law an amendment that will strengthen the Agency's supervision of members of the supervisory boards of insurance undertakings. The Agency shall, following a new decision, be able to prohibit a member of the Supervisory Board from performing a function if the member concerned does not fulfil the conditions laid down by law at the time of appointment or at any time after the date of his or her appointment. Thus far, it has not been possible to regulate such a measure. To date, the Agency has only been able to call upon a member of the supervisory board in question to be resolved through the Assembly’s call. In practice, this could have meant that the discharge assembly did not then vote, but the agency did not have any other powers, so the contested member could continue to carry out his duties. The same arrangements have already been established in the area of banking. Finally, we would also touch on the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors, which was rejected by the Committee on Finance and is therefore not the subject of this law today. We have also denied him support in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, but not because we would not want to address the issue of convenience and the situation in the labour market in the field of insurance. The debate has shown that the proposal for a law does not change the status of insurance agents, but that it is only more precisely the text of the transposition of the directive into our legal order. Representatives of the Insurance Supervisory Agency pointed out that there are around 11,000 insurance agents registered in Slovenia who are employed in insurance companies, insurance companies or are independent entrepreneurs. The last one's about 900. In our Group of Members, we point out that a quick and reckless interference with their legal situation, despite good intentions, could have harmful consequences and that such interventions in a free economic initiative could be very problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Primož Siter has the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, the government novels of the Insurance Act contain some positive provisions governing consumer protection. The latter are usually in a subordinate position in the case of insurance transactions due mainly to poor information. The new law therefore provides that the parties shall be provided in advance with relevant information on the insurance product and information concerning the employment status of persons. This is one of the positive provisions. The novelty then also contains some positive fines intended to prevent conflicts of interest on the one hand between providers and consumers of insurance services. For example, insurance companies of their employees will not be allowed to pay or assess their performance in a manner contrary to their mission, the basic mission, that is to say, in accordance with the interests of the insurer. If, on the one hand, the amendment highlights the solution of these asymmetric relationships, on the other hand, asymmetry is not affected in the more problematic sphere, i.e. the relationship between employers' insurers and employees' insurance agents. The situation of insurance agents who are forced to carry out penal work without any appropriate set of rights arising otherwise from normal working relationships is quite controversial. The labour market of insurance agents is quite stratified. Some insurance companies have employees, carry out work on the basis of a contract of employment, while others have a so-called combination, i.e. employed representatives and those who are taken into detention or are organised as espas or parts. The problem is that employers of employed representatives are also increasingly pushing them into espouses and thus putting them in a subordinate position of payment and other rights, for example when they get sick and so on. One statistic. According to the Insurance Supervisory Agency, 900 insurance agents are organised as espeii, meaning quite a swimming pool. 900 is a large number of a cheap and flexible workforce that is mostly subject to exploitation and abuse. Cases from Slovenian insurance companies are publicly known, where insurance agents receiving variable wages are subject to unilateral changes in the level of their salaries by the employer, and a number of cases of self-employed representatives working for one insurance company with all the elements of the working relationship. The interesting information is also that last year insurance was almost the only activity in Slovenia where average gross wages fell by 2.5%, while virtually everything elsewhere, in health care for example, rose by 5%. As far as our amendments are concerned. Due to the clavicle position of the employees of the insurance agents I spoke about, we presented two amendments in Levica. They provide that insurance undertakings shall, within two years, employ all representatives on the basis of employment contracts. This would force insurance companies to change their exploitative business models and provide insurance agents with a decent working environment and the rights they are entitled to work. On the contrary, the Government insisted that insurance agents carry out their activities either on the basis of a contract of employment or on the basis of “other pay-as-you-go” with a dictatorship, in the notes, of course, “other pay-as-you-go relationships” leave open doors on the road for further expansion of criminal employment, non-permanent working relationships of insurance agents under certain second-rate contracts of civil law. That is why we will oppose the amendment of the Insurance Act in Levika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are considering the novelty of the Insurance Act because of the transposition of the European Directive. It's too late, but let's just be a warning. In insurance companies, procedures will have to be put in place to approve each insurance product prior to its marketing. At the same time, we are asked to what extent this change represents a new bureaucratic or administrative burden for insurance companies. But if this is to the benefit and solely for the benefit of the buyer of the insurance product, then we welcome this part. We also welcome the provisions under which information relating to insurance will have to be presented to the insurer openly, honestly and professionally in accordance with his best interests. These will also have to be market messages. Insurance companies of their employees shall not pay or assess in a manner contrary to their duty to act in accordance with the best interests of the insurer, i.e. the buyer of the insurance product. The insurance undertaking will have to inform the insurer in time before the insurance contract is concluded of the nature of the payment received by its employees in respect of the insurance contract. Insurance agents and insurance intermediaries will need to be continuously trained in order to maintain an appropriate level of services. This will be based on at least 15 hours of vocational training per year, taking into account the nature of the sales products, their role and the activities they perform in insurance representation or intervention operations. Successful vocational training will be demonstrated by obtaining a certificate. Well, it's not really new, some well-organised organizations are already doing it. In the registers of insurance agents and intermediaries, the names of natural persons within their administration will have to be indicated. In addition, the registers will contain data on Member States in which an insurance representative or insurance intermediary carries out a business on the basis of freedom of establishment or freedom to manage services. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose this amendment to the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Franz Kramar on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Again, we have before us a law whereby we will implement certain provisions in the Slovenian legal order, while at the same time certain provisions already in force have been drawn up and improved and eliminated the inconsistencies that have arisen in the implementation of the Solvency II Directive. The only right thing to do is to put as many laws as possible at the forefront of consumer protection. In a specific case, they are insured and well informed about individual products, as we know that only a well-informed user can make informed and informed decisions. And it is only right that we do this, if possible, at the level of the European Union and not only at the national level. It is also right that the law protects not only insured persons but also takes into account employees in insurance companies. These insurance undertakings will not be allowed to pay or evaluate their performance in a manner contrary to their duty to act in accordance with the best interests and interests of the insurers. Let us hope that employers will respect this conscientiously. The solutions provided by the law are certainly most welcome, but it will certainly be necessary to think carefully about how to implement some in practice. For example, one is that which requires the insurance undertaking or the intermediary to obtain information on the investment insurer’s knowledge and experience in consulting them so that they can recommend insurance, investment products that are suitable for it. This raises the question of how this area can be regulated in such a way that it will actually be effective. For example, the insurer could be considered a fairly unknown connoisseur and later, in the event of a negative dissipation, would be deemed to be an inappropriate verification of his knowledge by the insurance undertaking. A system will therefore need to be set up to exclude such scenarios and ensure a good transfer of ideas into practice. The obligation to continue professional training should also be welcomed. A few weeks ago, at the re-examination of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, we were able to hear the opinion of some that such obligations are unnecessary and sufficient to bet on the ownership of stakeholders. Unfortunately, in practice, the picture is often different and it is for truly high quality providers of a particular service to bet the most on the obligation of continuous vocational training. Members of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Following the share of insurance premiums in the gross domestic product, Slovenia takes 14th place among the European Union countries and therefore the Slovenian market for insurance services is somewhere among the middle developed European markets. In concrete terms, this means around €3 billion of premiums collected in 2017. Slovenia has a low share of life insurance in the structure of these incomes. In the opinion of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, this poor knowledge of such insurance products cannot be overlooked, however, by the impact of the market strategies of individual providers and their calculations between costs and benefits. From the point of view of the national economy and from the point of view of the financial system, insurance is therefore an extremely important service activity with many providers and, in any event, with many more demanders, so it must be properly regulated. The Insurance Act was completely amended in 2015. The most important provisions relate to the conditions for the establishment, operation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings established in the Republic of Slovenia and to the status, organisation and rules of operation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the exercise of responsibility and liability under this and other laws. The Directive on the distribution of insurance and reinsurance products is complemented by the law and to a large extent complements it. It follows three basic objectives: a higher level of protection of insurance policy holders, quality and more accurate information for consumers and clearer business rules for insurance sellers. The focus on the protection of the interests of buyers is reflected in one of the most important new provisions requiring the insurance intermediary to obtain the necessary information regarding the investment knowledge and experience of the insurer in the field of investment and the financial situation of that person in order to recommend to him appropriate insurance, investment products. What it's going to look like in practice, we're just going to see it. The design and maintenance of an appropriate level of services will require direct professional training of insurance agents and intermediaries. However, it is also important to provide solutions to the law laying down the obligations of the insurance representative, which will require the insurance representative to explain to the insurance agent why an insurance product is the most appropriate in the light of the requirements and needs of the insurer or potential insurer. On this basis, the insurer will have all the information necessary to decide on the conclusion of a possible insurance. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Insurance increases the level of consumer protection and raises standards for the provision of insurance services; in the Desus Group we will support this bill for the sake of this proposal. In doing so, we are further convinced by the opinions of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and of the Slovenian Insurance Association as an economic interest association of Slovenian insurance companies, which had no comments on the proposed text of the law at the meeting of the parent working body as an important participant in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u64	Good day to you all, Mr. Vice President, government team and everyone else present! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. The Legislative and Legal Service has found that the explanations merely literally summarise the content of an individual article and merely mention the articles of the directive being transposed, thus not achieving the standards of explanation required by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 115, seventh paragraph. This makes it difficult to assess the solutions proposed, since the explanation should explain the content and purpose of the individual provisions and the consequences and interconnection of the solutions contained therein. How, then, should the Member vote in favour of amendments and additions to the law if the proposer does not know or does not wish to explain these changes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? In addition to the law, there is also a provision which allows the Insurance Supervisory Board to prohibit a member of the Supervisory Board from performing a function by a decision where a member of the Supervisory Board does not fulfil the conditions set out in this Title or in this Act at the time of appointment or after the performance of the function. This is a completely flawed provision. Let us ask ourselves, ‘ How can anyone become a member of the Governing Council if he does not meet the requirements of this law? ’ It is necessary to lay down strict conditions for the appointment of members of the supervisory boards of insurance undertakings, but not to regulate the procedure for prohibiting the performance of the functions. Despite the fact that, in view of the constitutional requirement on the proportionality of the processing of personal data, the Legislative and Legal Service has found that neither the purpose nor the period of storage of police records or the personal data contained therein have been determined, the drafter of the law with the amendment has only completed the retention period, not the purpose of the storage. Without the purpose of storing personal data, it is not possible to test whether an intervention in the protection of personal data is necessary to achieve a constitutionally permissible objective. It is interesting that no political party has the privilege of having one of the insurance companies in existing legislation. One provision constitutes an exception to the regulation of other pension fund managers. The existing Blue Insurance Act allows the insurance undertaking to invest in business shares of companies through a limit of 5 % of the technical provisions. However, in the event that the buy-in value is lower than the guaranteed value of the mutual pension fund, the operator must establish provisions for the non-performing of the return on own resources and, at the occurrence of the insurance case, also pay the resulting difference in the burden of the established provisions. Although the Slovenian Insurance Association proposed deleting the part of the sentence, which is the basis for the order issued to the Blue Insurance Company, it rejected them. By supplementing the law, a new Article, Article 617a, defines infringements in the business of an insurance undertaking with insurance and investment products is added. Article 150 of the draft law explained in the following way: "Article of the transitional provision provides that until amendments to the provisions on the heights and ranges of fines laid down by the law governing offences, the heights and the ranges of fines set out in 617a. the article of this Act shall apply irrespective of the provisions of the law governing offences.” Lawmakers have completely ignored the hierarchy of criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia. The fundamental law governing the area of criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia is the Law on Offences, which lays down general conditions for the regulation of offences and sanctions against them. We can say that the Offences Act governs the area of the law on offences in its entirety and therefore has the character of a system law. The rules governing offences in the Republic of Slovenia may only be applied in conjunction with the Offences Act. The proposed new Article therefore departs from the Offences Act, since it does not allow for such fines or alternative fines, nor does it allow for the provision of fines in the amount of percentages of annual traffic outside the areas set out in the Offences Act. Such provisions lose the systemic nature of the Offences Act, which also raises questions about the principles of equality and legal certainty provided by the systematic regulation of offences. There is another interesting detail in the bill, in some ways labour material is regulated. The Slovenian Financial Organisations Union has pointed out that the word "other-remuneration relationship" relating to the legal basis for the performance of insurance representations makes it unacceptable to extend the possibilities for the performance of work in a way of payment, in which case the word "other legal relationship" was used. It would be essential for labour relations to be regulated by the system law, which is the Labour Relations Act, and therefore we oppose the partial regulation of labour law in other sectoral laws. We will therefore vote in the Slovenian National Party against the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Thank you very much to all those who have listened to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the resolution and forcible transfer of banks within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Dragoň. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! To the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of this legislative proposal, we transpose the European Directive of December 2017 amending the Directive governing the resolution of credit institutions in part concerning the classification of obligations for the purposes of payment in insolvency proceedings. By unifying these rules in all European countries, an equal assessment of the position of the bank’s creditors will be ensured. The latter is important because the creditors' funds under the new bank resolution rules can be used to cover the losses of the bank, but only to the extent that it takes into account the principle that no creditor should be worse off than it would be if the bank went bankrupt. However, this can only be ensured by applying the same rules to all Member States of the European Union as to how the obligations of the bank are classified for the purposes of paying creditors in the event of bankruptcy of the bank. Furthermore, the Directive also provides for a new class of bank debt securities and its placement in the hierarchy of liabilities for the payment of creditors. A new class of debt securities is established on the basis of an international requirement adopted at the G20 level, which provides that global systemically important banks must ensure the size of capital and subordinated liabilities in order to be able to cover possible losses themselves. By issuing debt securities belonging to a new class of property, these banks will be able to meet this requirement. In the hierarchy of liabilities of banks for the purposes of insolvency proceedings, a new class of debt securities is classified with all advantages and unsecured ordinary liabilities of the bank over liabilities under the ownership of the underlying capital. On the proposal of the Bank of Slovenia, the proposed law also introduces the obligation for banks to publicly publish information on their issuances of debt securities, in particular their placing in the hierarchy of liabilities for the purposes of payment in bankruptcy proceedings. In particular, investors in debt securities whose issuer is a bank will be taught in advance the characteristics of individual types of debt securities, thereby ensuring greater transparency and understanding of the conditions and risks associated with a specific debt instrument. The reason for this proposal was also the experience gained from the last resolution of the Slovenian banking system, where some securities holders of banks affected by the write-off measure referred to insufficient information on the risks brought by the purchase of such securities. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, an amendment was adopted by the Finance Committee to the proposal for a law, thereby eliminating the inappropriate use of expression in Article 2 of the proposed law. I propose that the amendment of the law be supported by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u68	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 3rd meeting, on 15 January this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Resolution and Forced Cessation of Banks at second reading submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the following materials: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 2 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and the Council of the State attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the purpose and purpose of the bill proposal and presented the main solutions relating mainly to the transposition of Directive 2017/2399, which aim to harmonise the order of payments made by banks and to increase the transparency of banking operations in terms of increased legal certainty, in particular for uneducated investors investing in debt securities. With regard to the comments made in the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service gave the warnings it had given to Articles 2 and 6. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the bill. In particular, the debate raised the issue of the systemic importance of banks in Slovenia, as the solutions resulting from the directive were intended to ensure that systemically important banks could have sufficient resources at any time to cover potential losses. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendment tabled to Article 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and adopted it. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Edvard Paulič will present to us the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u70	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are deciding on changes and additions to the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act. We have transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the European Directive since the end of 2017, which discusses the classification of unsecured debt instruments in the event of bankruptcy of the bank. It brings unity of rules and an equal assessment of the position of bank creditors in all European Union countries. The absence of harmonised rules at European Union level has in the past created uncertainty for both banks and investors, i.e. holders of subordinated qualifying liabilities of the bank. This made it difficult for bank resolution authorities to use the creditor resolution tool, in particular in the case of cross-border financial groups, where different national rules have to be taken into account, especially since the creditors' funds under bank resolution rules can also be used to cover bank losses, and no creditor should be worse than it would have been in the case of bank bankruptcy. The Directive provides for a new class of bank debt securities classified as prior and non-insured claims but against liabilities under the bank's equity. The proposed amendment also introduces a requirement for issuers of debt securities to establish and publish a list of information on the classification of those instruments in the event of insolvency. This is particularly important for uneducated investors, usually for natural persons, as they will be better acquainted with the risks associated with a specific debt instrument. In view of the experience gained from the last resolution of the banking system, the introduction of greater transparency and information to investors is essential, and we welcome these amendments to the law. In view of the above, we will support the proposal of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented to us by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The amendments to the Banks Rescue and Forced Cessation Act are also about compliance with the complementary European legislation. After the last financial crisis, the European Union has adopted uniform rules for the resolution of banks in difficulty. This system, called the Banking Union, was based to a good extent on Slovenian experience. The rules applicable to the resolution of banks in the European Union, namely for the resolution of banks, set out the procedures that we met in Slovenia in 2013, 2014 and provide that the resolution of banks is primarily carried out by its owners and owners of its shares, and then include, where appropriate, the countries which had to cover the left share of all the losses accumulated by the banks prior to the introduction of these rules. The exact order of responsibility for covering losses is determined by these rules, which Slovenia must also incorporate into its laws. In addition to these rules, it has also laid down for Slovenia information on consumers in the event of purchase of bank securities. In the case of Slovenian holders of subordinated bonds, banks have thus shown that not all holders were aware of the risks arising from such ownership but were mistakenly convinced that the purchase of subordinated bonds acquired secure securities. Many did not realize that they would be treated as co-owners of the bank and would have to cooperate with their money in their resolution. With the introduction of new rules, banks will be obliged to clearly inform consumers of the risks involved in purchasing such securities and to make them aware of the order of securities they would use to solve their problems. In this way, it is sought to prevent uneducated investors from investing their savings in risky investments that are not well-educated. Dearly noted, the previously mentioned banking union was conceived as a single European banking regulation system to prevent new crises and impacts on savers. It's supposed to be made up of three pillars. In addition to the already mentioned rules on bank resolution, there is also a European mechanism for protecting the euro area from debt crises and a third pillar is intended to guarantee bank deposits for all people in the European Union. This third pillar has not yet been established due to opposition from countries that have benefited greatly from the joint appearance. Since these are key measures to protect the savings of people in banks, we also need to move faster. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, with the support of the proposal to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European rules, we also call for the adoption as soon as possible of the missing rules that will protect people, that the Banking Union will not only serve capital markets and bank owners, but will also bring benefits to ordinary people who only use bank services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented to us by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u74	Your Honor! The novelty into the Slovenian legal order translates amendments to the European Directive on the classification of unsecured debt instruments in the event of insolvency. The Directive complements the rules governing the classification of bank liabilities for the purposes of payment in the bankruptcy procedure laid down in the Bank Resolution Directive. It will ensure an equal assessment of the position of the bank’s creditor in all Member States of the European Union. This is important to take into account the key principle that no creditor in the resolution process of the bank should be worse than it would have been in the event of a bankruptcy of the bank. The Directive also lays down the conditions for the creation of a new class of debt securities of subordinated liabilities. With it, a global systemically important bank will be able to meet the requirement to ensure the minimum capital and subordinated liabilities of the bank, which will cover the potential loss of the bank. This is a so-called international standard adopted at global level under the G20. The objective of the standard is to ensure the ability to cover losses and recapitalisation for all global systemically important banks. The standard will help ensure that during and immediately after the procedure critical functions can continue without jeopardising taxpayers' money, public funds or financial stability. The European Union has pledged to include it in its reform of the Banking Union. The need to establish a banking union arose during the financial crisis in 2008 and the sovereign debt crisis that followed it. At that time, it became clear that in the euro area, the problems created by the links between public sector finances and the banking sector could quickly flow across national borders and cause financial shocks in other Member States of the European Union. The amendment of the latter Directive is therefore important for the European Union and the euro area, but how will it affect Slovenia? Important banks or institutions are classified under the criteria of the European Central Bank as banks with a bank total of more than EUR 30 billion and more than 20 % of the gross domestic product or classified among the three largest banks in the country or having a balance sheet of more than EUR 5 billion and having more than 20% of the liabilities in more than one Member State. At the end of 2017 and in 2018 12 banks, 3 savings offices and 3 branches of foreign banks operated in Slovenia. The balance sheet sum of the Slovenian banking system was EUR 37.9 billion at the end of 2017. The largest bank among them is Nova Ljubljanska Banka. It had about EUR 12.7 billion in balance sheet totals. In Slovenia, three banks, NLB, NKBM and Abank were part of a group of important banks in 2017 and 2018. The three banks are therefore important at national level, but they are not relevant at global or global level. The Global Systemic Important Bank is a bank defined as such by the Bank of Slovenia in accordance with the Banking Act and Regulation No 1024/2013 of the European Union. However, its failure or poor business could lead to a systemic risk of global importance. At the level of the European Union or the euro area, in November 2018, 19 banks had such status, of course there were no Slovenian banks. In comparison, let me mention that the balance sheet total of the largest three banks ranges between $2,100 and $2,000,500. Although we do not have such a bank in Slovenia, the content of the directive of the European Union relating to that standard must be transposed into the Slovenian legal order in order to harmonise the law of the European Union. Regardless of the importance of amending the directive for Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the law in the Modern Centre, as we support all measures that will ensure the resilience of the banking system and its sufficient capitalisation. This is important for maintaining the financial stability of the euro area and for the stability of the global financial system.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. By way of example, Sieter will present to us the views of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act defines a new class of debt instruments and places them in the hierarchy of liabilities of the bank or other financial entities in bankruptcy proceedings. The bankruptcy procedure is arranged as follows. First, in the event of bankruptcy, the bank or other entity shall be reimbursed for its priority claims, followed by guaranteed deposits and claims excluded from the write-off measure and claims made on the basis of eligible applications by natural persons and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Unsecured ordinary claims shall then be reimbursed, under which the new class of claims for debt instruments with contractual subordination and initial maturity of at least one year shall be added. Finally, liabilities under capital instruments and subordinated liabilities that do not qualify as capital instruments shall be repaid. It is therefore a matter of fine-tuning the bail-in resolution of banks, which replaced the bailout principle. In the latter case, banks rescue countries and in the first, their owners. Only if the owners of the banks cannot cover the losses can the state intervene. The introduction of the bail-in principle was justified by the European institutions in particular by the argument that the bail-in does not burden taxpayers in contrast to the bail-out. But in the background, there was no concern for taxpayers. The Bail-in principle was introduced after banks of taxpayers in European countries, even in Slovenia, had already been overpaid. In particular, the principle of bail-in is that the resolution and subsequent management of banks in difficulty is withdrawn from the control of national countries and transferred to market mechanisms and institutions at the level of the European Union. Well, the positive side of the Bail-in principle is that the losses of banks are borne by their owners, who are also most responsible for the losses themselves. If the bank takes an excessive risk in lending and is therefore in difficulty, it is logical that most of the loss is taken over by its shareholders, but it is less logical that the shareholders must also be covered by the holders of subordinated bank bonds. The Bank’s new liability hierarchy for bankruptcy claims, which, even before State aid is granted, includes the owners of debt securities or bonds, is therefore questionable. Investors in subordinated bank bonds are not to be mixed with owners, administrations and supervisors of banks. The investors themselves are not to blame for the losses in banks. They don't run out of money, they lend them money by buying bonds, but they don't have any influence on who they're lending money to. These investors do not have an institution of assembly where they could express their dissatisfaction with the management of the bank when it acts in a gambling way, so it is not possible for them to report that the bank has been pushed to the brink of bankruptcy. Investors in bank bonds are not only wealthy individuals but also institutional funds, such as the pension fund. Disposal of these investors in the event of bankruptcy could therefore also financially affect ordinary citizens, who in these funds, for example, save for a safe age. The positive side of the proposed law is the provision that banks and other entities will have to establish and publish publicly a prospectus of issued debt instruments with information on their classification in the event of bankruptcy. In this way investors will be informed in advance of the characteristics of individual debt instruments in which they will invest their money. Therefore, since the amendment to the Rescue and Forced Cessation Act contains both positive and negative salaries, we will abstain from voting in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We are considering the new Law on Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation because the European Commission has committed itself to transpose the European Union internationally into the legal order, at G20 level, a specific requirement regulating the ability to cover losses for global systemically important banks. I would stress, for the global system-wide banks. Listeners, those who follow us will be able to assess for themselves the strength this law will have for the Slovenian banking system. For the purposes of meeting that requirement, a new classification class of unsecured debt claims shall be established. In the event of insolvency in the hierarchy of payments, the new class of non-insured debt claims must be treated for all priority claims and other uninsured claims and against capital instruments and subordinated liabilities. Claims under this class shall meet the conditions laid down in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and shall be: the contractual maturity shall be at least one year, no derivatives or no derivatives, the relevant contractual documentation or the prospectus shall specify how they are paid in the event of bankruptcy. This novelty will therefore be followed by a harmonised hierarchy of liabilities of the bank or another entity to which the insolvency law applies. First, priority claims, e.g. salaries, taxes, secondly, guaranteed deposits under the Deposit Guarantee Scheme Act, thirdly, eligible deposits of natural persons and micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises exceeding EUR 100 000 guaranteed, fourthly, other eligible applications, fifthly, non-eligible applications, thus excluded from the Deposit Guarantee Scheme, e.g. deposits of banks, insurance companies, states, municipalities, pension funds and so on, unsecured ordinary claims, within which a new class is also designated and described, and finally the liabilities of capital instruments such as shares and subordinated liabilities not considered as capital instruments, e.g. subordinated bonds. The proposal provides that the order laid down in this Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to all entities covered by this Act in the ordinary insolvency proceedings. Because of the solutions that we consider acceptable, we will support this bill in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Already Directive 2014/59/EU, the predecessor of the directive before us today, has brought about radical changes in bank resolution. These changes have excluded taxpayers from the range of those charged with bank resolution costs. At that time, the European Union's finance ministers reached a compromise that placed the burden on the owners and creditors of the banks, and only in extreme cases were the taxpayers and the European Crisis Fund. This has led to difficult stories, part of which was the recapitalisation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, NKBM, Banka Celje and Slovenia. We allocated 3.2 billion euros to them, but that was not the case at the time, especially since we had to be led by a higher target, this is the avoidance of threes whose visit to Slovenia could have fatal consequences. The Directive provides for a legal regime under which the order of payment of the bankruptcy liabilities of the bank is defined. In addition, a new class of unsecured debt claims is established. In the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek seems particularly important to us that banks and other entities subject to the Bank's Rescue and Forced Cessation Act will have to establish and publish a list of issued debt instruments. This will not only increase transparency regarding the entity’s classification of claims in the event of its resolution or forcible termination, but will result in greater legal certainty for uneducated investors due to the transparency of the banking system. In the past, we have seen the result of the deception of uneducated investors, as many people have possessed empty promises and promises and, on the other hand, they have certainly been those who have been able to find excuses and refuge in deception, even though they have gone to speculation consciously. All the amendments introduced by the directive seek to form a banking union that provides the euro area with more solid foundations.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The main objective of the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, adopted in June 2016, is to comply with the requirement that the Bank must continuously ensure an adequate amount of capital and qualifying liabilities. The aim of the current law was in particular to ensure that the critical functions of credit institutions continue to be carried out and to prevent more serious negative impacts on the stability of the financial system. It was also intended to protect investors on guaranteed deposits with banks and investors on guaranteed claims against investment firms and to protect the assets and assets of banks. Today, the proposed supplements or legislative solutions do not interfere with its basic purpose but complement it with the transposition of the directive. This provides that, in the event of bankruptcy, the banks shall first pay their prior claims. The amendment also provides for a new class of non-insured debt claims issued by a bank that meet certain conditions. The creation of a new debt class will enable systemically important banks to meet the requirement to have sufficient resources to cover potential losses and recapitalisations. The question arises to what extent investors will purchase such types of instruments according to the level of risk they contain. It is unlikely that banks in Slovenia will issue such instruments to a greater extent. It is important, however, that the risk will be more clearly defined as an obligation is imposed for banks to publicly publish information on the issue of their debt securities, in particular their placing in the hierarchy of liabilities for the purposes of insolvency payments. In this way, in particular, less-educated investors in debt securities whose issuer is a bank will be informed in advance of their properties. This ensures greater transparency and understanding of the conditions and risks associated with a specific debt instrument. The public publication of issuers will provide legal certainty for investing in subordinate financial instruments. For Members of the Desus Group, it is crucial that the legislation on bank resolution and forcible termination with the amended directive pursues the objective that the costs of covering the losses and rescue of banks under the new rules will no longer burden public funds, i.e. the owners of banks. Finally, it will always be possible to use a special bank resolution fund to which all business banks established in the European Union pay their contributions. For these reasons, we will support the proposal of law in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u84	Another good day, all of it! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act. The draft law introduces the rule that the loss of the bank shall be borne first by its shareholders, if not sufficient, as well as by holders of subordinated qualifying bank liabilities. The proposed law states that the cost of bank resolution by this rule no longer burdens taxpayers. That's not necessarily true. In the event that the State is among the shareholders of the bank, it must first cover the loss of the bank. The aim of the law is also to create a new class of unsecured claims for tax instruments intended to meet the requirement of the so-called TLAC. The TLAC requirement ensures that global systemically important banks have at any time the means to cover potential losses and recapitalisation. On the Committee on Finance, Mr State Secretary Dronja also said that we do not have a global system-wide bank in Slovenia. Why, then, do we regulate an area that is not relevant to Slovenia at all? The proposed law also introduces a requirement for banks to establish and publish a list of issued debt instruments. This aims to increase transparency regarding the classification of the entity’s claims in the event of its resolution or forcible termination. Given that the Legislative and Legal Service did not have any significant comments on the proposal for a law and that there was no broader debate on the Committee on Finance, we believe that the proposal for a law is appropriate and that we will therefore vote in favour of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Resolution and Forced Cessation of Banks in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, this law regulates in more detail what happens in the event of bankruptcy of a bank, such as preferential payments. Prior claims, deposits guaranteed, claims excluded from a qualifying undertaking measure shall first be paid on the basis of eligible deposits of natural persons, small enterprises, medium-sized enterprises and so on. In fact, this should ensure that creditors are in the same position in bankruptcy proceedings when banks are rescued. This is important because the bank’s creditors’ assets can be used to cover bank losses only at a level that takes into account the key principle that no creditor in the bank’s resolution process should be worse than it would have been in the event of a bank’s bankruptcy. The matter is addressed to national parliaments primarily because of the future crisis, or if the crisis occurs, it knows exactly how the banks will be resolved if they do, or how they will be paid. Greater transparency and advance investor security are ensured and we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing a single higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the new city. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the decision, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Jerne Šromajer, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Law on Higher Education in its Article 15 stipulates that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the founding act of each public higher education institution, so today we have four different points before you with four different decisions. This is the first one, we are talking about the decision on amendments and the amendment of the Decree establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town. They will follow points for the University of Primorsk, Maribor and the University of Ljubljana. The individual points are the same, so I will repeat myself, I apologize to you in advance, and in certain changes, the individual changes in the decisions differ. When amending the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town there is an amendment in accordance with the Regulation amending the Regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system of education and training which has started to apply since 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment of the decree thus regulates the conversion of the study areas from CLASSIUS-P to CLASSIUS-P-16. Furthermore, the decree is in line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act, which is part of the amendments concerning the Academic Assembly and the Dean. The amendment also provides a clearer record of the duration of the term of the term of office of the Management Board, in view of the systematic unification of the duration of the term of office of the Management Board as a whole, rather than of its individual member. Thus, in accordance with Article 29 of the Law on Institutions, the record clearly defines the duration of the term of office of the members of the Management Board, which is linked to the body and not to its member, and thus lasts four years from the date of the founding meeting, later appointed members, for example if a term of office or anything else expires, and the term of office, as with all other members in each case, also expires within four years of the founding meeting of the Management Board. A short, two-year, term of office is, of course, intended for students, because it is related to their status and to taking into account the duration of the study programmes on which such students are enrolled. These are all the amendments envisaged by the proposed amendment to the Decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good day again! At its 3rd meeting, on 10 January, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing a stand-alone higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town, which the Government submitted to the Council for adoption. The deadline for the amendment has expired on 4 January and the amendments have been tabled by the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Dean of the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi Grad and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Štromajer, said in the introduction that in the section of the study areas they turn from CLASSIUS-P to CLASSIUS-P-16 in accordance with the Regulation amending the Regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system of education and training which began to apply on 1 January last year. In view of the systematic uniform application of the term of office of the Management Board as a whole, it is clearer to define the duration of the term of office of the Administrative Board, which is linked to the Authority and not to its members, and to elect a student representative for 2 years. The decree is also in line with the amendment of the Higher Education Act 2016 in the work on how the Academic Assembly and the Dean are regulated. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made some comments to it. However, her representative explained that the amendments tabled to the proposed decision took due account of most of the comments made in the written opinion. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 4, 6 and 7 of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the draft decree together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Milan Brglez will present to us the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At this regular meeting, the National Assembly shall consider 4 proposals for resolutions amending and supplementing decisions establishing or reshaping 3 universities and 1 higher education institution. As these are similar amendments that align the text of the decrees with the existing legal and sub-legislative acts, we will present our position in the Group of Social Democrats on all the proposals on this agenda item. Let me point out from the outset that we will support the proposals of the decrees under 11, 12, 13 and 14 points. As has already been said, it is a matter of aligning decisions with other legal acts and with the actual state of affairs. It shall be subject to compliance with the new classification system of education and training, which shall be in force and applicable from 1 January 2018. There is also a clearer record of the duration of the mandates of the Management Boards, which is newly set for the Committee as a whole. Most other amendments and additions to the decrees of individual universities or higher education institutions are technical or nomological in nature, such as the recording of university members in alphabetical order or the recording of the title of the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology and the Faculty of Computer Science and Informatics, which are not appropriate in the current text of the decree. The amendments and additions were consistent with all relevant stakeholders. Following the consideration of the motions for decrees at the meeting of the parent working body, the most debate was on the subject of amendments to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Ljubljana. Social Democrats regret that the alignment of the study areas of the University of Ljubljana with the new current classification has become a field of political controversy, although it is an autonomous decision of the University of Ljubljana that the Theological Faculty is implementing the field of education and teacher education, the Government agreed with the 2012 decision. The position of Social Democrats on public and secular education as a fundamental value is known and unchanged and we are ready to defend it again and again, but the point of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana is not a place to discuss the ideological neutrality or neutrality of the Slovenian educational space. This is a question of how to hold a second thematic meeting of the competent committee, while a concrete proposal for a decree first points to the need to consider the appropriateness of the application provided for in Article 15 of the Higher Education Act for the National Assembly in the process of adopting the Act of Establishment of the Public Higher Education Institute. Since, under the current legislation, the National Assembly adopts the founding acts of public higher education and other institutions, but is in fact bound to the autonomy of the university and the previous decisions of the Government, the Social Democrats will confirm all proposals for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present to us the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decree establishing the Faculty of Information Studies in New Town, then the position on the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the recasting of the University of Maribor, the position on the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the recast of the University of Ljubljana. Given that these and the next three points are very similar changes to the decisions concerning the Independent Higher Education Institute in Novo mesto and the three universities in Maribor, Primorska and Ljubljana, in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we provide a united view of all four acts. In the proposals before us, it is more or less about harmonising legal acts in view of the already existing actual situation and regarding college titles, changing their names, adding study areas, converting the study areas according to the CLASSIUS system. In addition to that individual decrees, they provide an even clearer record of, or a systematic alignment of, the term of office of the Management Board of the higher education institution or university and the shorter term of the student’s term of office. We are not opposed to these changes in our Group of Members in substance, so we are predicting support for all the four proposed acts. We note, however, the futility of what the National Assembly is obliged to carry out in the process of certifying these acts. It acts only as an apparatus of a technical post of decision-making festival, as it only confirms the decisions already taken by the university and has already given consent to it by the Government as the founder. As pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the system for determining additional study areas is legally inappropriate. It is unusual that a hierarchically higher legal act, which in this case is, is subsequently aligned with the statute of the university. It also follows from that opinion that the National Assembly is not only a formal observer and a confirmer of the decisions already taken, but also has the opportunity to make a substantive decision on the amendments to the law. It is also unclear from the current legislation what would have been or would have been the result if the National Assembly had made a different decision than the one previously adopted by the Senate of the University and the Government. The university would probably stumble at Article 58 of the Constitution, which guarantees the autonomy of the university, and we can therefore find that the current regime is urgently needed to be reformed. Therefore, we expect from the competent ministry regulatory changes that will clearly determine the competence of all stakeholders in the decision-making of the study areas. This is certainly a matter that will have to be resolved as soon as possible. In the Desus Group we will give support to all four proposed acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree have not been tabled, we will be taking a decision on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a decision amending and supplementing the decision reshaping the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Jerne Štromajer, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As with the previous decision, this proposal for a regulation amending and supplementing the Decree recasting the University of Maribor is primarily intended to comply with the Regulation amending the Regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system of education and training which entered into force with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment of the decree regulates the conversion of the study areas from CLASSIUS-P to CLASSIUS-P-16. The amendment also brings a clearer duration of the term of office of the Management Board, as in the previous one, due to the systematic unification of the duration of the terms of office of the members of the Management Board as a whole, rather than of an individual member, in accordance with Article 29 of the Law on Institutions. The same as in the previous decree speaks of two years for the duration of the student's term of office. However, the second amendment, which departs from the previous one, is in particular an amendment to the decree relating to the recording of the English names of members and of the university and there are no other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its 3rd session, on 10 January 2019, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decree on the recasting of the University of Maribor, submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly. The deadline for the amendment has expired on 4 January and the amendments have been tabled by the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Štromajer and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, participated in the work of the Committee. The Secretary of State initially said that, in the decision of the study area, they were converted from CLASSIUS-P to CLASSIUS-P-16 in accordance with the Regulation amending the Regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system of education and training which began to apply on 1 January last year. The proposal for a decree provides a clearer record of the duration of the term of office members in accordance with the Law on Institutions and the shorter term of the student mandate. The English names of members and universities shall also be entered in each act. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view and has made some comments. However, her representative explained that the majority of the amendments tabled took due account of the comments made in their written opinion. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 5 and 6 of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all the provisions of the Decree together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree have not been tabled, we will be taking a decision on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing the University of Primorska. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Jerne Štromajer, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u100	Vice President, thank you for your word. As with the previous two decrees, the proposal for a decision establishing the University of Primorsk is primarily aimed at harmonising the conversion of the study areas from CLASSIUS-P to CLASSIUS-P-16. However, what is different from the previous decree is that the Faculty of Health Sciences also adds to the field of education and education of teachers, which has already been agreed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the decree. The amendment also provides a clearer record of the duration of the mandates of the Management Board, in view of the systematic simplification of the duration of the term of office of the Management Board as a whole and not of its individual member, as stated or as provided for in Article 29 of the Law on Institutions. Even in this case, it is of course a shorter term in the case of students, as I have already explained in other decrees, early. The amendment of the decree also brings a different record of the order of the members, after the alphabet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report to the committee, I give the floor to the mags. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you. At its 3rd meeting, on 10 January, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorska, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The deadline for the amendment has expired on Friday 4 January and the amendments have been tabled by the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jernej Štromajer, Rector of the University of Primorska and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the committee. The Secretary of State initially said that, in the decision of the study area, they were converted from CLASSIUS-P to CLASSIUS-P-16 in accordance with the Regulation amending the Regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system of education and training which began to apply on 1 January last year. The proposal for a decree provides a clearer record of the duration of the term of office members in accordance with the Law on Institutions and the shorter term of the student mandate. The Faculty of Health Sciences adds the field of education and teacher education to which the Government has already given its consent at its meeting on 20 November 2018. At the same time, there is a record of the order of the members according to the alphabet. Vice-President of the University of Primorska Professor Boris Kavur said that the study area of the Faculty of Education of the University of Primorsk was also changing on the basis of the Government's decision. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made some comments to it. Her representative explained that the majority of the amendments tabled took due account of the comments made on the proposed decision and pointed out her comment on the question whether the decision should be supplemented at all, given that the decree itself authorised universities to do so by the Statute. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 4 and 5 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the draft decree together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree have not been tabled, we will be taking a decision on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a decision amending the decision to reshape the university in love. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To complement the explanation of the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Jerne Štromajer, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President. Messengers and Members! We are in the last of four decrees of our public universities or public higher education institutions. Also in the decision amending the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana, it is first of all a change in classification, namely the conversion of the study areas from CLASSIUS-P to CLASSIUS-P-16. The new regulation on methodology and classification system in this area has, we know, entered into force with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As with the other decisions we are amending today, there is also a decree amending the duration of the terms of office of the members of the Management Board for reasons of, as we know, systemic enforcement and unification in relation to Article 29 of the Institutes Act, it is said that someone who becomes a member during the term of office will remain a member of the Governing Board until the end of the four-year term of office from the founding session. Furthermore, this decree also brings the correct record of the members, the Academy of Fine Arts and Design, at the same time taking into account the change in the title of the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology and the Faculty of Computer Science and Informatics, and also brings about a change in the writing of the English names of members and universities. Now, to that point, I believe which will be the most controversial in the presentation and which we have discussed most on the committee. At the same time, the decree adds study areas to individual members who have already been agreed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the decree and adds certain other study areas to each Member State. The committee, as you know, had the most debates and speeches about the fact that the Government, through this decree or the National Assembly, by this decree added the possibility of extending the study areas of one of the members of the University of Ljubljana, I repeat, one of the members of the University of Ljubljana, namely the Theological Faculty, whose founder is like all other countries, the Republic of Slovenia, with problems of educational science and teacher education at the Theological Faculty. In doing so, let me make it clear that the agreement to extend this study area to the Theological Faculty was not given by this government, but not by the Ministry, but by the fact that it is perfectly legal that there will be no error, in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 6 of the recasting decree of the University of Ljubljana, which was granted by the Government on 29 March 2012. Thus, at its 8th regular meeting on 29 March 2012, the Government gave this agreement to extend the study area to one of the members of the University of Ljubljana. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that, in accordance with Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, universities are autonomous, and so, with the consent of the Government of the Theological Faculty, they added this field of study, which does not mean that the Ministry or Government would in any way deviate from the world-renowned lazily public school or secular organisation in our public school. Our position on this is clear: we advocate lazi public school and secular society. This does not mean, on the other hand, that, in accordance with all the acts and with the agreement of the Government, whatever it has already been, the Government has, in accordance with the law and decree adopted by this National Assembly, given its consent to this field of study, and that this study area of this Faculty has already been in the current Statute of the University of Ljubljana and that, by any non-acceptance or any other action of the National Assembly, and also the Government, with regard to the autonomy of the University, we cannot change the existing situation since the 8th regular session of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 March 2012. However, I agree with one of my predecessors for this speech that, when this arrangement is, say, a study area in which the Government gives consent or which colleges or universities begin to enforce in accordance with their constitutional autonomy, post-festums are regulated in the National Assembly, an unfavourable situation in which you are Members and Members of Parliament. However, I would like to point out that both the decree and the law stipulating that such an order of events is adopted in the National Assembly, but we are more than prepared at the Ministry to discuss this in the amendment of the Higher Education Act, that we will come to a slightly more meaningful conclusion if you want, or otherwise, the arrangements for the granting of consent and the legalization of various changes to our public universities in accordance with the law and the decision we have. As it is said, the decree tolerates the changes presented, in particular as regards the classification of investments, the duration of the board of directors, the unification of titles, names and the existing situation in the field of study areas already in the Statute of the University of Ljubljana. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its 3rd session, on 10 January 2019, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The deadline for the amendment has expired on 4 January and the amendments have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups within the deadline. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jernej Štromajer, Vice-President of the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Barbara Novak, and representative of the Law and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Secretary of State initially said that, in the decision of the study area, they were converted from CLASSIUS-P to CLASSIUS-P-16 in accordance with the Regulation amending the Regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system of education and training which began to apply on 1 January last year. The proposal for a decree provides a clearer record of the duration of the term of office members in accordance with the Law on Institutions and the shorter term of the student mandate. The correct record of the members of the University of Ljubljana, the Academy of Fine Arts and Design shall be consolidated, taking into account changes in the titles of the Faculty of the Members, the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology and the Faculty of Computer Science and Informatics, and the recording of the English names of the University and its members shall be regulated. He said that the draft decree also added the study areas that are already in the Statute of the University of Ljubljana and explained the legal arrangements for teaching teachers at the Theological Faculty. The provision of the fifth paragraph of Article 6 of the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana provides that additional study areas in individual Member States classified in accordance with the Regulation shall be determined by the University of Ljubljana in agreement with the Founder by statute. The Founder's Rights are exercised by the Government, which, at its 8th regular meeting on 29 March 2012, gave consent to the extension of the study areas of the Faculty of the University of Ljubljana. Thus, the existing situation is transferred to the decree. The president of the University of Ljubljana explained that the latter is completely autonomous in regulating the study areas of any member of the University of Ljubljana. All she needs is the consent of the founder, this is the government, and in the field of Theological Faculty she obtained this consent. It is a programme already under way and an area already established under the Statute, and formalism also makes it a decision. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view and has made some comments. Her representative explained that the amendments tabled took due account of the comments made on the proposed decision and pointed out that there was no indication which areas of study were precisely added to the decree. In the debate on Article 3 of the motion for a decree, the proposed amendment to the Committee's amendment was proposed by the Left Group, whereby they wanted to delete the "educational science and teacher education" in the twenty-first indent. Their representative said, inter alia, that the extension of the study areas of the Theological Faculty to educational sciences and teacher education did not exist in the public interest, so training of teaching staff in the Theological Faculty was not appropriate in his opinion, as there were already institutions that were educating teaching staff, while such training would be contrary to the principle of secular and value-neutral education. The Committee's amendment was not adopted after the end of the discussion. However, other members and members of the Committee felt that it should not interfere with the autonomy of the university and that the legislation under consideration had already obtained the consent of the founder and was already in conformity with the statute and was being implemented. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 5 and 6 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and to the title of the draft resolution. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the draft decree together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u107	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present to us the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you. Your Honor! Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that state universities and state universities are autonomous. This autonomy has also been reflected in the Higher Education Act, which clearly stipulates that universities and independent higher education institutions established by the Republic of Slovenia act in accordance with the principles of autonomy, which, inter alia, provides for the freedom of research, artistic creation and knowledge transfer, the self-regulation of the internal organisation and the operation of the statute in accordance with the law, and the production and adoption of study and scientific research programmes. This freedom is not absolute and infinite, but according to our assessment, the attacks on the amendments to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana in the work relating to the Faculty of Theology are excessive and especially unnecessary. While we understand that some, once and for all, feed on them over and over again, a healthy view of this problem at least this time does not allow us to do so. Theological Faculty, a two-matter teaching program that combines studies of theology and history, archaeology, philosophy and several other similar courses at the Faculty of Philosophy, has been legally and legitimately in accordance with the law and the Statute of the University of Ljubljana for eight years. Such a route already existed before the Bologna Reformation, which is some time before some remembered to build overly ideological structures, which they are proud of to this extent, so that they can truly understand their conduct as the defense of a lay country. The University of Ljubljana is a public university, this year it will celebrate the celebrated 100th anniversary, the founder of the Theological Faculty is also a state, not a church. In fact, the real situation is such that the extension of the study area of the University of Ljubljana was decided on its own because the Constitution and the law give it the option. For these purposes, it has completely amended its statute in accordance with the rules and has been given the consent of the Government since 2012. Facts that can't be overlooked. Six students, three of whom are expected to complete a master's degree programme, do not in our opinion threaten secularity and the laity of education. More than obviously, the hyperproduction of theologians and their intrusion into primary and secondary schools has not yet taken place and we do not see in our parliamentary group any valid reasons and motives for this to happen in the future. At the same time, today's change to the Theological Faculty in no way offers the possibility of unbridled accreditation of new curricula in the field of education and education, and the decision in question is not at all the document where the education of teachers is required to teach individual subjects and content. Some are so overly concerned. The non-principal coalition, as some have called us, is still in principle and, once again, by confirming the decision in question, I repeat, does not jeopardize the laity of the public school. But today we are witnessing another experiment, this is an attempt at endangering academic autonomy, which is not a good way forward. A lot of noise for nothing, actually. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we will support amendments and amendments to the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. Amendments and additions to the decrees of universities, colleges and so forth seem to be part of the formality that comes on the agenda of the National Assembly. It is about introducing new programmes or technical changes, such as the transfer of the head office of a university or some institute from one address to another. Science develops according to its internal logic, regulates relations within itself, and from here comes the idea of the autonomy of the university. However, specific cases show that our arrangement is confused and inconsistent. On the one hand, the National Assembly confirms what is already being done, on the other hand, we have the constitutional autonomy of the university and therefore the National Assembly must not interfere with it at all. Therefore, today's treatment of these decisions is illustrative of some of the problematic aspects of the regulation affecting higher education. But we have not invented this schizophrenic procedure in Levica, we are only faced with it, the decree is on the agenda of the National Assembly and Members have the right and duty to make a substantive assessment of it. In addition to technical changes, the specific decree extends the study areas of the Theological Faculty in Ljubljana through an educational science and education programme for teachers. In Levica, we have already made clear on the Committee that this enlargement is unacceptable, confirms and legitimises the intrusion of partial interest and a certain global view into public education, which is intended to aim for visual neutrality and which is to be universally accessible. The possibility that the Theological Faculty, without additional laity education, train teachers who can also teach subjects such as civic and domestic education and other optional subjects in primary schools threatens the principle of public lay education and the principle of separation between religious communities and the state. From the pedagogical staff trained in the framework of the Catholic faculty, whose great chancellor himself is the Ljubljana archbishop of metropolis, we cannot expect secular and valuable neutral teaching work. There is a big difference between teachers of such and different attitudes teaching in public schools and between teachers being educated by an institution that is de facto part of the Roman Catholic Church. Some of the teachers are religious, others are not, some are a little bit more left-handed, others are on the right-hand side. The fact is that each teacher has his own beliefs and views, and this part is not problematic. The problem is, however, that teachers will be trained by a college that is declared positioning on the side of the Roman Catholic Church and the triune god. Like I said yesterday, it's not just the woods, the fares want our children. In Levica, we were left alone to deal with this problematic decision on the committee, apparently at today's meeting. Allegedly advanced political parties, which had recently spoken against this enlargement, wished the Committee their words and decree in parallel with the swearing of the principles of lay education. The worst part is that even Minister Pikalo, under which this decree is confirmed, said a few years ago, will quote: “On the one hand, since the time of Mary Teresa, they have been fighting to completely separate the school and the church, and now slowly in two decades in Slovenia the church is returning directly to the school system. Be careful, it is not about isolated steps, it is about some random things, but about a long-term well-thought-out strategy." End of quote. It seems that SD Minister Pikalo himself has become a free tool for this strategy since taking over the position of the first school student in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The proposal for a decree on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana will, of course, be supported in Novi Slovenija. This is just a harmonisation of the decree with the Statute of the University of Ljubljana. The decree did not extend the activities of the Theological Faculty, the agreement for these study programmes, the education and education of teachers, already received the faculty in 2012, and a few years ago, Parliament, at the initiative of the Left, rejected the adoption of this decree. The autonomy of the University is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and by the Higher Education Act, and in this way Levica even proposes non-constitutional proposals when she rejects the adoption of this Decision. We're sorry. He also uses hate speech, for example in a letter that even this item of the agenda was intended to be postponed or removed from the agenda of the previous meeting of the Education Committee. The letter is offensive, disregards the facts and is even irrelevant, a position even unconstitutional and illegal, and interferes with the autonomy of the university. Theological Faculty is the first university in Ljubljana, founded in 1595, according to the Encyclopædia Britannica. In 1919 theological Faculty co-founder of the University of Ljubljana, one of the four universities. So this year they celebrate 100 years, and for a gift some would like to erase it. The letter is also very insulting, discriminatory to professors who are top professors, internationally recognized experts who teach at this university. In 2015, the Council of Europe adopted two resolutions, Resolution 2076 and Recommendation 2080, which states that the church and church institutions are part of civil society and contribute to the development of an inclusive social environment. And if we look at Slovenian history, Slovenian literature, then we know that it was the priests who enlightened the Slovenian nation. First Slovenian Book, 1550, Primož Trubar, priest, otherwise Protestant, but priest. Dalmatin's Bible, 1584, completes the translation, which puts Slovenian language among civilized languages. I'm going to put a few more words on Valentine's Day, because this year we're marking 200 years of his death. The first Slovenian newspaper of Lublanska novine, 1797, was not only a priest, he was also the first to publish the Slovenian poetry collection, 1806, Songs for Temptation; Cooking beeches, though translated by him, but still, 1799; Babishing or obstetrical wolf for grandmothers, translation 1818; the first textbooks in Slovenian in 1811 during the Illyrian provinces, which was why, after Austria regained power in our towns, he was also suspended and retired as a teacher. He was educated at a French school, in Christian schools. He's a beginner of mountain poetry, of the Vršac. Thanks to Zois and the Guide, he even became the Triglav symbol of Slovenia. And last but not least, he was Prešern's teacher. So “injurious” was the influence of a priest on Slovenian intellectuals. Not to mention other poets and important people. I will expose Pedro Opeko, who studied at the Ljubljana Faculty of Theology, from my places comes the great mathematician Yuri Vega, who was first educated by priests and recognized his talent and sent to higher schools. So, it would not hurt some to repeat history a little bit, and not so demeaning the works of priests, education and the Theological Faculty, which is co-founder of the University of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree have not been tabled, we will be taking a decision on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is a draft resolution on the Security Programme and the development of a range of Scottish caves for the period 2019-2023. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Scottish Cave Regional Park is an important member of the global network of protected areas. This area is important because of the geological, geomorphological and hydrological characteristics of Crassus, its biodiversity and natural values and cultural landscapes at local, national and international level. It has the status of a wider protected area of the regional park under Slovenian legislation, the status of a protected area under European law, the real Natura 2000 area, and three important definitions at international level, that is the world heritage of Unesco, the Ramsar site, the biospheric area of the MAB. The programme for the protection and development of Škocjanska Cave Park is, according to its content, a management plan for the protected area, which is a programme act to determine development guidelines, the way in which the protection, use and management of the protected area are carried out. The Agenda for Protection and Development sets out more detailed guidelines for the protection of natural values in the protected area, taking into account the needs of the development of the local population. The programme of protection and development is the basis for the annual work programmes of the manager of the Park Škocjanska Cave. The main objectives of the Agenda for Protection and Development are: to preserve the Scottish Caves and the Second Underworld, to maintain a favourable state of natural values, animal and plant species and habitat types, to participate in the protection of cultural heritage, to develop environmentally friendly park visits and to raise awareness of the park, to strengthen the involvement of the local population in the development of activities and activities in the park, to strengthen the role of the park manager in an influential and transitional area. Within the objectives are the tasks and activities of the Škocjanska Cave Park and the effectiveness of the implementation of the protection and development programme will be monitored through indicators. In the coming five-year period, Škocjanska Cave Park plans a circus of 19 million revenue, of which 2.5 million from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, 15 million from the non-public source of public service, these are admissions, and 1.5 million from structural funds projects, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Edward Paulic. Mr. Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u116	For an explanation, Mr Paulič is absent and I replace him as Vice-President. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 5th session. 1. 2019 as a parent working body, considered the draft resolution on the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Škocjan Cave Park for the period 2019-2023 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. An additional explanation for the motion for a resolution was provided by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Aleš Prijon, on behalf of the applicant. He stressed that the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Park of Škocjanska Cave is, according to its content, a management plan for the protected area, establishing development guidelines, how to implement protection, use and management of the protected area. It sets out more detailed guidelines for the protection of natural values in the protected area, taking into account the development needs of the local population. He pointed out that the Skocjanska Cave Regional Park is an important member of the global network of protected areas. This area is important because of the geological, geomorphological and hydrological characteristics of Crassus, its biodiversity and natural values and cultural landscapes at local, national and international level. He stressed that the core of the Škocjanska Cave Protection and Development Programme was the following objectives: preservation of the Škocjan caves and other underground world; preservation of the favourable state of natural values, animal and plant species and habitat types; participation in the protection of cultural heritage; development of environmental park visits; and awareness of the park; strengthening the involvement of the local population in the development of activities and activities in the park; and strengthening the role of the park manager in an influential and transitional area. The programme of protection and development of the Škocjanska Cave Park is the basis for the annual programmes of work of the manager of the Škocjanska Cave Park. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that certain comments were made to the motion for a resolution of a nomotechnical nature, which were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The representative of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a resolution or programme for the protection and development of the Park of the Škocjan Cave for the next five years, while also evaluating positively the work of the Škocjanska Cave Public Institute. The Committee adopted, without discussion, the amendments of the coalition groups to Chapters 2 and 5 and then voted on and adopted all the chapters of the motion for a resolution together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Andrey Reich to present the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Darij Krajčič will present to us the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! The legal basis for today's resolution is the Skocjan Cave Regional Park Act and the Nature Conservation Act. The resolution was drawn up by the park manager, a public institution, coordinated with the Ministry of the Interior and also with other ministries concerned by this issue. The key objectives of the park are nature protection, protection of cultural heritage and sustainable development of the area. There are many different statuses in the park, namely the UNESCO area, Natura 2000, the area of natural values, the area of cultural heritage and also the area of MAB, this is Man and Biodiversity. It is one of the typical protected areas of conservation of nature and protection of cultural heritage. For many years, the park management has shown a good involvement in the local environment, while ensuring the protection of nature and cultural heritage. The analysis of the status of the resolution in question shows that the institution is also financially stable and that it perfectly combines public revenues with non-disclosures, i.e. market activity. Good involvement in the local environment is key to the success of the insurance area. Therefore, in addition to the legal basis, the work of employees is crucial. The Public Institute's collective performs this task well, and the present resolution provides development grounds for similar behaviour in the future. We want the collective to follow the resolution, adopt it and become part of its daily work. The operation of the public institution in the park is varied, it deals with the preservation of the Scottish caves and other underground world, the preservation of the natural values of animal and plant species and habitat types. They also participate in the protection of cultural heritage, develop environmentally friendly park visits and promote awareness in the park. But they're not doing this in an empty space, they're doing it with people, which is much harder than if the area were unoccupied. The additional component is also private property of most land. The operator shall also strengthen its role in the influential area and also throughout the entire area and also throughout the Man and Biodiversity area, as defined by Unesco. Operation in the entire IAB area where the park area is just the central area is very important. They are characterised by the popularisation of sustainable development, human coexistence and nature, which connects the expression MAB itself. The provisions of Unesco and MAB are periodically checked, so it is necessary to work at all times to comply with the criteria. All these activities are best provided within a public institution that successfully combines public revenues with revenue from market activities. Public revenues are both incomes from our national budget and from the European Union budgets. In the view of our parliamentary group, this is the Marjana Sarca Group, the key challenge of the park is to determine the portability for the visit of the park, and it must not be the main guide for revenue. If this component prevails, the relevance of the existence of a public institution is also questioned, since its objective is not and must not be the greatest income or profit. We therefore suggest that they pay particular attention to this matter to the park manager and the department. We are convinced that the resolution provides a good basis for the development of the park, the influential area and the MAP area and the park manager, so we will also support it. However, when limiting entry or determining the load capacity, we propose that they also switch to the Internet remote registration of visitors, as they do in some parks, and that they do not need to be in the West, even in the East. And when the load capacity is reached, it is simply not possible to go to the park. Similarly, in the Tatra Park, they have an entrance from the Polish side of Zakopane. We also propose to the Ministry of Justice to consider extending the resolution, because in our view this deadline is now relatively short and is often dealt with in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although Slovenia is a superficially small country, it is rich in the remarkable natural and cultural monuments of the world's reputation and importance. In our small space, we overcome truly extraordinary natural and cultural pearls, which are recognized not only at home but also wider in the world. One such natural and at the same time cultural pearls is undoubtedly Park Škocjanska Cave, which is included in Unesc's World Heritage List and has the status of a protected area. The entry of the Škocjan caves in Unesc's World Heritage List binds the country and all of us to preserve and protect this natural and cultural landmark. From 1999 onwards, the Škocjanska caves and areas have been managed by the Public Institute Park Škocjanska Cave, which was established by the Special Act on the Skocjanska Cave Regional Park. The motion for a resolution adopted today is the basis for the annual work programmes of the manager of the Park Škocjanska Cave, while the resolution is also the basis for guiding the development and operation of the park, while also laying the groundwork for regional and local documents in the field of economic, social, cultural, environmental and spatial development. In our parliamentary group we welcome the active involvement of local communities and the local population in the development and activities of the park. Together, we must be aware that mass tourism can be a threat to our park. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we welcome the objectives that will aim to establish and maintain an environment that is friendly to the park, to the surrounding population and, after all, to the visitors of the park. This year, the park celebrates 200 years since the caves were open to the public and visitors. Just this year, when we celebrate such a high and venerable jubilee, our lobsters discovered new trenches and halls in the Scottish Caves network a few days ago. Another proof that in our small country we are overcoming the cultural and natural pearls of world value and at the same time individuals who in our case make caveats at the highest level. Members of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the draft resolution on the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Park of the Škocjanska Cave for the period 2019-2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected choir! In the past, Scottish caves were of great importance to humans, as archaeological findings show that they are already in the 4th century. p.m. C.E. caves served as dwellings. Today, the Park of Škocjanska Caves represents a unique network of natural and cultural heritage, which includes a characteristic and unrepeatable karst landscape. The Scottish caves were listed in Unesc's World Heritage list in 1986 because of their exceptionalness, and in 2004 the regional park was also included on Unesc's list of Biosphere Reserves of the IAB. Due to the exceptional importance of the nature and environmental protection area vis-à-vis society, it is also necessary to manage it effectively and carefully. That is the need, however, for today's motion for a resolution, which, according to its content or content, sets out a plan for the management of the protected area and sets out the vision and mission of the park. The programme itself covers a comprehensive assessment of the situation in the park and in the affected area of the park and also sets the objectives of protection and development. In the SMC Group, we welcome the resolution on the Programme of Protection and Development of the Park of Škocjanska Cave, and we are confident that this document will provide an appropriate regulatory framework for treating this Slovenian pearl with care and efficiency. This is particularly important in all the challenges facing the park itself. If listed: spatial arrangements in the immediate vicinity, climate change and pollution and, last but not least, tourism. Although a large part of the revenue of the public service is derived from its own activities or from visitors, particular attention should be paid to this, since the protection of natural and cultural heritage must not be subordinated to tourism activities. It is also necessary to ensure that any pollution of the river is avoided. In doing so, I am referring to the extraction of toxic substances from the Globovnik dump into the flow of the River River. All the studies carried out so far also indicate that the rehabilitation of the Globovnik landfill is necessary. With all of us, we are pleased to note that at the Ministry of Environment and Space they are already preparing an agreement between the municipality and the Public Institute of Park Škocjanska Caves on a common approach to the rehabilitation of the landfill. In view of the fact that we will mark the 200th anniversary of the visit to the Škocjan Caves and that more people visit them every year, we appeal to the management of the Institute to ensure that all services that are essential to the pleasant, safe and environmentally-friendly experience of visitors, starting with the hospitality offer, are properly promoted by the park and its surroundings to the general public. At the same time, we see a great deal of untapped potential in enhanced cooperation with Kobilna Lipica in all areas. The fact that two new trenches were discovered in the Scottish caves this week testifies to the fact that it is a truly large underground system that deserves special care. We will therefore, of course, support the motion for a resolution in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u124	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Scottish caves are a unique cave online with great plant and animal diversity and rich cultural heritage. The entire protected area is also part of the Natura 2000 network and an ecologically important area. However, all the natural values in the park are of national importance and an internationally recognised area of global importance and therefore the responsibility of the State to maintain them is even greater and more important. They are also a natural phenomenon of extreme global value. World and Cultural Heritage was listed under the Convention on World Heritage in 1986. It is therefore an extraordinary natural gift that Slovenians must be proud of, and it is our common duty to treat it with great responsibility. At the same time in Nova Slovenija we note that our registered archaeological sites are constantly threatened by new construction operations, and on the river river in the cave there are still foams, whose origin is not yet explained, and the river has a strong smell. This may indicate the pollution of the river, which may have a negative impact on underground animals, not only the Scottish caves, but the entire underground stream of the river. Waste water collection and treatment for the majority of settlements in the affected period of the park has not yet been regulated. Since the implementation of the Law on the Regional Park of the Škocjanska Cave, or the launch of the Public Institute of the Park of Škocjanska Cave, there has been obvious progress in the protected area, for which, in the first place, the founders of the public institution and, in particular, the employees of the public institution, who successfully fulfil the basic mission of the regional park, are responsible. In addition to the successful use of European funds and a large number of park visitors, and thus the achievement of higher revenues from their own public service activities, the founder shall also demonstrate the necessary care for the operation of the park by providing budgetary resources. The public institution by implementing sustainable measures contributes to the preservation of the Škocjan Cave and by successfully involving the local population in its activities, to the development of the entire community in the region of the regional park. Despite the fact that the Scottish Cave visits between 130 000 and 170 000 visitors annually, the country's share of 2 million and a half euros in five years is low. In the past 5-year period, this park has provided 81% of its own resources for the performance of its tasks. Here it would be necessary to reflect on the example of Postojna Caves to grant concession also for Park Škocjanska Caves. The management objectives resulting from the resolution shall preserve the Scottish Caves and the other underworld, preserve the favourable state of natural values, animal and plant species and habitat types, and develop environmentally friendly visits and awareness-raising about the park. The resolution strengthens the involvement of the local population in the development of activities and activities in the park and strengthens the role of the park manager in an influential and transitional area, so in New Slovenia we will support the Proposal for a Resolution or Programme for the Protection and Development of the Park of Škocjanska Cave.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u126	Your Honors are here! The Skocjan Cave Regional Park is one of the most beautiful Slovenian pearls and a monument that is listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. The park is characterised by a wide variety of plant and animal species and habitat types, many of which are protected, rare or even endangered. The park is located in Natura 2000, the biosphere area of Kras, with unique underground wetlands in the Škocjan Caves. The park features natural beauty and for its natural and aesthetic values, we can thank nature in the first place. However, without hard work, clearly set goals and focus on achieving them, it would only remain so. For the park to live and function well, good planning is also worthy, among other things. Quality management of the park and excellent results are the fruit of the professional subordination of the employees and the dedication with which they carry out their work. After all, concern for conservation of nature, commitment to employment, and quality work were reflected in the number of visitors, as more and more people visit the park each year. Such in-depth plans are thus welcome not only from a short - term perspective but also from a far - reaching perspective. Only good developmental orientations, a clear vision and focus on achieving the objectives can truly guarantee that natural values and cultural heritage continue to be properly maintained and can be enjoyed by our inventors. The report that we have been able to read is well worked out and the content is transparently classified in content sets. It serves us with more general characteristics and characteristics of the Škocjan Caves, as well as with more detailed descriptions and assessments of the conditions. In particular, the chapter on the objectives of protection and development and how to achieve these objectives is commendable. In the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the proposal for a resolution on the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Škocjan Cave Park for the period 2019-2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The main mission of the Škocjanska Cave regional park is to preserve nature, cultural landscape and create development opportunities. This mission is demonstrated by the fact that the park is recognised as an important part of the global network of protected areas due to the geological, geomorphological and hydrological characteristics of beauty, its biodiversity and natural values and cultural landscapes at local, national and international level. Not only are we aware of this in our country, but the inestimable value of the park is also recognised at international level, because the park is declared part of the world heritage of UNESCO, it has the status of a protected area, not only under Slovenian legislation, but also European legislation, and 20 years ago the Scottish caves were listed as the world-important wetlands of the Ramsar Convention as the first underground wetland in the world at all. In order to protect this extremely important area, the Act on the Regional Park of the Škocjanska Cave was adopted years ago, which, in addition to the Nature Conservation Act, serves as the basis for the preparation of the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Škocjanska Cave Park. This programme is, by its content, a plan for the management of the protected area and contains a description and comprehensive assessment of the state of the park, the situation in the affected area of the park and sets out the objectives of protection and development and the way these are implemented. At the same time, it also sets out ways to monitor the effectiveness of the implementation of this programme. The Skocjan Cave public park plans to implement the programme over the period 2019-2023 some less than 19 million funds or between €3.7 and 3.8 million annually. These funds will be obtained from the public administration from the state budget, from funds obtained through its own activities such as admissions and other resources such as the budget of municipalities and European funds. All those who have visited this park can be regarded as positive by the work of the Park Škocjanska Cave Public Institute, and this five-year programme can also be described as well prepared. The good work of employees in this public institution is reflected in visible progress in the protected area. Employees are obviously also successful in drawing on European funds, and they are also successful in promoting the park, which is reflected in a large number of park visitors and consequently in higher revenues from their own activities. The public institution by implementing sustainable measures contributes to the preservation of the Scottish Caves and by successfully involving the local population in its activities to the development of the entire community in the regional park area. In the Desus Group we support the proposal for a resolution on the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Škocjanska Cave Park for the period 2019-2023.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u130	All in attendance, all in attendance! As my colleague and colleague have already said before me, in those days when we are considering the resolution on the Škocjanska Cave Protection and Development Programme, Jaka Jakovčič, Albert Ličen and my fellow countryman Luka Biščak cheered us with the news of the discovery of the new two trench caves, which they called the Hidden Cave. This is an important discovery that will allow further exploration in this part of the underground world, which has so far been possible only in the low water of the river river, so it is also right to express thanks and recognition from this city to all 24 lobsters from five cave societies, and especially to Luke Biščák, who climbed the wall in the Martel Hall a year and a half ago and discovered a breather through which there was a strong diaphragm, which later ended with the discovery of new parts of the Škocjan Caves. Although this is an important natural value, it is not clear why the National Assembly should decide on the programme of protection and development. The Nature Conservation Act, which is also referred to by the applicant in the preamble, provides in Article 60 for the Government to adopt a plan for the management of the protected area established by the State by a regulation. For example, in the case of other protected areas, for example the Triglav National Park, in the case of Kobilar Lipica and in many other cases. Only the Skocjanska Cave Regional Park Act provides for a five-year programme of protection and development to be adopted by the National Assembly, although the Nature Conservation Act also applies to the Škocjan Caves. In the future, then, consideration should be given to unifying. In our view, there is no need for such acts to be decided by the National Assembly. It would also be right that the timeline of these documents is the same, not as it is today; somewhere these programmes are adopted for four years, in this case for five years, in the case of the Triglav National Park for ten years. However, the National Assembly should hold a debate and decide on something else; different management approaches in the management of our natural, cultural and historical heritage. As there is no valid answer to the question of the different lengths of development programmes, it is also unclear why the country is adopting different approaches to managing our natural values, our cultural and historical heritage. Why is the Park of the Škocjanska Cave managed by a public institution and the Park of Postojna Caves by a private person? These are two comparable natural values, while the profitability of the latter is significantly higher and could, under appropriate system arrangements, provide resources for the development of other natural values that do not have such a strong natural potential, not as today, that most of the natural income is poured into private pockets. It would therefore make sense to harmonise and harmonise the governance and management of natural values, cultural and historical heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we will be able to take a decision on the motion for a resolution in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is a recommendation for strengthening security in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Commission, mags. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u132	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Peace is everything. Peace is a fundamental condition for the operation of all social subsystems. We do not hope to send our children to kindergartens or schools without peace, nor do we hope to shop in stores. Without peace, no society can develop. Peace is the oxygen of our society. Unfortunately, peace is becoming more and more rare. In 2018, there were as many as a thousand 584 terrorist attacks in the world, which unfortunately killed 8,000 100 people. Most terrorist attacks occurred in the Middle East, followed by Africa. Unfortunately, there is no real peace in Europe, nor has it been a year without a terrorist attack. Terrorist organisations have changed their modus operandi. Unfortunately, he was greatly simplified. From complex terrorist operations, they've turned into much simpler ones, such as assaults with knives and vehicles. The goal is clear, it's to spread fear and disable normal life. Thank God we have survived the last fairly turbulent years in Slovenia without a terrorist attack. So far, we have only watched all the tragic images on television, which does not mean that they will be so in the future. As politicians, we must do everything in our power to protect our citizens and to ensure peace. We are also aware of this by the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which is why we have already agreed, at our first meeting of the Commission, on 25 September, to draw up a Recommendation to enhance security in the Republic of Slovenia, because we want to be an active participant in the adoption of measures for greater security. On 16 October 2018, the Commission then considered the draft working recommendation. In the light of the discussion of the members and members of the Commission, the updated proposal for a recommendation was discussed on 13 November and we adopted the final recommendation, which is before you today on your benches, on 11 December 2018. This is just a few hours before a sad terrorist attack took place in Strasbourg and again warned us of our vulnerability in Slovenia. That text of the Recommendation was based on proposals, initiatives and views presented at Commission meetings and also obtained under individual controls. I cannot agree with the Government's distinguished representatives that Knovs is not competent to propose the adoption of this recommendation to the National Assembly. The Commission shall directly supervise intelligence and security services for the control of intelligence and security services. The supervisory function is broad as it includes the entire activity of the intelligence and security services and the supervision of the implementation of covert investigation measures. Our supervision shows a very clear picture of shortcomings, problems, and problems. Dear Government, you can't expect us to lose sight of the irregularities and problems we've identified. It is our duty to help improve security in the Republic of Slovenia. The task of the Commission is to assess and assess, through controls, whether the current powers, as well as working conditions and organisational structure, are sufficient for the effective functioning of these services. If we find that changes need to be made, we are also obliged to propose these things. If we cannot do this, or as the Government says, that we are not responsible for this, then of course I wonder about the meaning of our actions. So I can get back to the recommendation. In the recommendation adopted in point 2 of the Government, the Commission proposed to provide additional financial resources to the information and security system. The past ten years have been a period of austerity and compression, and even this year we have not yet returned to that period before the crisis, at least as far as financial resources are concerned. We also recommend to the Government that we establish a part of the information and security system that will allow for the rejuvenation and acquisition of personnel with the specific knowledge required by the management of modern technology. The average age in our intelligence and security services is high. These services need young people, fresh people, and above all need individuals who know today's modern technology, which is used by terrorists and other criminal associations. It is also recommended that the Government prepare an update of the regulatory basis for the functioning of the intelligence and security services and allow all to jointly use effective tools to deal with current threats. Security and intelligence services are always a step for criminals and terrorists, and if they do not have appropriate tools, they are not only a step, but they are miles behind these services. This is all mentioned in point 2 of our recommendation. This is followed by the third point of the Recommendation, which clearly states that the Commission expects, in the event of an increase in financial resources, the rejuvenation of services, as well as greater powers or more effective tools, to strengthen control of these services. It is therefore recommended that the Government establish a system of barriers and balances in the management and operation of the intelligence and security system, by appointing the heads of those services to be appointed by the Government and the Deputy Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. We also propose to the Government the establishment of an effective security verification system that would prevent the employment of persons posing a security risk and enable them to withdraw in cases where they are already employed. The most exposed case is when a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces shot a policeman and within such structures a system of effective security checks should be put in place to prevent such things. We also propose the creation of a ministerial supervisory group which would further strengthen supervision. We also propose strengthening our Commission to oversee security and intelligence services in order to be assisted in our work by experts; experts who once worked on the other hand, i.e. on the part of those we supervise, perhaps by human rights lawyers and also by some informatics in order to carry out our controls as effectively as possible. Of course, in implementing points 2 and 3 of our Recommendation, it is also essential to be aware of the domestic and global trends that pose security risks to the Republic of Slovenia. In point 1, the Commission made 11 such trends. These are certainly not the only ones, but those highlighted by the members and members of the panel in the debate can, of course, be others. We must all be aware that Slovenia is not an island of eternal peace. Everything that happens around us can reach us very quickly. What we watch on television screens can unfortunately become reality on our soil. Rapid technological development, social change at global and regional level, our national security system faces new challenges and demands to be addressed. Of course, the Commission has always stressed that in all the additional powers, money and people that these services will receive, we also need effective parliamentary supervision, which has proved to be very necessary and necessary and has also had significant breakthroughs. We're all familiar with the Kangler case. The use of covert investigative measures against him was, however, legal, as they were imposed by the investigating judge, but our controls, the supervision of our commission showed: for the first time, that the use of wiretaps was often disproportionate; and for the second time, that the adjectives of hearings were inadequately preserved. Why? It was an example of police taking orders to eavesdrop, and the investigating judge rejected the order. But after a while, the police returned with the same request to another investigative judge, and this hearing was approved. There are also instances of inadequate feeding of these hearings when hearings about Mr Kangler's private conversations were suddenly found in the media. These were the parts of the hearings that were irrelevant, which, in connection with the acts that had been reported to him, had nothing to do with them. In the event of the interception of information by the Soviet Union against Slovenian citizens approved by the President of the Supreme Court, our commission also discovered, in one case, that this hearing was approved, so it could be said that it was legal, but was absolutely disproportionate and working in stock, with the aim of perhaps just finding some reasonable suspicion of the individual for the prosecution or his discredit. In short, there were cases where telecommunications and other communications were monitored up to a maximum of 24 months and 2 years, but in the end there was no substantiated evidence. Non-essential recordings were also destroyed until the information authority ordered them to do so by order. The Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services is the supervisory commission that protects the fundamental human rights of all our citizens. The Commission wants the effective functioning of our intelligence and security services, which must be compatible with the principles of the rule of law. In order for this to become a fact, point 4 of the Recommendation must also be met, that is, that we require the Government to send us immediately all the secret rules and instructions used in its work by the supervisory services. It was an example of the police refusing to hand over the rules to our commission, how it works with secret police officers, because it was important for the commission, however, in the Ornig case. On the last police visit, however, a breakthrough was achieved and the Director-General of Police said that she would nevertheless allow our Commission to look into these rules, which is only logical and normal, since there must be no secret or covert rules in a democratic country. How to make effective intelligence and security services that will operate according to the principle of professionalism and legality, without interfering with political or political suggestions, and at the same time the country will have professional people in these key functions who will not step forward from every political pressure may already be subject to another recommendation. My fellow Members and Members, you must understand that, as President of the Commission, I expect you to fully support this recommendation, as this recommendation is correct, accurate and objective and, last but not least, we have worked together at four different meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior to Mr Boštjan Poklukkar to explain the opinion of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Information and Security Services Supervisory Commission addressed to the Government the Proposal for a Recommendation to enhance security in the Republic of Slovenia and submitted them to the National Assembly for consideration. First of all, I would like to present the principled opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that Knovs is not competent, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence and Security Services, to propose to the National Assembly the adoption of the recommendation in question. This Recommendation does not concern the supervision of the activities of the intelligence and security services or their compliance with national security policy and government guidelines or the control of the use by law of certain specific forms, methods and measures of obtaining information from the security services and security services. This is a proposal for general recommendations concerning general measures to be implemented by the Government, in particular in the field of national security. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of the national security system. This has already been pointed out in the Report on the difficulties in detecting activities which threaten the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia and the document was sent to the National Assembly and Knovs in October 2018. Notwithstanding the principled opinion on the indiscretion of the applicant of this recommendation, the Government responded by a written opinion to the individual recommendations you have also received. I believe that any debate on the importance of national security is useful and welcome, especially since we have taken seriously from our first day the reconstruction and strengthening of the entire national security system. Slovenia is a safe and regulated country, the level of risk is at the second of the five levels and is defined as low. The competent authorities shall continuously monitor the situation within the country, in neighbouring countries and in the region and globally. The Government is aware of all the shortcomings and difficulties encountered by the intelligence and security authorities in ensuring the highest possible level of security in the Republic of Slovenia, the shortcomings in the field of strategic guidance documents, as well as the inadequacy, shortcomings or absence of certain other legal bases that would increase the effectiveness of the intelligence and security system. It has therefore already identified some solutions and proposals to strengthen the effectiveness of work in the field of security. Experts from individual departments are now working on the design of an integrated solution. A new resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which is under public scrutiny, is being prepared. This will re-evaluate the changed security environment and, in particular, take into account the future challenges and opportunities that we have, define modern security challenges. In the Government, we are aware that changes to the legislative framework defining the powers of national security actors are also necessary to ensure effective security. In order to create a more appropriate and, in particular, the time and social changes to the adapted definition of the powers of the security authorities, the amendments of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on the tasks and powers of the police shall be closely coordinated. In this context, the government will pay particular attention to the human resources strengthening of intelligence and security services. Despite a warning from the profession, the excessive reduction in the volume of financial resources allocated to national security in recent years has led to poor social status of employees in the national security system, while causing a large backlog in the area of equipment and in particular the development of the system. The supervision of the work of intelligence and security services must certainly be, as abuses are unacceptable. However, I believe that supervision is already properly regulated in the current legislation. The operation of these services is already subject to thorough parliamentary, judicial and civil supervision. The basis for proper cooperation between all stakeholders is the functioning of all parties involved within the powers defined by the laws. These, however, must be designed in such a way that responsibilities and responsibilities are clearly defined. In order to realize the purpose of parliamentary control, which is still important in the rule of law and democracy, the Government highlights and stresses the importance of constructive and effective cooperation in the context of amendments to the legislation. Dear Members and Members! I have no doubt that we all have the same goal before our eyes, which is as much security as possible in the country. I therefore call on you to make constructive proposals and to make substantial solutions that will help to achieve this objective as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the Group of the Social Democrats and Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial or government team! The document that we are considering today is presented as an act that the Members of the National Assembly are expected to support and present today to the general public; of course, this is not the case. The document is prepared and endorsed with the support of three opposition parties and refers to content that could partly be interpreted as content requiring consideration of modern time. On the other hand, we can understand the clear selection between what the opposition thinks is a priority. So, if I am very specific, the document was produced in disagreement with the majority, the document addresses only one part of the menace. Let me just give you an example. When we listed the security risks in the Republic of Slovenia, we already did well on various fugitives; therefore, for someone, terrorism that occurred in Belfast a week ago is slightly less valuable than the terrorism that occurred in any other European country that has any religion or religion. Or, on the other hand, when we talk about restricting freedom of speech, we do not touch on the other hand. I want to describe to you how the document was produced. Either of us has proposed any supplement, of course at the principle level, this was adopted when this act had to be approved, but this was not agreed upon. Of course, parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security services is one of the most important forms of democratic control and ultimately also directs the work of intelligence operators, especially because the security and intelligence services have established by law important notices that can also reach and reach out to individuals' human rights and freedoms on the one hand, although they are also guaranteed and protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The document before us, which we are considering, touches on certain subjects, but not all. Therefore, respect for the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia is also reflected in the relationship, for example, to the courts, even if the decision in question is not correct. We also believe that the lack of respect for State institutions includes calling institutions such as, for example, criminal justice and, of course, encouraging people to disrespect individual institutions of the country, especially if the highest members of the policy do so. We don't touch that question. With the negative democratic trend in Slovenia, which also appears in most parts of Europe as a phenomenon, we have been in Slovenia for more than 10 years, and we are also addressing this in this document – otherwise, this issue, according to my assessment, does not fall within the parameters of what may be the security threat of our country. In some ways, we need to address these challenges with different principles. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have already tried to mention the introduction: in no way can the Social Democrats support such a document, we do not think it is democratic, but it is worthy of substantive judgement. Today's debate is also intended, as you can see, and there is no excessive desire for it. However, the documents mentioned in some areas for which the state will not only have to draw up development guidelines that will have to go beyond the client framework. I mention this because we were unable to do so in this document. Especially for those who are based on fear of the unknown. However, the task of all of us members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services is to ensure that, on the basis of the powers conferred on us by the law, we are united in making the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia feel safe not only from the point of view of external enemies, but especially from the abuse of the powers of those who also have the power to intervene in human rights. The social democrats of this proposal will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Only Mr German, there can be no desire for a debate because the rules of procedure make this impossible because no amendments have been tabled, not for other reasons. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you. Your Honors are here! The Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services has set constructive cooperation with all stakeholders in the field of national security as one of its priorities in the new mandate. The Commission therefore asked the Government in September for a written report on the situation in the national security system. On the basis of the government report, the Commission has approached the drafting of substantive recommendations to strengthen security in the Republic of Slovenia. The recommendations are based on an assessment of the safety risks posed by domestic and international trends, such as the rise in migration, cyber attacks and the like. We are aware of the shortcomings and difficulties that intelligence and security authorities face in ensuring the highest possible level of security in the Republic of Slovenia, so we support the very purpose and objectives of the recommendation, because we know that they have become well-intentioned, in the interests of our common secure future. However, in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we regret that the debate on the national security aspects and risks has received needlessly ideological signs as soon as the potential security risks have been defined as broad concepts such as migration, freedom of speech or the spread of hate speech, or even negative demographic trends. We believe that the security issue is an extremely important professional and state-of-the-art topic in which there is no room for politicisation and ideology of any kind, so we cannot support the recommendation. We note, however, that professional public debates on security are insufficient, as they are mostly held behind closed doors. Thus today's meeting is a new opportunity after a long time for more than a useful exchange of views at parliamentary level, of course, if it remains within the substantive framework. Let me stress that national security is a broad concept and it cannot be said that the Commission has formally exceeded its competence in preparing its recommendations. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia is one of the safest countries in the world. The data show a low level of risk to the population, and we expect it to remain so, of course. All national security actors in the country are therefore functioning well and providing a high level of security, but there is always room for improvement. The former government has given considerable attention to the importance of national security, including at the legal level. For example, the Police Act has been amended adequately and new laws on critical infrastructure and information security have been adopted. A crisis management and management system has also been established within the framework of the project of the government project office. However, the current government has already taken action to address further systemic shortcomings. Thus, a new resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is already being prepared. The national security system must constantly adapt to the environmental and time security challenges. In the motion for a recast resolution, it is understood that Owl could be given enhanced powers in the future aimed at early detection of violent extremism with the aim of assisting the police in investigating such matters, and could also collect data on Slovenian citizens. In the SMC Group, we point out that this is a very sensitive subject that requires a very thoughtful and balanced approach. In order to enhance the powers of the intelligence services, equivalent supervisory measures must be provided in parallel and without delay both at the political-parliamentary level and at the professional level. Perhaps following the example of Germany, which has, for example, a permanent independent security officer. It is important to be aware that more powers of intelligence necessarily mean more control over them at the same time, and even before that, more professional debate should be held on how to deal effectively with this area, since freedom of the individual is a valuable civilisation and constitutionally protected right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you so much for a nice and nice day! The role of the parliamentary commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services is an important form of democratic control. Knovs, as he is generally told, should monitor intelligence and security services, should monitor the use of disguised investigation measures, methods and measures of data retrieval and other repressive and invasive measures carried out by these services. This is Knovs in theory, and in practice Knovs has become such an exceptional extension of the propaganda apparatus of the right hand; first under Mr Grims' tactics, and now also under the leadership of Mr Tonin, he will obviously go in the same direction. Due to Knovs' inadmissible abuse of his own propaganda, the member of the SDS, if you recall, even stepped down from the commission in the previous term. At a time when Slovenian intelligence services have faced real problems, affairs, irregularities, suspicions of impunity and so on, for example, Knovs has dealt with the security aspects of the ban on some third-rate Ustasha singer concert in the last five years, by accounting with communists through the secret deposits of the Udba and, of course, the winter theme – by predicting an apocalypse that will come because of asylum seekers. If you have read today’s recommendations, you can find that Knovs is now being abused only this time in a slightly more Christian spirit. Let us take a practical look at this: with the recommendations of Knovs, national security is the most strategic threat to the negative demographic trend, which causes the workforce mainly in the Slovenian Army, the police and other national security services, but is also threatened by migrants. In the meantime, we find an obvious and deliberate lie to expect additional recruitment problems arising from the fact that 17% of Slovenia's living population is not born in Slovenia. Now let's pour ourselves some pure wine. Firstly, Slovenia has 6.1% of foreigners living in Slovenia according to the latest figures of the Statistical Office. Secondly, the question arises whether you really report between the lines that only someone born in Slovenia who is born and born in Slovenia can carry out the police profession. Knovs therefore, in other words, advocates discrimination in employment on the basis of race, on the basis of nationality, on the basis of birth. Between the lines, we can also detect this constant call to raise birthrates, which would be most fruitfully achieved by banning abortion and paying birth control. Recommendations include serious difficulties in establishing the rule of law and limiting freedom of speech and, of course, the responsibility of communists for both. The operation of Knovs and acts such as these recommendations are a disgrace. They are nothing more than the apparent abuse of the Commission and its powers, and the Commission, which is supposed to represent one of the key democratic controls over the conduct of the worst interventions in the privacy of individuals, has seized the right to achieve its own political interests and benefits. The security system is not primarily threatened by demographic images or refugees. In the first place, security in Slovenia threatens exactly the Hujag propaganda apparatus of the right, which Knovs has now acquired in order to achieve his own interests. Security and intelligence services have been practically unsupervised for the past five years, facing real problems. Knovs deals with the organization of self-promotional actions instead of their supervision. The recommendations we are considering today are nothing more than that, so we will not support them in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for recommendations that we are considering today has been addressed by the Commission at its four meetings. At the first three meetings, the coalition Members, members of the said Commission, had no comments on the proposal for a text, but had difficulties at the last meeting when the Commission adopted the final text of the recommendations. Even though they had doubts about the text, they did not table any amendments on the proposal and even today, when we adopt a proposal for recommendations at the meeting of the National Assembly, you have not tabled any amendments to the coalition groups which could modify the proposal itself. Otherwise, in New Slovenia we advocate such a policy towards internal security, which will provide citizens with a high level of security and thus an adequate quality of life. Slovenia is part of the wider European space and part of the European Union and NATO. Internal security is therefore also dependent on external factors, and these have changed considerably in recent years. We are witnessing significantly increased illegal migration in Europe and numerous terrorist attacks. There have been no terrorist attacks in our country, and we need to ensure that this remains so. In the face of today's malnutrition of the Slovenian Army and the police, and in the fact that the migrant crisis can re-emerg on an uncontrollable scale, we must be aware that, despite the current calm, the situation can change overnight. The duty of our country not only to prevent terrorist acts in its territory but also to prevent the movement of terrorists and potential terrorists and weapons into the European Union as Schengen states. Intelligence and security systems are in the biggest crisis in the entire security system; a number of policy-related affairs and ultimately a sentence point to the great problems of this system. It should represent the eyes and ears of the security system or provide preventive security, intelligence and counterintelligence. That there was something wrong with the system, it turned out already in the case of an Italian complaint against a Slovenian foreign fighter who was later convicted of working with terrorists in Italy. The counterintelligence apparatus has failed in the arbitration affair, as it is still unclear who was listening to our diplomats. The changed security situation requires an effective intelligence and security system. Migrations of millions of migrants from Africa and the Middle East will continue, terrorist activities will not decline, Russian influence and military presence in the immediate neighbourhood of the EU and NATO are strengthened, and in the end we have an unresolved border issue that occasionally leads to a limited conflict. All of these security challenges call for the renewal and proper organisation of the information and security system. This was set up in the 1990s for a completely different security environment. During this time, the security environment has changed well and the system remains rigid. It is necessary to establish a comprehensive intelligence action at the strategic level, establish appropriate and uniform anti-intelligence protection and unify security operations. These changes require an appropriate social consensus and a change of legislation. As a result, it is necessary to reorganise intelligence and security services well, depoliticise them, professionally upgrade them and rejuvenate them. Appropriate means should be provided to ensure that the information and security system is also technically modernised and effective. In Novi Slovenija we welcome that the Commission has prepared a proposal for a recommendation to strengthen security in the Republic of Slovenia, which can be the beginning of strengthening the information and security system. We will support the proposal in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for a recommendation for strengthening security in the Republic of Slovenia prepared by the Commission of the National Assembly for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. In doing so, it should be said that the majority of the members of the opposition are in Knovs, and it would be a surprise that the recommendation would not be accepted at the Knovs meeting. Some of the recommendations are correctly summarised and agreed on in the material dealing with strengthening security in the Republic of Slovenia, but we cannot agree that negative demographic trends in Slovenia are threatening Slovenia in the long term. According to our assessment, the choice of the concept of endangering is already inadequate. The trainee connects the ageing population and the percentage of people born in Slovenia with the human resources problems in the military, police and other national security services. According to our assessment, these services do not only face human resources problems due to population ageing, but they are certainly affected by the wage system in the public sector, where most of these services belong, as it prevents appropriate remuneration. Among the recommendations of Knovs, we can agree with the one that states that the Government should provide additional financial resources and establish a model of employment for information and security that will enable the employment of experts in all areas of security and ensure the efficient and modern technology used for these purposes. In the coalition cooperation agreement for the period 2018-2022, the coalition partners committed themselves to maintaining the Republic of Slovenia as a safe country and to the proper regulation of national security systems, by conducting a joint strategic review of the national security system covering all subsystems and providing a basis for the preparation and adoption of new, more modern and more appropriate national security resolutions of the Republic of Slovenia. In the opinion of the Government of 24 January 2019 on the Proposal for a Recommendation to enhance security in the Republic of Slovenia, it is clear that Knovs is not competent, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of the Intelligence and Security Services, to propose the adoption of the recommendation in question to the National Assembly. The recommendation to Knovs is not about monitoring the activities of intelligence and security services, but is about proposing general recommendations concerning general measures, particularly in the field of national security. The government has identified the shortcomings and difficulties that intelligence and security authorities face in ensuring the highest possible level of security in the Republic of Slovenia. Weaknesses have been highlighted in the area of strategic guidance documents, as well as inadequacy, inadequacy and absence of some other legal bases that would increase the effectiveness of the information and security system. Members of the Desus Group will not support the recommendations for strengthening security in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The decision to proceed with this recommendation was adopted by five Members. Ambassador Monika Gregorčič of the SMC was then abstained, today, due to instructions from the party, she is likely to vote against, and Members of the SD, LMŠ and Desus voted against it at the time. To recommend this today, I already knew, because you simply disagree with what was written. Let's see. Negative demographic trends; this obviously does not bother you in the sense that it actually exists. Over the last ten years, the average age has risen by two years. Probably in the tens, twentys, thirtys, if it goes that way, it won't be some eccentric problem, but you can't see any more than your own nose. But you probably expect the indigenous peoples of Europe to be replaced by the Arabs in one way or another. You do not agree with the second point, this is an increase in irregular migration. Why? Because it's you who's increasing them, and that's why it makes sense that you can't accept it. Then the points of failed integration in legal migration cannot be supported either, because you know that assimilation does not want to, integration is unsuccessful and you are advocating multicultularism, which has nothing to do with integration. Then you also disagree with terrorism in connection with the spread of radical Islam, because if we supported it, we would spit in our own bowl. By doing so, you would admit that you are guilty of terrorist attacks against Europe when 500 000 illegal migrants were released across the border and even among them were those who carried out terrorist attacks. You also do not agree with the more frequent cyber attacks, because this would admit that Slovenia is naked and barefoot in this area, but we will see this in the report we will get anyway. You also do not agree that we have serious difficulties in establishing a rule of law, because that is why you can be in power. If we had no serious difficulties in establishing a rule of law, you would not have ruled for years. You also do not agree that we have a present restriction on freedom of speech, which is logical, because you are the one who restricts this freedom of speech, you want to restrict it and, as it turns out, you will. Unrespectable attitude towards the institutions and symbols of the Republic of Slovenia. You cannot vote for this either, because it is you who are doing this by gathering under the symbols of the former totalitarian regime and swarming with flags that attacked Slovenia alone in 1991. Nor do you find it problematic that we have the extension of the activities of organised criminal groups and their links to individuals and groups within state institutions and non-governmental organisations, because it is precisely this assistance to you, today's coalition parties, that comes in handy and allows you to be able to form a government and be in power at all. The only thing that I might have, however, is at least this feeling, we supported, but it's increasing conflicts in the Western Balkans, because here you really can't keep your eyes closed that it isn't. In short, under no circumstances would they have supported this, there was no good intentions, because otherwise all of your concerns would have been subject to amendments and amendments to that recommendation. But you want something else; you want to give the Owl the authority to defend you not from outside but from internal enemies, from those who do not surround your customers in parliamentary local European elections. Look who you'd like to give them the authority to spy on their own citizens, hack into their apartments, frame their cameras, and so on. I'll show you pictures that aren't fake. Go to Google, put Owl on a picnic, probably remember that affair from 2011. This is how the Owls are dressed on a picnic, so one of the servants is dead drunk lying on the ground; the other, two again, one dead drunk lying on the ground, the other at least trying to stay. In short, put Owl on a picnic and you'll see what was there! To these people you want the authority to spy for their own citizens – fools and drunkards. Apparently, you want to adopt new legislation under that old password, Bill, everywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Jerca Korče will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you, Chairman. The concept of security has changed significantly in recent years, and although security risks can be linked to military threats all too often, the notion of security is very broad and the task of any responsible policy is to first identify security risks, secondly to clearly identify them and to deal with them at the level of multi-disciplinary integration of all stakeholders responsible for prevention, and not least to actively and carefully identify and respond to security risks. It is true, however, that a major problem can arise if the country does not recognise or even misdetect security risks. The latter is the first step towards not knowing the risks properly or not responding at all. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will reject the proposal for a recommendation to strengthen security in the Republic of Slovenia for several reasons. First time. We estimate that Knovs has exceeded his powers and powers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services. Another time. We believe that the recommendations do not contain or identify all safety risks and highlight certain areas that do not comply with the professional basis. We further believe that the recommendations highlight areas that do not fall within a serious document of this kind and reflect the political agenda of a particular political party and the desire to impose the identification of security risks where there is no serious basis for this. As long as these documents or such documents, as a threat to security in the Republic of Slovenia, identify people not born in Slovenia, generally associate terrorism with Islamic religion and even describe the symbols of the former country as a threat, we will reject them with all responsibility in the List of Marjan Šarc. That's a third reason. The government recognises the importance of security and is already actively implementing everything necessary to identify deficiencies. To this end, an interdepartmental working group for the preparation of a resolution on national security and an interdepartmental working group for the preparation of baselines for the reform of the national security system in the field of the protection of constitutional arrangements has been appointed. Both inter-ministerial groups have completed their work this month. The working proposal for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia has been made public. In every document relating to the security of the country, it is important, in our view, that we are aware that we cannot enjoy development without security and security without development in a globalised world. Not one or the other without respect for human rights; and security is one of the fundamental human rights. The objective must be to ensure security by minimal interference with the field of human rights. Sustainable development of the country also reduces the likelihood of endangering human security. Areas with higher quality of life, good education, higher standards and better health systems are generally recognised as safer. What do I want to point out with the last one? I would like to emphasise the broad field, which is covered by the deadline for the security of the state and citizens. The understanding that security is no longer just related to the traditional name of armed conflicts and that a broad view of security treatment is necessary if we are to place a meaningful and integrated understanding of security and security threats in our country. Furthermore, and not least in the LMŠ, we want Knovs to find a creative and meaningful role within his powers and seriously and responsibly approaches to the challenges ahead. I know and I believe that the President's wish is exactly the same and he will have my full support in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. The decision on the proposal for a recommendation will take place in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I interrupt the 17th item of the agenda and the 4th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2.30 p.m. and resumed at 2.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u150	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished mayors! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 3, 2, 4, 5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 16, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions. Dear Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. This brings us to the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal for a law on certain concession contracts, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 35. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 5 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Resolution and Forced Cessation of Banks under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town. Since the amendments to the amended motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree in its entirety. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would not have led to a proposal for a decision being inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Nobody.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplementation to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. Since the amendments to the amended motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree in its entirety. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Nobody.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk. Since the amendments to the amended motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree in its entirety. I am also informing you here that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the decision inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Nobody.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 14th item of the agenda, this is for consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana. Since the amendments to the amended motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree in its entirety. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft resolution on the Agenda for the Protection and Development of the Park of the Škocjanska Cave for the period 2019-2023. Since the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. This time, too, I have not been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted on the home working body would have made the motion for a resolution inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Nobody.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation to Enhance Security in the Republic of Slovenia. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a recommendation, we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. He wants to talk to the mag. Mr Matthew Tonin on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u151	Dear Members, Members, good afternoon! The New Slovenia Group will recommend, of course, unanimously support. The recommendation is made up of four points. The last, fourth point speaks of the fact that our security and intelligence services are obliged to submit to our commission all the rules and acts and that in democratic countries with parliamentary democracy there cannot be secret rules and secret acts that would prevent us from controlling civil control. This is the fourth point of the recommendation. The second and third points of the recommendation speak of the need for more resources after 10 years of saving our intelligence and security services, rejuvenation of the team and the need for tools, powers and competences to follow the development of modern technologies. In point 3 of the recommendation, the Commission makes it clear that, with greater powers, a greater financial cake must also come with better and better control. Therefore, in point 3 of the Recommendation, a whole series of improvements are made in order to strengthen the supervision of security and intelligence services. The first point is aimed at trends, global and also national, which may endanger the security of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, these trends can be an subjective assessment. The Commission, most of them in the Commission have identified 11 such trends, could certainly be another one, there is no problem. It is essential for all things, however, that if this recommendation or this act of the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services falls today, it will be my opinion that this will be the first time in history that an act adopted by this Commission has also fallen at the plenary session of the National Assembly. This is the first time this has happened. However, I find it unacceptable that Parliament, as well as the majority in Parliament, always has the opportunity to withdraw with the amendment those points of the recommendation that it disagrees with. Today I understood the coalition that it has a problem with point 1 of the recommendation of four. It would be very simple and elegant to make an amendment with which to delete this first point. However, it is essential that a political message be sent from this house that Parliament will provide a basis for our security and intelligence services to be able to operate normally and effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We're moving to the vote. One more moment, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u153	Of course, I will vote against it myself, but in fact, I have nothing to regret what my colleague Tonin has just said, especially because Knovs should be really ashamed that he has accepted such recommendations. I do not want such a message from this National Assembly to come, as you wrote, that it is a dangerous element, the security risk is also a large proportion of the population of the unborn in Slovenia. I'm sorry, I can't accept this as a harsh fact and that we're also declaring it in the way that you imagined it. I respect your work, colleague mag. Tonin, your efforts to correct and essentially update these recommendations in terms of improving and changing conditions that exist but not racist. It's pure racism for me. Therefore, I simply do not agree with the logic that my neighbour, my fellow Members who are not born in this country, or acquaintances who should be asked where they live; whether they are suitable for certain professions, for certain works, and in this way we also make a distinction by stopping them, which the Constitution does not allow us. Last time, I am Möderndorfer and my family has been in Slovenia for over 100 years and I come from elsewhere. Today on the "-ic" are not good, and tomorrow it may be those who have some other basis. Sorry, colleague Tonin, I know this idea has been created as a rotten compromise, because most of Knovs have a right hand that has been spreading its racist ideas for some time – it will not work. I hope not for a long time! [[sign for the end of the debate]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u154	Dear Members, I have one question. I see Mrs. Jerco Korža, is there anyone else who would like to report that we are initiating the list process? [[Advertising from the hall]] Please ask those who wish to apply to the debate to apply for the explanations of vote – in any event. We're about to begin the listing process. Thanks, we're done. We have four applications at this point. First of all, you're a mag. Matthew Tonin, prepare for Mrs. Jerca Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u155	I will recommend my support because there are many things inside that lead us all together to create better conditions for our security and intelligence services to be able to operate normally, without distraction, to have adequate finances, staff and also tools or competences to carry out their tasks. With regard to some disturbing things, let me say that what has been exposed today is not in the recommendation. This was in some explanation, which was disturbing for some of the reasons, and therefore, with the SMC, Mrs Gregorčič, at the Commission's meeting, we sought not to recommend this part of the explanation with the amendment, even to withdraw from this recommendation. Interestingly, this amendment has not been supported by the remaining coalition members. It's not essential, I think the key message here is that the coalition had one and a very simple tool called the amendment. With one amendment, I could propose deleting the first point which speaks of these trends and threats. That would probably be the part that bothers you. You also have the right majority to make this the easiest thing to do with the amendment, and I do not judge you, and you can also think that this part of the recommendation does not fit you. But I'm concerned that you didn't do it, because then I can rightly think that you also have problems and problems with providing more money and rejuvenation to the services.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word, Mrs. Jerca Korče. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u157	I'll vote against it. Once again in this place – Mr Toni also knows my opinion that security needs to be strengthened and that the purpose of these recommendations has been really good. After all, we have received a document that is not really like anything and that is why I have to reject it. But the amendments would mean removing the first point, leaving the other three, four points, which, let's say, are fine, but that would give us some half-total, and we want to get some whole, which also recognizes security risks. This will be addressed by a resolution which has already been put before the Government for public consideration. I would just like to say something, but at least five members of this National Assembly are defined in this document as a security threat and this is the grave mistake of this document. Kolga Baković, if you did not know, you are a security threat to the Republic of Slovenia, also colleague Tomić, not least not to mention my colleague, Mr Golubovic. If these are the security threats of our country, then we have gone far enough to reject and make a reasonable effort, Comrade Tonin, to obtain a comprehensive document that will identify what the real threats of our country are, because we owe it to our citizens to ensure proper development, proper security and, once again, what I have already said in my position, under the assumption of respect for human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Dr. Franz Duck, prepare Mr Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. After basic education I'm a science-mathematic technician and I have some big logical problem. The vast majority of us are over 27 years of age and are born in another country. What you did yesterday is part of the day before – yes, we are indeed the greatest security threat to this country. Let's think about it! Second of all, two days ago, you've been babbling a lot about how something can't be unconstitutional. The last thing that could be unconstitutional could be a recommendation that Jani spoke about. There is no secret that Tonin and I had an emergency meeting today that dealt with a serious security threat in the Republic of Slovenia, where we will probably have to talk in the future at a closed session. When the arbitration came out – after all half my family lives on the Croatian side, my mother is Croatian, but I am Slovenian – I went quickly to see how many Croatian secret services they received from the budget, how much ours gets. I must also not say in an open session how much “big” Owl gets for education each year. And I said to myself, "Good morning!" In this part, I definitely agree with Tonin. I see Knovs is a little behind. I'm not in it, too bad, I can honestly admit, I'm a little angry with myself — I was on vacation at the time, and they let it go too quickly. But in this way, as is the case with what you wanted to put in a little bit, if I use my mother's language, in this recommendation and as the debate goes on at this meeting, we will not get rid of the security threats and not even in the European elections, and Europe will be an even more security threat to itself if it elects such Members and Members. In particular, if she is going to vote for the European Parliament, the lazy ones, because of the seven that were literally doing almost nothing, which are now there in Brussels. Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we are tired of this debate, but I felt obliged to stop by on this occasion. Indeed, her colleague, Jerz Korča, made clear what a threat this would pose for at least five Members. But now you can imagine in the country where the red star is magnified, how the Member of the Germans feels. [[Laughing in the hall]] These acts do not show any uniformity of the state. Done. The Chairman of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services speaks and strives, I admit, is one of those opposition Members who was actually looking for a consensus here, but we were actually driven. You know, talking about 2, 3, 4 is practically pointless when the frame is set on wrong bases. I am talking about Islamic terrorism, there is no other terrorism; we are talking about citizens, such as I will not repeat myself, Jani explained nicely – second-rate, first-class. I speak a language that we don't use, someone else does. Thirdly, we are talking about exalting freedom of speech, whereas hate speech is not even mentioned in any act. So the concept itself is set in a way that just exposes certain elements that appear in our society as threatening, and for us this is unacceptable. The amendment would mean that we are repeating errors on the basis of that act, which should be formed substantially more in a human way. So we are absolutely going to reject this initiative. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We can go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are voting on the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 52. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the recommendation is not accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on Migration. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultation referendum on the treatment of migration is being held. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 54. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 54.]] I note that the assembly of the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of Amendment 124. Member of the Rome Statute. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments to the meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. The Republic of Austria, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. This law has also been addressed by the competent committee, which is the Committee on Foreign Policy, which has informed us in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been passed.I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement on participation in European satellite navigation programmes between the European Union and its member states on one side and the Swiss Confederation on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Home Working Committee, this is the Committee on Foreign Policy, has reported in writing that there are no reports of debate. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Period of the day, it's on the defensive bill on the ratification of the Antarctic Treaty. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee on Foreign Policy, as the parent working body, reported in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on the ratification of amended and complementary acts of world postal relations and the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement on postal services. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the State. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 83 votes against one. [[The vote was 83.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 4th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice day. Goodbye!
