ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the esteemed Government! I begin the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 20, paragraph 2, Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Nataša Sukič, Violeta Tomić, Zvonko Černač, Matjaž Han since 17:00 [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] . It's still true that you can leave; I'm kidding. Welcome! Matjaž Han from 17:00 till 20.30, Maša Kociper, Ludmila Novak, Blaž Pavlin from 11.30 to 13.30, Alexander Reberšek from 18:00 on, Marko Bandelli, Aljaž Kovacič until 16:00, Luka Mesec until 12 noon, Mateja Udovč from 11.30 to 2.30 p.m., dr. Franc Runk from 12 o'clock on, and I'll be gone from 12 o'clock on my own. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec and other representatives of the Government were invited to the meeting. Once again, everyone, welcome! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 14 June 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I am informing you that I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda for the meeting, so I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received by reference to the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is to discuss the work and responsibility of the Minister for the Defence of Karl Viktor Erjavc. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Daniel Krivec. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Jan Mahnič, for an additional explanation of the interpretation. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial council! “Although my conscience is clear, it is irresponsible of me, as Minister, to indirectly threaten the vital credibility of the resources I manage.” No, these are not statements by Minister of Defence Karl Viktor Erjavac, these are statements by the former Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Juret Lebn. Minister Lebn, who has consistently claimed not to be guilty in the public eye, said clearly and loudly that under such a burden, under such a weight all charges could no longer be managed by the director, because of his credibility, because of the credibility of the director, and because of the credibility of all the projects under way in this area. We can't expect anything like that from the Minister of Defense, Karl Erjavac. A minister who has been around ever since 2000; never guilty. A minister who moves from chair to chair wherever he goes, there are problems, but never any responsibilities. On us, Members and Members of Parliament, today is to show whether we have enough ethical criteria to deceive, deceive, break laws, play the whole country, finally say once – it is enough. The interpretation that we have submitted is divided into four points: responsibility for violating Article 32 of the Law on Defence and Abuse of ODS powers; responsibility for violating Article 45 of the Defence Act in conjunction with Article 98a of the Defence Act; and Articles 38, 39 and 40 of the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army; responsibility for overstepping powers, deception and lying in the event of night shooting at Poček and for carrying out political functions that result in lost confidence in the role of the Minister and institutions. It all began when Officer Delo and then for the weekend the Fire Report announced contributions that Chief General Staff was sick, that she had been absent for a long time and was supposed to experience a nervous breakdown. After the military, text messages were circulated, rumors were heard after what was happening in public. The Minister of Defence orally ordered the Director of Military Intelligence to investigate these rumors. And so the Director also verbally ordered that members of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence went to the Force Command, because the texts they circulated were in the content that the Commander of the Force Command, General Škerbinc, was inappropriately speaking on the line and at the College of Health of the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army. Now there's a trick. Where did they have the authority to go to the headquarters of the Force Command on the Vrhnika and to follow the first paragraph, after the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 32? Article 32 of the Defence Act provides for intelligence, counterintelligence and security tasks. In the first paragraph of the intelligence and counterintelligence and in the second paragraph of the security order. The link to which they referred is as follows: Detection, investigation and prevention of threats to the safety of certain persons, jobs, facilities and environments used by the Ministry and the Slovenian Armed Forces in or outside the country, and information on the development or production of certain military weapons or equipment. Dear colleagues, I ask you, what are the rumors of the health situation of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces? Prevention of job threats, they said. Do we separate the job from the person who occupies the job? During the time of the financial economic crisis, it was often said, for example, for the Mure case – more than 100 jobs were at risk. What does that mean? That these jobs will no longer be returned to this job. What does that mean, however, that the position of head of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces is at risk? It can only be threatened if we can call it a threat to someone to introduce a novel of the Defence Act, where he wrote that the post of Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces is deleted, because this post is no longer available. Even if the chief leaves, someone else will come to her place of work, the job will still exist. The chief herself is not a job; the chief is just a person taking up a job. Even if she leaves, someone else will occupy this job that will still exist. So the threat to the job is off. Preventing threats to the safety of certain persons – according to this explanation, colleagues and colleagues, we are all at risk here. Look at the forums, what's written about us, what people on the street are talking about us. Is this now the reason why the police or the Slovenian Intelligence Agency will check all rumors that exist about MPs and MPs of the National Assembly, already inside this house, outside this house, on the government and elsewhere? Does someone, a minister, a secretary of state - not many criticise the Prime Minister in a four-eye discussion - threaten the job of the Prime Minister of the Government, or threaten the Prime Minister with rumors? Self-threatening is not yet a crime, given how the matter is interpreted, is not and cannot be. And also when we asked ODS members when we were there: Do you remember that at any time the Intelligence Security Service would investigate rumors about any chief; they all said, "Don't remember, it wasn't." So there was a lot of talk about the many chiefs of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. However, we could proceed under the second indent, investigating crimes in accordance with the law. Then we come to Article 34 of the Defence Act, which speaks of powers: “Intelligence officials of the Ministry of Security, who carry out security tasks and are appointed by the Minister” is the second paragraph, “have in accordance with this law in the prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences in the Ministry and the Slovenian Army of Powers, as provided for in the law for the police.” The Law on Police Tasks and Powers speaks in Article 34 about the collection of notices, saying exactly what ODS members did at Vrhnika. There are only two cases here: either the 161st Article of the Penal Code, which speaks of enforcement, or the 159th Article of the Penal Code, which speaks of slander. But what is essential about these two articles? None of these two articles shall be prosecuted for official duties, may be brought only on appeal or on application. The Chief of General Staff didn't report anyone, either, for performing or for rumors. ODS members used police powers and police powers can only be used when investigating crimes. In this case, it may be a crime of execution or slander, which is not pursued under official duty, but on a proposal. And since the Commissioner did not make this proposal, nor did any others, this was clearly stated by the members themselves that it was not a predictive procedure, that no application had been filed; they could not do so even after the second indent of paragraph 2 which referred to the investigation of offences in accordance with the law. It was not a threat to the chief, it was not a threat to the job, it was not a criminal charge, it was not a police complaint; it meant that, according to police authority, members of the Security Intelligence Service at Vrhnika should not operate. And here is a clear responsibility and a clear violation of the Defence Act and the Law on the tasks and powers of the police by the Minister of Defence and also by the Director of the ODS. However, at the hearing yesterday, the principal herself said to the question: Did you file a criminal complaint before the 3rd of April when the hearings were held at Vrhnika?She said, "I didn't. And also that she filed a criminal complaint only after she received the ODS report. This is said to be a re-abuse of the Intelligence Security Service because they were doing something so that Chief General Staff had a basis to file a criminal complaint. Also, the chief abused Intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not enough for the Minister to leave, given that the previous mandate has gone away, the Minister of Security Intelligence has ordered – make me an analysis of the negative effects of the sale of Telekom for national security, which means that the three could sit down, re-think and write the matter without going to Telekom Slovenije without doing anything else in the operational sense; this abuse is both eccentric and significantly worse. Lots of rumors. See what Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Dobren Bozič said about the principal: One of her key problems is that she cannot disconnect, she does not know the disconnect button; and this property gives human health an account sooner or later. But what about this rumor, is it also an inappropriate rumor, or has anyone been investigating it, ladies and gentlemen? What the Chief of General Staff could take away was an article in Del. Did you go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the Intelligence Security Service or the Owl because they don't have jurisdiction there? You didn't go because you abused intelligence. The minister did. Although there were a lot of rumors, there was a clear objective here, namely to remove the Commander of the Force Command or pull himself out of his own zone; as one of the media wrote, on 8 March, a college was held at the Ministry of Defence with regard to Article 59 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, with regard to the supplement for the workload or the increased volume of work. That's where Minister Erjavec treated the chief so much that she broke down, came out crying all over the place, and then she was gone for three weeks. And because Minister Erjavec was afraid that the chief would charge him with a mobile phone, he was taking away the matter he had handled — that Škerbinc was planning to suspend the chieftain to come back to Dobren Christmas and something had to be done. And this is the story that the minister then played, even though they are members and members, and that Commander Škerbinc himself, according to the magnetogram you have, said that it occurred that he simply listened to peace, that he criticized everyone who criticized the chief, that he was defending her. As far as point 2 is concerned, the illegal withdrawal shall be provided in Article 45 that the commanders, including the Chief of Staff, the Deputy Commanders and other members of the Permanent Staff, shall be appointed and discharged on a formational duty in accordance with the law, without internal and public publication, on the basis of official needs. This is what the Minister of Defence doesn't understand; and he did according to the law. For Article 98a clearly states: “For the official needs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall be considered that the completion or completion of the formation duties for which the completion is provided by an organisational order, or which is necessary for the operation of a command or unit: the completion of the formation duties which are not completed shall be provided for by the members of the permanent composition; the completion of the formation duties by which the continuous line of command is established.” Ladies and gentlemen, a brigade in a transitional formation is not an official need. Minister Erjavec said, "You can get rid of anyone without an explanation." This applies only in the case of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces after one year when the Minister takes office. For all others, according to the instructions on the powers of appointment and discharge in the Slovenian Army in Article 2: “The Chief of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces shall propose to the Minister of Defence by means of a written proposal for the appointment and discharge of commanders and their deputies appointed and dismissed by the Minister of Defence in accordance with the law.” The Rules of Service of the Slovenian Army clearly state that discharge must be justified in writing. It wasn't there. It was broken. The Minister said: Yes, we have relieved Brigadier Škerbinc of his duties as Chief of Staff of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army and appointed him Commander of the Slovenian Army Force Command. In this case, of course, it is an official need. But to relieve the commander of the Slovenian Army Force Command, you put him on a previous formation, in Poljče, in an office where he has no work, and the Force Command is still three weeks without a commander, that is not an official need. If you immediately appoint Brigadier Šerbinc to another position, it is an official need; if you put him on a previous formation and leave his command post empty, that is not and cannot be an official need. Anything further that took place when he received that order when he replied to that objection within the legal time limit was not decided, he did not receive an answer, all of which constitutes a violation of the law. Third point, shooting at Pocak. The minister didn't know there was gonna be a shooting at Poczk, the minister didn't know anything about Poczk, nothing. This is a pear message from the Ministry of Defence, address: Approved activities in the Poček region for March 2019. March 26th, shooting from midnight to three o'clock with heavy calibres, increased noise from planes and explosions. March 27th, from midnight to three in the morning, shooting, increased noise from heavy-calibre shooting, due to airplanes and explosions. The press release, which was sent before the exercises, what will happen in March at Poček, ladies and gentlemen. What is a minister who doesn't know what's going on in his own house; what is a minister who doesn't know what his pear job is doing; what is a minister who says, "Yes, it said in an annex that Americans will have 120mm mortars, but that doesn't mean they'll use them." Ladies and gentlemen, take a look at today's debate, Karl Erjavec – 120 minutes. And it's like after the minister comes after me, I said tomorrow, "Yes, it said, Karl Erjavec -- 120 minutes, but that doesn't mean he's gonna talk." Yeah, of course he'll talk if he's interlocked and he has to answer! Where did you see an army bringing 120-millimeter mortars and not using them?Oh, my God! It wasn't a silent exercise, it was a military exercise, the military was there to shoot. The Minister has authorized Colonel Rodet and also Colonel Zakroška to arrange everything with the Americans. It was agreed that the table where it says should look at two columns who will participate in the exercise – the Slovenian Army with support of 60 millimetres and the 72nd Brigade of the American Army, where there is no record of what weapons they will use. However, the annex says that they will have 120 millimetres of mortars; and according to exercise and agreement that they will shoot from midnight to three in the morning with heavy calibres. If that's not enough for you, let's move on. Report on the implementation of the activity on OVAD Poček. The Minister then immediately requested the report of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces: “In the planning of the activities, the following restrictions were agreed: shooting will not take place on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, except in the training of the units completed with the contractual reserve and the Slovenian Armed Forces military units; night shooting will take place for a maximum of 10 days in the month, June, July, August and September, not more than 23 hours.” March doesn't fit here. Then it's about increased fire threats and everything. The chief said several times: Yes, we have an agreement with the Municipality of Postojna, the Municipality of Postojna has resigned from it, but we continue to hold on to it, we can shoot at night for up to ten days, and in the summer only until 23 p.m. “It follows from the notification of approved activities in the Poček area for March 2019 that the activities were planned and coincided with other plans and orders and that they were notified to the public.” So the public has been informed, the minister has not been informed. Isn't the minister a part of the public? Another reason why a minister doesn't know what's going on in his own house. “We have taken into account the directives of the Minister of Defence that despite the resignation of the Municipality Postojna from the agreement between Mors and the Municipality of Postojna we strictly adhere to the definitions and limitations of this. These clear guidelines have been delegated by line of command and control to subordinate command commanders and units carrying out activities in the area. Guidance shall be included in the management and command acts. In the implementation of the exercises, such instructions and guidelines shall also be followed in a consistent manner. The guidelines and instructions are set out in the annexes to this report.” Furthermore, what is essential, respected colleagues and colleagues, even in the case of the Sokol exercise, has been the course of planning and coordination and communication, and finally we are only carrying out activities at the Poček exercise in accordance with the agreement, guidelines and plans given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence. The shooting at Poček took place in accordance with the government guidelines and guidelines and guidelines of the Minister of Defence. We did not violate any normative provisions by means of the way in which we implemented them. Signature: Maj-Gen Alenka Ermenc, Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The minister should have done two here. Or to say that everything was fine, no one would be responsible; or to say so – I take an objective responsibility, I resign; or to dismiss the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army. And before that, say unto her, I demand that you give me proof that thou hast given the command of the Spirit, that it should not be shot. But she didn't do it because she wrote that everything was right and right. What happens then? Then the Minister of Defense says, "No, no, this document does not apply; that annex applies. When you open that annex, it says that the 72nd Brigade of the American Army and the Slovenian Army will participate in the exercise with limits of 60 millimetres. So the Americans were shot; as far as they could shoot, they were shot. When it falls, the minister says it said it was going to be a 120-millimeter mortar, but I didn't think they were actually going to use it. When this falls, he says that they had a college where Commander Škerbinc was also ordered not to be shot at night. Where's the record of this college, Mr. Secretary? A lie about a lie, a fabrication of an invention, and this is the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. Catastrophe, ladies and gentlemen. How can you vote in favour of such a minister? What will be your own credibility? What will be the credibility of those who advocate ethics and morality, who say how you will give a hope to a new citizen with a new policy; and you are defending a 20-year-old minister where there is always one and the same thing. What did Brigadier Šerbinc say about this? “The Minister of Defence signed two acts for this particular exercise. He has twice been authorized, once the commander of the 72nd Brigade, once the commander, then not my own, who is responsible for the training. Both documents having the status of an “international agreement” also clearly state that it will be fired with 120 millimetres. Me and the chief didn't know." Of course you knew. Minister, you signed two files. You're the one who assigned the army to train with the Americans; and in this act, you said that the Americans would shoot 120 millimeters, 40 millimeters, and I don't know what. I understand that if I, as a Force Commander for a few hours, was no longer certain what the rules of the Pocket game are, by what rules I am now shooting – or by what we have in the army, which is behind the General Staff, which is my only superior authority of command; or by what I read from the newspapers, or by what else, the Commander later says that it is in line with what was in the media, that he orally ordered that it be no longer fired at night; and on 4 April, according to the Secretary of State Grošlje and Boštjan Šefic, who was in charge of the Permanent Community, he also gave such an order in writing. However, the minister made four changes, five times, to the statements about why the commander had been dismissed – because of the night shooting at Poček, because of rumors of health condition, then because of both, then because he only signed, the chief proposed; and not least because the chief no longer trusted him. Which of these five versions, Mr. Minister, is the right one? What did you say in the last month? Why are you harming the reputation of Minister of Defence? Why are you hurting the Slovenian Army? The last point we have written is the loss of a good number of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which continues under the Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac. He interrupted the purchase of 8 x 8 precisely because of the things Commander Škerbinc had warned him about. And when Commander Šerbinc asks the Chief of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army to inform those who have failed this project, do you know what the Chief said to him: "Lord Brigadier, the comrades are not to be wronged." And within a month, she's going to press charges against him herself. If you've abused Intelligence, Mr. Minister, even if this turns out to be rude or ugly, I'm really worried if we have a chief who's had a calm nervous breakdown. Then we should investigate this, because this endangers national security if we have such a chieftain. And that would be illegal. We could use legal leverage to talk to the brigade and also the chief, but of course you didn't do it. Our predictions have come true; what the White Paper says is exactly what will happen to the Slovenian Army, you will write the number 6 000 500 members of the permanent composition. And yesterday the chief said, Let you rather be interested in those 6 thousand 544 members. I think she said that number. Hurry up with the White Book, because in fourteen days it'll be under 6,000 500. And also for these new criteria that you will use, the assessment will be negative because they will not be satisfied. But what's interesting is that you're not cut off by the Prime Minister of the government, Marjan Sarec. So far, visible representatives of the government and the coalition have left because of sandwiches, inappropriate behavior, models. The most harmful superminister of all time, Karl Erjavec, who apparently broke the law and lied publicly, is still bright under the sun of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc; also because he pleases Marjan Šarc. Karl Erjavec is unrecognizable, which Erjavec is politically destroyed, literally kneeling before the Prime Minister. Or does anyone know Karl Erjavac to say, "It's good that the LMSH has received so many MEPs." I will confirm the European Commissioner proposed by the President of the Government. You're not tearing me down, you're tearing down the government. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Such a minister pleases the Prime Minister and, therefore, the Minister obviously remains. This interpellation will not seal the fate of Karl Erjavac, his fate is sealed, Karl Erjavac's political career is over. He was not elected to the National Assembly; his party lost a MEP, defeating him. But it's none of our business. However, the power is delicious, Mr Prime Minister, and you are prepared for power to accept the most rotten compromises and support systemic corruption. Those are not my words, but Dr. Balažic said when he said: “Erjavec himself introduced and legitimized a dangerous precedent, namely the deformation of a coalition contract into a political agreement with monetary claims for his clientele. This points to the successful abduction of the country by citizens and, of course, to systemic corruption. The payment of all citizens' money for the political mobilisation of one party, coded in the coalition contract, cannot be anything but systemic corruption." Whether the Prime Minister does not know that Karl Erjavac does not recognize this act, or whether the Prime Minister is simply at the level of Karl Erjavac. At such a pace the decommissioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces will soon be no more. And who will defend us and the Prime Minister in case anything happens? Minister Erjavec? At that time, no fence will be high enough, Mr Prime Minister, no matter what angle you look at it, and no matter who counts the walls in it. The Prime Minister should have pulled his own, but the Prime Minister had to ask questions. Someone who publicly goes to the capital after a confession, while at the same time the children attending Catholic primary schools are thus deprived and deprived of their human rights, is the Prime Minister of the Government, who is at the level of Minister Erjavac. That's why Minister Erjavec has to leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u3	Mr Member, thank you for further explanation of the interpolation. Dear Members, you received the reply of the Minister of Defence to the interpretation on 5 June 2019. I give the floor to the Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! Interpellation is certainly one of the political tools that enable the discussion of the Minister's work and responsibility. But this interpolation is absurd. Why is that? Interpellation is absurd because it is based on wrong interpretations of the rules, on wrong assumptions and on wrong facts. Interpellation is unprofessionally prepared and it is a matter of complete ignorance of the rules or the interpolation authors completely ignore the rules and facts. Today I have the opportunity to respond publicly to the findings and instigations and at the same time to draw attention to the unacceptable politicisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which we have witnessed recently; and we have also witnessed it in the presentation of the interpretation by Mr Mahnič. In the debate, I will prove that it is not true that the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence has exceeded the powers and acted unlawfully, that the change of the Force Commander was not a violation of the law and that I acted in accordance with the powers; that the night shooting at Pocket was not a violation of the powers of the Minister and of his deception or lies; that I am faithfully carrying out my function, in caring for the progress of the defence system. Since the discharge of the Force Commander was a direct reason for the interpretation, I would like to point out in the introduction that I do not regret that I followed the proposal made by the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces for his discharge, as his conduct after his discharge showed that it was a senior officer closely linked to politics, particularly with the Slovenian Democratic Party; otherwise how to understand the entire political storm from the opposition because of its resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision to dismiss the Force Commander was based on the proposal made by the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. I trust in her expertise, as she proposed for her appointment, so she proposed his discharge. The discharge was due to a loss of trust by the chief to the Commander of the Force Command and the need for the effective functioning of the military organisation; therefore, due to official needs. The Head of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces could propose the discharge of the Force Commander, even if there was no shooting at Poček, even if there was no foul talk. All that's enough is that there's no more trust. And that there are rumors and that people talk a lot about officials, ministers, chiefs, I don't know from whom; people can, but I can't imagine that the Force Commander, as the second highest officer in the Slovenian Army, allows himself to talk about the health condition, which is a violation of the rules of service. Dobren Bozič of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces; he is a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And if anything were to be done against him by the Intelligence Security Service, it would be a violation and not even have that authority. The rotation of the Force Commander was not the first case, nor was it the last case of exchanges in command duties in the Slovenian Army. Five times the Force Commander has been replaced. Last time I checked, no one was interested in the reasons, no one got upset. However, when it comes to Brigadier Šerbinac, we have never had so much political noise due to one exchange. Respected investors do not claim that the Force Commander has been discharged illegally. He was appointed without explanation and was also released without explanation. In this way, all the commanders of the Force Command have been appointed and resolved so far. And there's never been any excitement, and that's the road to such excitement. What's gotten you so upset? Perhaps I want to prevent further politicisation of the Slovenian Army. If I start answering the readings from the interpolation. With regard to the first point of interpretation relating to the allegations of a violation of Article 32 of the Defence Act, to the alleged violation of legal powers for the abuse of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence Service, I would like to point out that the OCS, which is the Security Intelligence Service, has an important role within the national security system. The Defence Act in Article 32 divides the tasks of the service into information, counter-intelligence and security tasks in the defence field. Information and counter-intelligence tasks shall include the collection, documentation and analysis of information and data relevant to the defence interests of the State or the protection of such data. The Intelligence Security Service shall, in accordance with the law, detect, collect and analyse various threats to security within the defence system affected by various factors. In this context, the Intelligence Security Service must verify all the facts and circumstances that could endanger the security of the defence system, in particular when it detects any safety indication. Through the operation of the Security Intelligence Service at the Slovenian Armed Forces Command, which was also the subject of a hearing by the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission (Knovs), the Intelligence Security Service examined the threat to the safety of the job, more specifically the formational duties of the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. There were signs that the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces would be involved in the interpretation of personal circumstances, namely the medical situation of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Miha Škerbinc. The ODS has seen the development of incorrect information on the Commissioner's health status as a safety indicative phenomenon, with the dissemination of information upsetting and very negative surprises for commanders and other members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Such a situation would have a significant negative impact on the command system in the Slovenian Army and would have interfered with its functioning in a timely and proactive manner, and could thus have become a threat to the safety of certain persons or jobs. From the conclusions of the Report of the Security Intelligence Service of 12 April 2019, which I will present in order to protect classified information at the closed part of the meeting, it is clear that the activities carried out were necessary, appropriate and legal, as the information on the unloving event has been confirmed. Interpellation investors mistakenly state that the ODS carried out a classical intelligence activity. In a specific case, it is clear that it was not the determination of security conditions and military capabilities outside the country, but of the security indicative phenomenon detected in the defence system, which is, as a consequence, the collection of information due to an exceptional case in the defence system, which was carried out by authorised security sector employees of the Security Service. Of course we've never had a case like this before. In the history of the Slovenian Army, we have not had a case where another person in the hierarchy of the Slovenian Armed Forces speaks ill of the chief or, in this case, of the Chief of General Staff. Therefore, there is no such case and it was therefore necessary that we react because it was a security indicative phenomenon that could undermine the functioning and effectiveness of the operation within the Slovenian Army. Security Intelligence personnel authorised to carry out security tasks shall carry out these activities at all times, with a view to preventing the safety of certain persons, jobs and the defence system. Subject to the powers referred to in Article 34, paragraph 2, of the Defence Act in the performance of this task, the intelligence officers shall collect notices which, in accordance with Article 34 of the Law on the duties and powers of the police, fall within the general police powers. Security Intelligence personnel carried out security tasks in the defence area to clarify the facts and circumstances of the safety indication, namely inadequate public speaking about the health status of Chief of Staff; and did not carry out any intelligence activities. The indications in the interpolation that the basic standard of operation has not been complied with and that an appropriate written order has not been provided and the documentation of the work carried out are incorrect and misleading. I reiterate that in that case it was not an intelligence activity and that no specific form of data collection was carried out as provided for in Articles 20 and 30 of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act and no specific investigation measure for the investigation of criminal offences laid down in the Criminal Procedure Act. Legislation for the regular police task of collecting notices does not require a written order. In a specific case, all professional and legal standards were taken into account, and therefore the interpretation statement that the basic professional standard concerning the written documentation of the order and the work carried out was not respected. It's clearly a misdirection by the authors of the interpretation. The Intelligence Security Service carried out preventive security tasks at the Force Command, including activities related to the prevention of all forms of deviation or conduct, such as offences, disciplinary offences or offences, including, in particular, the prevention of offences, the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Defence Act. Commenting on the health status of the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces or of any other member of the Slovenian Armed Forces constitutes a violation of the rules of service in the Slovenian Army relating to relations between members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the protection of dignity and privacy. Therefore, the gathering of information on such an unwanted phenomenon falls within the context of the limited tasks of the Security Service Intelligence under the Defence Act and does not claim that the Director General of the Security Intelligence Service has acted unlawfully, which is another non-reality. It is also false and false to indicate that workers performing security tasks in the Security Intelligence Service have powers under the Law on the duties and powers of the police only when investigating offences. Police powers shall also be used in preventive procedures. In the second paragraph of Article 34, the legislator shall not specifically restrict powers solely for the purposes of investigating offences, but shall also apply powers to the prevention of criminal offences. In the interpretation, investors make it incorrect that firstly, the Chief of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, under the Penal Code, should file a complaint against a known or unknown offender for slander and that only then could the Intelligence Security Service legally collect information. I reiterate that the Intelligence Security Service did not carry out activities under the pre-commanding procedure, as Member Mahnic wishes to present, and that the participants of the interviews have also been informed before; it has carried out the preventive security tasks defined in the first indent of Article 32 of the Defence Act. This is also very well known by Mr Mahnic, who signed the minutes of the Security Intelligence Service on the occasion of his unannounced visit to Knovs. And when we close the meeting of the National Assembly for the public, you will be able to make sure that he was thoroughly aware of what the Intelligence Security Service was doing and that his signature was there. That's how it's about planning to mislead the public again. Nor does it claim that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have not been informed that cooperation is voluntary and that they have the right to anonymity; some have even exercised that right. In the interpretation, it is also false and misleading that the Intelligence Security Service carried out activities on the basis of the oral direction of the Minister of Defence. The Security Intelligence Service shall continuously carry out the tasks defined in the Defence Act. The main tasks are defined by the work programme adopted by the Minister of Defence. On 31 January 2019, the work programme for 2019 was introduced by the Government and was also addressed by Knovs on 19 March 2019. In addition, under Article 33, paragraph 6, of the Defence Act, the Minister laid down rules for the performance of the tasks of the Security Intelligence Service, after prior agreement by the Government. On the basis of that information, the Security Intelligence Service shall carry out its designated tasks in accordance with the law. The report was prepared and signed in an electronic documentary management system that allows traceability, authenticity and integrity. At the end of the examination of the first point of interpolation, it is clear that, on the basis of the above, the ODS did not carry out any intelligence activity in a particular case, but did only carry out a security task, which later proved to be justified, since the Force Commander, Brigadier Škerbinc, was in fact speaking ill of the health condition of Chief General Staff. In a particular case, it did not carry out an intelligence activity, but performed an exclusive security task. It was also not a prognosis procedure. No specific forms of data retrieval or special investigation measures have been used, but only information interviews have been conducted in the preventive security activity to collect safety-indicative alerts that could pose a threat to security in the defence system. The ODS activities carried out were necessary. They confirmed that Brigadier Škerbinc had inappropriately talked about the health status of Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army. More about what he was talking about in a closed session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you, Commissioners and Members, of the indications in paragraph 2 of the Interpretation concerning the violation of the Defence Act, that the powers of the Minister for the Appointment and Resolution of Commanders are laid down in Article 45, paragraph 2, and Article 45, paragraph 4, of the Defence Act. The Minister appoints him on a proposal from the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and thus not only has the authority to appoint him but also has the authority to discharge him. The sixth paragraph of Article 45 of the Defence Act provides, inter alia, that commanders, including the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, shall be appointed and relieved of their duties under this Act without internal and public publication, on the basis of the official requirements laid down by this Act. Pursuant to Article 44 of the Defence Act, the head of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces is responsible for the work and use of all the Command and Units of the Slovenian Armed Forces. On the basis of this responsibility, it must ensure the effective implementation of the mission of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In order for the organisation to be effective, it must have capable, loyal and competent commanders. Now tell me if the commander speaks ill of medical condition, if the commander does not know what is happening to him when he shoots at Poček, whether such a commander is capable, loyal and competent. If this is not the case, this means that the nature of the operation of the military organisation and the need to ensure its effectiveness represent the needs of the service that imposes on the selection and appointment of the relevant command staff; therefore, discharge has been carried out due to official needs. I would like to point out that the Minister can discharge and appoint the most important staff in the hierarchy of the Slovenian Armed Forces on a proposal from the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and subject to that provision of Article 45 of the Defence Act, without giving specific reasons for his decision. Therefore, I repeat, the discussions on what are the concrete reasons for the resolution of Brigadier Šerbinc's commander of forces, are irrelevant and serve only to politicise his resolution. I must say that even the relieved commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Brigadier Škerbinc, has not disputed this by way of service, but in particular stated that he does not deny the right of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces to choose his closest associates, nor does he have the right to appoint and release the Slovenian Armed Forces commanders. I don't know what the problem is, Mr. Mahnic. Even Brigadier Šerbinc does not deny this right, and you deny this right to the Minister and the Chief. The discharge order was issued in accordance with the rules in force. In addition, the right of Brigadier Šerbinc to legal protection on a business basis was consistently respected; he had a discussion with the Chief of Staff. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the responses to the third point of the interpretation concerning shooting at Pocko, I would like to point out first that I have not in any case exceeded my powers to advocate a favourable solution to the issue of military activities at Postojna Central. I have repeatedly highlighted in the public, my orientation to limit night shooting, was known at the General Staff of the Slovenian Army and also to the Commander of Force Brigadier Škerbinc. To make the absurd even bigger, Brigadier Škerbinc confirmed in November the proposal made by former Chief of Staff, Alan Geder, proposed to the Government that the Sokol (Eagle) exercise be implemented with a calibre of up to 60 millimetres. If he didn't know, it's pure deception and he doesn't. The government's decision is quite clear, it's a decision of the 24th government. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The argument made by interpolation investors that the Minister does not have the authority to give direction is incorrect. In particular, it is wrong when it comes to the direction relating to the implementation of the Government's decision. In the specific case, the 2019 Work Plan was confirmed 24. 1. 2019 and on a proposal from Chief of Staff Alan Geder in November 2018, he was confirmed at the Government. The chief of staff was then the Brigadier of Miha Škerbinc. And he's not supposed to know anything about it. In addition to the Government's approval of the exercise plan on 24 January, which means that the content carriers, i.e. the Force Command and the representative of foreign armed forces, should properly coordinate further activities, it is obvious that this has not occurred. Therefore, the claim made by Mr Mahnic that the exercise was carried out in accordance with the Government's approval of 24 does not hold true. 1. 2019 because the government's direction was clear – shooting only up to a.60 millimeter. On the basis of a proposal from the Minister, the Government is 24. 1. 2019 adopted the Plan of Exercise in the Defence System and the System of Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in 2019. It is clear from the decision taken that the Sokol (Eagle) exercise is a tactical exercise through the firing of platoons and the training of aircraft. The 72nd Brigade of the Slovenian Army and the United States Armed Forces were identified as the vehicle responsible for the exercise. As an apprentice, motorized platoon and the 72nd Brigade of the Slovenian Armed Forces were identified with the support of mortars 60 millimetres. In the event of the night shooting at Poček, we also witnessed a derogation from the rules relating to command and assignment. The order is the basis for carrying out the task or activity. When the task is carried out, it is not possible to give additional instructions, as it is complete and the recipient of the order cannot realize something in return. On 4 April 2019, after the exercise was completed, Brigadier Škerbinc sent instructions to subordinate commanders that, in addition to the restrictions contained in the agreement with Postojna, additional restrictions should be added so that the shooting with a.60-millimeter gun should be completed by 23am and the shooting with a.m. range of up to 60 millimetres must be completed by 24pm at the latest. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Sokol (Eagle) exercise was carried out from 22 March to 3 April 2019 and that Brigadier Škerbinc gave guidance on the limitation of shooting only after completion of the exercise. He also directly admitted that he knew the Minister's instructions and that he knew the Government's decision of 24. 1. 2019; and that the argument made by the interpelling investors that he could not have known about the Minister's oral orientation is not true. With regard to the harmful consequences and your apparent change in international agreements and agreements and the related international implications for Slovenia, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Defence has not changed any agreement or agreement. All planned international exercises for 2019 will be carried out. No exercise or joint training due to the decision of Slovenia will be cancelled. Nor did any international agreement foresee a. 120 millimetres shot for the Eagle exercise. It's deceiving again. And once again, the signing authority given does not mean that if it states that Americans will also have a. 120 millimeter calibre, that they will shoot specifically at the Eagle exercise, this authority was not given because the government's decision was extremely clear. As regards the readings referred to in point 4 concerning negative human resources trends in the Slovenian Army. This is a problem that has existed since 2004, since we went to the professionalization of the Slovenian Army. For this reason, I immediately set up a commission to complete the staff and promote the Slovenian Army. Last week was a press conference and you could have heard about these measures, but I can say more below. However, I am very pleased that all these measures are supported by all four unions; not only those three unions that are not politicised. We know that we have one who publicly urges the opposition to invest in interpolation and so on so that I will not be too long in this regard. As far as quitting or not signing a contract for combat vehicles boxer 8 x 8. Yes, of course you would have wanted this, because if I had signed it, today would not have required an interpretation at all, but in criminal proceedings, I would certainly have been at least convicted of a job job. So I understand this desire of yours to sign something that was not prepared in accordance with the rules. There was no law on the long-term financing of this project to assume commitments of 300, 400 million with a two-year budget. Furthermore, there was no tactical study on the middle battalion group. Of course, I believe you'd want to sign that contract. With regard to the patries, it's ridiculous that you're now making it clear that this project was destroyed because of Karl Erjavac. This project was interrupted by your minister at the time of the Janšev government in 2012, Aleš Hojs terminated his contract with the patriots. And I regret to say that this is the only modern capacity that the Slovenian Army currently has — those 30 poor patriots. Since I acted conscientiously and carefully at that time, of course I was not condemned for my job as a bride; what you would obviously want with Project 8 x 8 Boxer. Ladies and gentlemen, of course not from your side, I expect you not to support this interpretation because it does not stand, the legal basis used by the Intelligence Security Service has been correct. I think that the experts in criminal law, in particular the experts in criminal proceedings, are lifted up by their hair when they listen to the explanations of Mr Mahnič, who is obviously imagining that he is an expert in the legal profession. Everything I've said is fine. The legal basis for the operation of the Security Intelligence Service has been provided, and this work has therefore been lawful. Once again, by your vote against the interpretation, my fellow Members, you will say that you oppose the continuation of the politicisation of the Slovenian Army. Unfortunately, in the last ten years, the Slovenian Army has become the subject of a political arena for [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u5	Mr. Minister, thank you for your further explanation. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation by the groups of Members. Before I give the floor to Mr Jožef Horvat of New Slovenia, honourable Member, I ask you that, as each of you individually wishes, when you speak, there are no disturbances on the part of Members and Members; and also on the part of others who speak, you make this possible. I hereby give you my word, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here, you'll have all our attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly, for the floor. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Council of Ministers, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! We need citizens' security for a quality life, so ensuring security is one of the central tasks of the country. The defence system is one of the key to ensuring this security. In Slovenia, the defence system consists of two important subsystems, the defence and the defence and rescue subsystem. The management of the defence system is responsible and difficult, it does not allow improvisation and half solutions. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we are very sad that the defence system has been in crisis for several years, especially this crisis is known in the Slovenian Army, which is a carrier of defence security. Since the financial crisis, the Slovenian Army has not recovered and is in a state that undoubtedly leads to the collapse of the organisation. The Minister of Defence Karl Erjavec is also responsible for this situation. On 13 September 2018, Mr Marjan Sarec's Government was appointed. The Ministry of Defence took over Karl Erjavec, who described all the problems and promised to solve the accumulated problems quickly in his defense of his post. Today, more than nine months after the appointment of Minister Erjavac, the defence system is in a significantly poorer state and the solutions are merely directed and moving forward to the future. Minister Erjavec was effective only in human resources and in the political abuse of the system, which was demonstrated in the abuse of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we demand the discharge of the minister due to direct responsibility for the situation in the system and abuses in the management of the department. We are exposing three of the most critical areas. Firstly, a catastrophic situation in the human resources field in the Slovenian Army. Secondly, unrealised purchases of techniques resulting in the inability to build the Slovenian Armed Forces' core operational units and the failure to meet Slovenia's obligations to NATO and, on the other hand, the threat of helicopter emergency medical assistance. Thirdly, exceeding the powers of the Security Intelligence Service to replace Brigadier Miha Škerbinc. Of course, we agree with all the allegations he made and wrote down by the proposer. First the staffing situation, the critical personnel sub-nutrition of the Slovenian Army. When Minister Erjavec took over the defence area, he highlighted the severe staffing hardship of the Slovenian Army as a problem. In Novi Slovenija we note that the situation has only deteriorated since Minister Erjavac's arrival. The strategic documents suggest that the Slovenian Army should have 7 000 600 members of the regular composition, and today it has less than 6 000 550 members. Similarly, the number of members of the contractual reserve continues to decline dramatically. Minister Erjavec was aware of the problem and did not act. The establishment of a special group dealing with human resources issues is not sufficient. While the group presented its proposals to address the critical human resources situation, the proposals are only proposals. Where implementation is still in practice and where there is still real improvement. Up until now, ministers and ministers have examined, analysed, identified, and there have been no real measures. The previous Chief of Staff's announcement is being fulfilled that the military will no longer see such a downward trend in 2020. The year 2020 is next year. Minister Erjavec has done nothing so far to stop the trend. Otherwise, in New Slovenia we are advocates of the facts, so I call on Minister Erjavac to answer a very simple question: How many members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were there on 13 September 2018 when the mandate came; and how many today? The problem is also a completely damaged relationship between soldiers, officers and officers. The Slovenian army has become an army of high-ranking officers, various commanders and support units. Let's say that in the 36 troops of 1st and 72nd Brigades, which represents an operational part of the military, there should be 3 000 280 members; in fact, there are less than a thousand 857 employees, which means less than 56% completeness. On the other hand, the General Staff is at 82%. Soldiers representing muscles should be 3 000 985. In fact, there are fewer than 2 000 280 employees, which is 57% perfection; while, for example, the colonel's cities are almost 85% complete. It should be stressed, however, that because of the various absences, these are mostly allowances and sick leave, there are more than a thousand people missing in the workplace every day. And what does this mean to ensure the security of citizens? If, for example, only a thousand members of the Slovenian Army were to be sent to the border, an army of such forces in three rotations would no longer be able to provide, or senior officers, including military officials, including secretaries, also athletes, musicians, also chefs, including lecturers, guards, even librarians, in short all. Minister Erjavec has spoken extensively and has not yet taken any action in the entire human resources area. And now, in the context of the staffing situation, there is a failure to rescue soldiers after 45 years of age. In New Slovenia we receive many calls from desperate soldiers who will remain on the road after 45 years. We have asked the government how it intends to solve this problem; we have received the answer that all the problems will be solved by a special group dealing with the human resources problem. The very group that will also address the critical shortage of personnel for the Slovenian Army. In Novi Slovenija, we are bitter over such an attitude toward people who have served in the ministry of the country with honor. Appropriate solutions should be adopted immediately. We do not understand why Morse, for example, does not set up a security service for the protection of buildings, thus deploring the soldiers of the guard's duties and offering soldiers adequate regular employment to the pension after 45 years. The idea of sending soldiers to the law enforcement officers is really interesting. An individual who, due to his age, is no longer mentally fit for a soldier but who is fit to do the same exact hard work that he is obviously still capable of. Even in this case, Minister Erjavec only promises and measures from nowhere. And now the area of purchases of basic combat techniques or helicopters to provide helicopter emergency medical care. Armors first 8 x 8. The purchase of armors 8 x 8 was stopped under Minister Erjavac. As soon as he arrived at Mors, Minister Erjavec began to perform all the necessary tasks in order to buy armors 8 x 8 to cancel or prevent. Minister Erjavec, I claim with all responsibility, kneeled before the Left Group. Why? On August 17, last year, the Committee on Foreign Policy met at its 2nd emergency meeting and discussed government material, namely the Boxer Management Initiative between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms (OCCAR). Let me remind you, dear colleagues and colleagues, this was the day the National Assembly elected the President of the Government or the mandate-holder. At this meeting, the Member of the Left first requested that the point be suspended, and this procedural proposal was not voted on. And then lefty Miha Kordiš said in his debate, among other things, I read the magnetogram: "There we send the Slovenian Army as Nate's imperialist expedition corps for the interests of American corporations. In addition to the fact that the investment in the acquisition of boxers in this Imperial service, the Slovenian Army has a very acute human resources problem, we can go get these boxers, yes, but we do not know who will drive them, when will drive them, how will drive them, given that the Slovenian Army records a large human resources rash. At the same time,” I ask you to listen carefully, “at the same time, I would remember the coalition Members, perhaps – although I do not know how – it has been forgotten, but in two hours or an hour and a half, a meeting of the National Assembly will begin, a plenary meeting, which will be held for the term of office. Start counting the votes a little bit." End of discussion by colleague Kordiša. At that time, of course, the coalition saw this fear that Levica would give up the vote for the mandate, and then the coalition itself suggested that this item of the agenda should be terminated. Colleagues and colleagues, this debate is not a problem, each Member is the master of his own words; the problem is because Erjavec “buyed” the claims of the Left that the Slovenian Army is an imperialist expedition corps in NATO missions. This meeting, as it is said, began on 17 August last year, and then did not proceed in any way, I wrote to the Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, Mr German, in January this year, after five months, how is the continuation of this meeting. Of course, the meeting did not continue because there were no conditions in fact for continuation, since, according to my letter, the Government withdrew this initiative, which was first sent to us for consideration and acceptance. So much for that. And once again, with all my responsibility, I guarantee that Karl Erjavec or the government has kneeled before Levi. Political parties have every right to pursue their political objectives through political means. However, the Minister of Defence is obliged to do whatever it takes to ensure that the defence system works effectively. Armors 8 x 8 are recognized in the Slovenian Army as the backbone of operational units. In the 2005 tactical study, it is specified how many vehicles 8 x 8 the Slovenian Armed Forces need to establish a medium battalion fighting group. Slovenia has committed itself to the NATO allies to establish two such groups, first by 2023. Then, as it is said, Minister Erjavec came to Morse. As soon as the Commissioner was replaced, the new chief found that the Slovenian Army needed a new tactical study, although the Slovenian Armed Forces claimed that the 2005 tactical study was sufficient by 2018, which was until last year. Coincidence, ladies and gentlemen? Coincidence or political guidance? Erjavec then noted with concern that a new tactical study would have to wait and then the White Book on Defence, which will determine the future of the Slovenian Army. In addition, it stated that it was an interpretation of procedural nature and thus suggested a corruption risk of purchase. The well-informed media then expanded a number of misinformation about suspicious purchases of armored equipment 8 x 8 and thus the purchase was cancelled. At the same time, they also wanted to compromise individuals from the previous ministerial team who were really trying to ensure the appropriate weaponry of the Slovenian Army. Let me also, of course, recall here the conclusions of the Government adopted by the previous government regarding the acquisition of these armoured personnel. In Novi Slovenija we don't care what type of armor 8 x 8 Slovenian Army buys, but in recent years from the Slovenian Army and Mors have assured us that they have decided on the best vehicle they would buy without any corruption risks, as the purchase would take place through OCCAR. There is no doubt that OCCAR is a respected and, above all, a non-profit organisation, which, for many members of the Union, then makes purchases of military equipment; it is obviously problematic, indeed problematic for Minister Erjavac. And what does canceling the purchase of armor 8 x 8 mean? Firstly, the Slovenian Army will have at least a few years to go, and it is confident that by 2026 it will lose its key weapons system. The Minister's thoughts on the fact that the battalion's fighting groups are also made up of another technique are possible, but let us point out that the technique to which the Minister thinks is obsolete 30 years ago when we seized the Yugoslav People's Army, and today it is terribly outdated and it belongs to a museum where there are in fact quite a few armoured men. And secondly, Slovenia will again play NATO allies. And how does Minister Erjavec comment on that? In an interview at the beginning of May, he said that we had optimistic timelines. The Minister should be aware that the State of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, has made promises to the allies; and that he is the one who should fulfil the promise because otherwise the country will become an unreliable partner. Ladies and gentlemen, if Minister Erjavec, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, has brought Slovenia's specific weight to nothing in the institutions of the European Union, then it is logical to expect him to do the same within the NATO liaison. Just because we're not a reliable partner. We make a promise, and then it turns out we're holding the minister in our pocket, at least. In Nova Slovenija we believe that the backdrop of 8 x 8 cancellations is irrelevant. Whether it is a political victory of the Left or of any other interests, it does not change the fact that the Slovenian Armed Forces will remain without a key weapon system for many years and that the State of Slovenia will be an unreliable ally that does not fulfil its own commitments. And that is directly the responsibility of Minister Erjavec. And now something about helicopters for helicopter emergency medical care. The purchase of helicopters for helicopter emergency assistance is already a national priority, a national priority. Slovenia has decided that helicopter emergency medical assistance will be provided by the State; after this decision, helicopter emergency medical assistance was provided by police and military helicopters. Due to the length and limitations of its helicopter fleet, the police withdrew from helicopter emergency medical care, leaving all the weight in the Slovenian Army. In addition, it has been repeatedly said that the Slovenian Armed Forces helicopters are mostly old, needing upgrades, primarily for other tasks and that the Slovenian Armed Forces urgently needs new helicopters. The government coalition has already detected problems with helicopter emergency medical assistance when it comes to the formation of a coalition contract and it stated that the fleet of helicopters operating in the areas of protection and rescue and helicopter emergency medical care should be updated. It is not particularly important to note that helicopters dedicated to helicopter emergency medical care save lives daily and are literally vital to the provision of emergency medical care. Minister Erjavec talks a lot about buying helicopters, but he does nothing. His action on this matter demonstrates complete confusion and professional incompetence. Thus, Minister Erjavec at the end of November 2018 promised that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia would buy three Bell helicopters for helicopter emergency medical care. However, the purchase agreement is to be signed, as stated, by the end of 2018 or at the latest at the beginning of 2019. At the beginning of this January, he reiterates that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia will purchase three Bell helicopters and will meet with the Minister of Health and Prime Minister on this subject. The meeting takes place at the end of January and at the meeting Minister Erjavec receives support for the purchase of helicopters, where it is also agreed to buy and perform Mors. At the beginning of May 2019 Minister Erjavec says that the need for helicopter emergency medical care is increasing and that there is currently a military consultation on the purchase of new helicopters; when it is accepted, they will discuss the purchase at the coalition. Clearly Minister Erjavec doesn't know what he's talking about. First, it promises a purchase agreement by the end of 2018, whereas six months later it finds that the purchase procedures have not even begun. Sources from the Slovenian Army claim that they have not agreed on the type of helicopter, let alone the purchase, and Minister Erjavec has been talking about three helicopters Bell for six months. The Minister also repeatedly reiterated that the purchase of three helicopters is recorded in the coalition contract, which is again misleading, since the contract only refers to updating, and this in itself does not mean automatic purchase of new helicopters. Jerjavec talks about finding out about the purchase, then about the need for the agreement of the prime minister he receives; in six months he will find that he will coordinate in the coalition. Does he even know what he's doing? It is quite clear that we need new helicopters for helicopter emergency medical care; and it is quite clear that we have not started the procedures for purchase yet, so that helicopters will not be able to get any more years, and surely we will not get any more. The responsibility for the fiasco rests with Minister Erjavec himself; not with the Government, not with the Minister of Health, not with the Prime Minister, but with Minister Erjavec. It's only by buying helicopters for emergency medical care that the interpolation should be successful. The example of helicopter emergency medical care also clearly shows what confusion and chaos are under the leadership of Minister Erjavac. Now there is something else about the politicization of the Intelligence Security Service and the overriding of powers to replace Brigadier Miha Škerbinc. In addition, Minister Erjavec replaced the Director of Security Intelligence at the time of the Human Resources Rosades. The new director, Dejan Matievich, came into office without serious leadership experience, with lack of expertise, but with good personal knowledge. As soon as he left for the ODS, he started with an extensive staff cleaning, which brought individuals without adequate knowledge and, above all, without adequate experience. Such recruitment has led to a dispersion in the service, with the consequences of professional errors, such as the overstatement of powers in the event of the investigation of Brigadier Miha Škerbinc. In New Slovenia, we support the Commission's findings on the supervision of intelligence and security services and the conclusions adopted there. The ODS conducted an investigation against Brigadier Miho Škerbinc on the basis of the first indent of Article 32(2) of the Defence Act, which states in the second paragraph: “The security tasks in the defence area are, first indent, the detection, investigation and prevention of threats to the safety of designated persons, jobs, facilities and environments used by the Ministry and the Slovenian Armed Forces in or outside the country, as well as information on the development or production of certain military weapons or equipment.” Therefore, as stated in the defence of its procedures, the Intelligence Service has detected a threat to the safety of certain persons, jobs and facilities, the environment. The Intelligence Security Service claims to have detected a threat to the safety of the post of Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. This raises a problem, namely, how the alleged slander threatened the safety of the job. The threat to the security of the post of Chief of Staff would, for example, be the preparation of an action to remove the Chief of Staff and the violent takeover of the leadership of the military; this is not supposed to be slander. Let him know who can. Condemnation shall be prosecuted if it is a military person, at the request of the injured person, as a criminal offence defined by the Penal Code. In the case of the Security Intelligence Service they did not do so, but on the Minister's oral instructions the security officers investigated the event. It is still unclear how Brigadier Škerbinc would also potentially slander the above-mentioned security. It is also unusual that Minister Erjavac’s complication, which in his response report indicated that the Intelligence Security Service had initiated the procedures — itself initiated the procedures — in accordance with the Defence Act; while the Director General of the Security Intelligence claimed that the investigation had been ordered by the Minister himself. Let him know who can. In Novi Slovenija we see that such slander or other slander in the Slovenian Army is great. It also appears in the media, so we expect the Intelligence Security Service to present a number of cases of investigations in the past year; but it shows that only one person has been investigated, which suggests a clear political background. And the conclusion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the end, let me say that in Novi Slovenija we do not believe that the White Book of Defence, which is so widely announced by Minister Erjavec, will change anything for the better. She won't change. The White Paper should have been presented six months ago, but it is clear from this document that Minister Erjavec does not know what he is doing. The military experts ensure that the only task of this study is to officially reduce the number of regular members of the Slovenian Army from 7 000 600 to 6 000 or less. Otherwise, whatever they will write in the White Paper will be too optimistic if we take into account the conclusion of Minister Erjavac; and this will, in his logic, be a reason not to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable, citizens and citizens, it is a time of high ethical standards and a time of low ethical standards. Minister Marko Bandelli, Minister of Jure Leben, our colleague Dr. Darius Krajčič and his social experiment on the place of the sandwich are examples that fall within the time of high ethical standards. Now it's Karl Erjavac's time, and now it's time for low ethical standards. At last year's national elections, he was already told by voters and voters. Colleagues and colleagues, today will be on the test of the integrity of members of the National Assembly, our integrity. Integrity is integrity, consistency, honesty, honesty, credibility. A person with integrity is a person who says what he thinks and does what he says, in accordance with moral standards and applicable law. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats do not agree to low ethical standards in the highest political functions in the country. And we do not agree that the highest political functions occupy persons without integrity. That is why Karl Viktor Erjavec must leave the ministerial chair because of proven irregularities and violations of Slovenian law. We'll support the interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u7	Thank you, honourable Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Andrej Reich, you will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Council of Ministers, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! Today we are considering the eligibility of the submitted interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Defence, Karl Viktor Erjavac. We could say that this is some sort of remainder of the campaign, as the proposal was tabled early in May this year. In the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, we have examined the reasons for the interpretation and the reply of the Minister to it. After the discussion, we assessed that the reasons were not sustainable enough to support the intervention against the Minister. According to the opinion of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek responded to all four allegations with a reasoned reply and sufficient explanations. He ensured that the Force Commander was relieved of his concerns about the effectiveness of the military organisation, which is a fundamental duty of the Minister of Defence. There has been no abuse of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence. In the framework of its work, the Security Intelligence Service has detected and acted in accordance with its mandate. It follows from the ODS report that the activities carried out were necessary, appropriate and legal. The Minister also argues that in this case it was not an intelligence activity, but an OPCW performed an exclusive security task. And since the Minister of Defence is responsible for the effective functioning of the Slovenian Army and the elimination of security threats, Mors has all the powers to activate the Security Intelligence Service. I also consider the answer to the 3rd point to be justified. The Minister clarified all the circumstances of the night shooting at the Poček exercise and denied the claim that the exercise was carried out in accordance with government approval. It recognises, however, that the guidelines were given only orally but that Brigadier Škerbinc was informed of these guidelines. Last year, we signed an agreement with the government's coalition partners, which, among other things, defines the relationship between members of the coalition. The agreement entails an obligation to act in the event of interpretation against individual ministers and trustees and non-trustees to the government. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we will also respect our commitments in this case. We have repeatedly stressed the need for a coalition treaty to be respected in pensions and health care, and we must also respect the agreement not to overthrow our own ministers. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we will insist that, as a coalition, we gradually raise the dose to 63%, set an annual allowance at two levels, and enable those pensioners who want to do so to work. We're not giving up on that under any circumstances. The same applies to the elimination of inadmissible waiting periods in health care and the provision of quality and equal health care. Finally, I would like to add that respect for the commitments made in the coalition agreement is also expected from the other partners. With regard to today's interpretation, if it turns out that the Minister of Defence has indeed violated his powers, he will have to be judged by the Prime Minister of the Government on whether or not he still trusts him. In doing so, we expect him to use the same vats as the ministers who had to leave their position in the government. We will support the Minister of Defence, Karl Erjavac, in the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u9	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Franc Jurša is next on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u10	Thank you. I say hello to everything! We must certainly congratulate the interpolation investor for the originality of the idea. How to maintain the level of adrenaline in this mandate and at the same time commend it for the creative birthday gift received by the Minister of Defence. Karl Viktor Erjavec is not a naive and foolish man, and he is even less like the Minister of Defence. More than successfully, the Defence Resource has been managed between 2004 and 2008. At the time, interestingly, he was not interpolated. Interpellation was part of the role of Minister of Foreign Affairs and has been successful and has proved to be responsible, lawful, conscientious and concerned about the welfare of the State wherever it works. We should all be looking for the last one. At the end of today, we will see who really cares about the country and who hides behind the various receptions that lead to the deterioration of relations in the political arena, not to speak of intimidation in the social context. Yes, we agree that interpellation is a tool that serves its primary purpose – it is a verification of the legal, legitimate and responsible functioning of the government or of a specific minister. That these are the mechanisms of the rule of law by which the legislative branch can reach the executive branch of power if there is reasonable suspicion of its illegal and irresponsible conduct. In our parliamentary group, we ask ourselves whether the opposition is so weak and insulted that it wants to break down the Minister of Defence with interpretation instead of constructive proposals and consequently the minority government. Are the early elections the real motive that the proponent used the most cunning, low-tempered methods to raise popularity on the scale of slander, defamation of the opponent?Oh, my God! Even more controversial in this particular interpretation is the fact that this is not only a verification of confidence in the Minister of Defence, but a threat to the protection and security of the citizens of this country as a whole. This interpretation is mainly politics, not a specific institution of parliamentary control with the Constitution. Hypocrisy and misappropriation as acknowledged by the proposer to the Minister are consumed in the types of proposer. Let us continue with the content of the interpretation that Minister of Defence Karl Viktor Erjavec faces today. His proposal is clear, I point out by point: the abuse of the Intelligence Security Service, the violation of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, the responsibility for overstepping jurisdiction, fraud and lying in the case of night shooting at the training of the Slovenian Army Poček, acts in the execution of a political function which result in lost confidence in the role of minister and institution in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. Before I begin to explain the groundlessness of the interpolation points burdened by the Minister of Defence, I would like to present an explanation of the civil-military relations of the former Minister of Defence, Dr Jelusic, who is certainly also aware of the proposaler. The text of the interpellation refers to the Minister's ignorance of the regime of civil-military relations in Slovenia. There are two types of relations, both parliamentary and partocratic. In the previous common country, we knew exactly the Partocratic type of civil-military relations where one political party had control over the military. Fortunately, we have succeeded in introducing a parliamentary type of relations, based on past experience and increasingly loud demands on the depoliticisation of the military. This application of the principle of belonging to all political parties in a way that does not belong to any of the parties. Regardless of the type of organization in which individual armed forces are located, we need to know that there is no army in the world where they do not know hierarchy and subordination. Without these two elements, their survival, in particular in armed conflicts, is null. The rules of service in the Slovenian Army are clear and are mainly written down. I would like to draw further attention to the Commission's disputed practice of monitoring intelligence and security services in the National Assembly in this particular case, as there is a reasonable suspicion that the Commission has been abused for the purposes of political accounting and gathering political points of some of its members. The question arises whether there has been an excessive border setting out where its powers go. It is essential that we ensure an independent approach to verifying the facts being investigated by the Commission and thus maintain the credibility we need to ensure successful parliamentary control. The fact that its President or Vice-President publicly disclosed data of an internal nature is no longer a sign of the credibility of the Commission’s leadership or functioning. Is it acceptable that, at a press conference following a closed-door commission, he waved a document that was not obtained by an authorized person or Ministry of Defence, but by the interrogated Brigadier Mih Škerbinc? Brigadier Miha Škerbinc is not authorised by the Slovenian Armed Forces or by the Ministry to transmit such a document to the Commission or even the public. It is also very unusual that Brigadier Miha Škerbinc is willing to defile himself by discussing himself, the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and his discharge, and involving the Slovenian Army union and leaving a mark on all other members and members of the Slovenian Army who do not really need it. None of his predecessors did that. Milka Friday, replaced by Brigadier Škerbinc, left without a big pump. He took his responsibility and left the post of Commander of the Force Command with his head raised. This also points to a good degree of impropriety of certain members of the Commission who voted in favour of the investigation of certain indictees and acts only after the reply given by Minister of Defence Karl Viktor Erjavec in the National Assembly. Asking Vice-President Knovs Jean Mahnič on behalf of the journalist of POP TV: Is it not all about finding the responsibility of the Minister of Defence rather than identifying what, if they have done anything wrong, those who Knovs oversees?; the Vice-President of Knovs replied that the Minister was drawing arguments for his defence from five veins, that he was cornered and that he was kneeling more than ever. At the same press conference, the Vice-President also set out to comment on the way in which the European Commissioner was elected and to provide support to the President of the Government. Only then did the journalist reply that the basis for Knovs’ operation in this case is Article 32 of the Defence Act: We can invite anyone who is a civil servant in Knovs to the hearing. There's Jean-Mahnich. So I ask what the arguments from the five veins and the European Commissioner have in common with the misuse of intelligence and security services, by releasing the Commander of the Force, by shooting at Poček, with relations in the Slovenian Army. The minister's response is extensive. As it would not be, the points in which the proposer places it on the trust technique are also substantively extensive. It shows that the applicant has put himself in the role of a judge before he has previously examined whether there is a valid basis for his doubts. At the first point of the interpretation, the Minister of Defence replied that the activities carried out were necessary, appropriate and legal. Commenting on the health situation of the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces or any other member of the Slovenian Armed Forces is contrary to the Service Rules in the Slovenian Army. Commenting or any other public discussion shall be regarded as an intervention in individual privacy and shall also constitute an intervention in extremely sensitive personal data. As I mentioned earlier, the rules are written and must be respected. Since it was a security-indicative phenomenon that began to build confidence between members and members of the capacity of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Intelligence Security Service of the Ministry started collecting information with authorised representatives. Indeed, this is the basis in the Law on Police Tasks and Powers and possibly the interpellationers therefore conclude that it was a forecasting procedure. The collection of information on such an event falls within the scope of the regular tasks of the Security Intelligence Service under Article 32 of the Defence Act. ODS personnel empowered to carry out security tasks shall carry out activities on a continuous basis to prevent threats to the safety of certain persons, jobs and the defence system as a whole. Thus, it is not held that the ODS had no legal basis for performing its duties in this particular case. The collection of information on the basis of this does not constitute a forecasting procedure. With regard to the second point, since the Minister was held responsible for the violation of Article 45a of the Defence Act and Article 38, Article 39 and Article 40 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, the Minister's reply makes clear which procedures were used for the reasoned discharge of the Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Brigadier Miha Škerbinc. Sam refers to him as being disturbed by the way he was resolved. Sadly, his name appears everywhere in these days, but more than being sorry and trying to get out of this trouble, he strives even harder to talk about it. They say: Better bad publicity than no publicity. However, in this case it will not achieve the desired effect. Something extremely bizarre has happened, which, according to our Group of Members, is indeed proof of the politicisation of certain structures in our armed forces. I do not remember that at any time he would have heard or witnessed the agitation of the military union to interpolate for the discharge of any commander or Chief of General Staff at home or abroad under the pretext that there is populism among the employees of the Slovenian Army and it is a violation of the reputation of the organisation of employees in the Slovenian Army. Isn't that the way the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia treats people more than obvious evidence of the populism that comes from their President's mouth? And don't tell me this union isn't politicized?Oh, my God! I would also like to point out that the Ministry and the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces have done everything to ensure that conditions for the provision of quality command and control are not lost, and when the existing Commander of the Force Command is dissolved he has appointed a new one. In order to meet this social need, the Ministry does not need a public or internal publication. In addition, the position of the Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces Force is a formational duty, not subject to an employment relationship. In the third point of the interpretation, the Minister is clearly responsible for the excess of authority, deception, lying in the event of night shooting at the training of the Slovenian Army Poček. So that I will not repeat the words recorded in the Minister’s reply, I will say just the following: the Sokol exercise has been going on since 22. Three to three. 4. 2019. Commander of the Force Commander Miha Škerbinc issued an order banning the firing of calibres of more than 60 millimetres. 4. 2019. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 24. 1. 2019 adopted a plan of military exercises, including the Sokol exercises involving members and members of the United States Armed Forces. At this point, I will allow myself to quote from the minister's reply: "All participants in the planned joint training must be well aware of the rules and procedures to be applied during training. So also foreign armed forces." We conclude from this that the instructions and orders have not been followed and respected. However, even if there has been a derogation from the agreed rules, the responsible commanding officer should ensure that they are established in a timely manner. The Ministry’s relations with Postojna have already deteriorated in one way or another, and even though the municipality unilaterally withdrew from the agreement with the Ministry, it was extremely unwise, and — I apologize — to take an enormously insane risk of even shooting with a weapon of a size of 60 millimetres, at night or early in the morning. Understandably, in the middle of the night, a terrible anger fell on the host. On the fourth point, however, we would like to point out some other important factors that affect the functioning of the Slovenian Army in the Desus Group. Firstly, these findings, cited by the proposer, are against the interest of the State of Slovenia. If there is, at the Ministry of Defence, after years of neglect and oppression, you are working hard to improve the operation and pay conditions in the Slovenian Army. To make no mistake, tightening the belt was the only and right decision in a time of economic crisis. We say no differently, but the area of defence and security has been dealt with rather than a piece of bread a long time ago. We agree that our armed forces need to be provided with conditions so that they can carry out their tasks at home and around the world in a secure and secure manner. Secondly, not only pay, but also professional skills, equipment and, finally, healthy and respectable relationships are needed in the Slovenian Army. Thirdly, the purchase of 8 x 8 war vehicles was suspended, as the tactical study for the battle vehicles boxer was already done in 2005, but for the motorized battalion and not for the needs of the middle battle group, which we want to form and equip with appropriate systems. Also, the Ministry could not put this purchase in the two-year planning of the state budget, as 300 million investments cannot be covered in such a short time. Here we had to take the right step and also consider the possibility of taking commitments over a longer period of time, even if our objective is to raise defence spending by 2024 to 1.5% of the gross social product. In the Desus Group, we believe that this interpretation is more farce and a play by the proposaler to undermine the efforts of the Minister of Defence, the Government and the rest of the government teams so that Slovenia can finally breathe with full lungs. It is a manifesto of certain individuals who want to satisfy their egos and bring ideological discord to where it does not belong. To avoid misunderstandings, we strongly oppose unity, but the politicisation of the military, and even less of the supervisory authorities watching over the defence system, are simply unacceptable and unacceptable. Therefore, honourable fellow Members, we will not support this interpretation in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u12	Good afternoon! This interpretation should not be at all today, because Mr Erjavec should not be Minister of Defence at all. He proved very bad several times as a minister; he was a bad minister of defense, he was a bad minister of environment and space, and he was a bad minister of foreign affairs. And yet he is now sitting here, and with one of the most important segments of every country, in the military, he is having problems. I'm not going to repeat what's already been said, but I'm going to look a little wider at his actions. The fact is, the Slovenian Army has never been at such a low level before. The Slovenian army has no soldiers, but of course it has a huge number of officers. And if we look, when we take pictures of officers, there's more gold on the shoulders than the entire United States Army. But we don't have soldiers and we won't have them as long as they run the ministry. The Slovenian proverb says: Such a leader, such an army. And if we have such a minister, we can't expect to have a better army. It was promised before the elections that Mr Minister would stand up for the recruitment system. He forgot about that. The recruitment system is a solution for the country, a solution for the military, a solution for national identity and a solution for our young people to grow into men, men; without any kind of kilowatt an intermediate option that our leaders want to lead to, I don't know, Europe, Europe or beyond Europe. Thank God we have at least half of Europe certain smart countries in the Visegrad Group, and in Russia, where they want men, but not know what men, as some say women would be half men and half women, and then there would be three variants of this. We have a professional army system. Instead of having an army recruitment system and thereby resolving three-quarters of the problems in the Slovenian Army, we have professionals who are poorly paid and even less equipped. And one wonders how a professional who is an army of his own will act in behalf of his own country if he has no consciousness; but he is only interested in how much he will receive. And if the neighbor pays him more, he'll just go to the army on the other side. This is the case that was deliberately destroyed in the Slovenian Army. Destroy the recruitment system so that we can then control any army from certain positions of power outside the country. It was promised that this would change; Mr Erjavec immediately forgot. In the Slovenian Army, we see today the complete absence of military spirit and the total breakdown of military morality. We don't have that. Instead of responding to the commission’s call to come to witness according to the hierarchical system, the chief did not do so. That didn't happen. Then what is Parliament?Oh, my God! Parliament doesn't mean anything either. Whether it is a matter of negotiating with one another over a cup of coffee when the minister determines what to do and what not to do or what it would make sense to do and where it makes sense to go and where not to do it. If we look ahead. What did Mr. Minister do about soldiers who had reached the age of 45? Nothing. The Slovenian National Party has not only once written proposals for these soldiers to be reclassified as police officers and thus to resolve the problem of missing police officers. And the employability of these soldiers. Mr. Secretary, by the way, he's down for these things. The main thing is that he's sitting in a ministerial chair and he's having a nice time; but that's too little for an army. It's not an army! These campers aren't even in that kind of leadership. And then the worst threat to the Slovenian country are some with paintball rifles and axes on the shoulder – Šiškova Štajerska varda. Madonna Santa, where do we live?Oh, my God! Where do we live? Soldiers are getting smaller and fewer, because it's not weird. Who's going to be among the campers who drop a gun off his hand at two and are no longer soldiers? A soldier is a soldier or nothing. But not that he is a professional in the army, and as long as he is, he is: but after the 45th year he is thrown into the road. There are many examples in Europe of how these things are arranged, and even more so elsewhere, outside Europe. But no, we're not gonna watch this, we're gonna have to have one shit, we're gonna have to be hanged with decorations, of course. I don't know where our officers got so many medals, but none of them were at any combat event. Most of them don't even know where the bullet goes. And let the Slovenian army and the army be the leader of the man who sits behind me and who has already shown once that he is incompetent; and now the second time he will show that he is incompetent; although I fear that this interpretation will fail, for the ruling coalition will protect its positions, and that is a fact. But it makes sense that these things are said. A few soldiers went to the border, of course. But how? Without authorization. A soldier can't do anything. A migrant can be beaten, beaten, spitted, stabbed with food brought to him by NGOs, water thrown into his head, and no soldier can even help a policeman. The police officer doesn't have the authority, and the soldier doesn't have the authority. Then what's he doing? And what is the essence of the army? The essence of the army is to protect the state border. The police are protecting the country within borders, but our minister doesn't know that either, because he doesn't know the basic concept because they didn't teach him this at Dr. Edward Kardel's Law School in Ljubljana. Cardell said the country was on vacation. It seems that the Slovenian state is in fact in rest because of people such as Mr Erjavec. He's not the only one, but there's quite a few. It is also important to ask about the number of officers. The officers are more than soldiers. Now shall not every soldier have over himself, for instance, a captain or a captain, but he shall have a colonel; and the colonel shall lead the waters of ten soldiers. Where? To wait, where they're going to shoot or not to shoot, or they're going to fight a little bit, who's going to shoot and what's going to shoot. That's not serious. And the whole world is taking us for granted. And our army, where we stand for some strange concepts that even the minister doesn't understand, because he can't understand them, we're not going to know what. The concept of military strategy itself, the defence strategy of Slovenia is completely flawed. It is set on American foundations and processed at the level of Dutch-German cooperation where it is flat. It would be nice if our gentlemen could take a little ride across Slovenia and see that we have a rather hilly land and that our forest paths are much narrower, as broad Hummer or as many eight-wheelers. But we're going to be buying eight-wheelers instead of small mobile units with four rocket launchers and deploying it around. Rapid mobility could make the coverage of our territory absolutely better. And that's the only system of warfare that's afraid of him as American as the Russian side. But no; we're not doing this because we're going to write one White Book. I don't know why the White Paper is, the military color is quite different than the white one, but maybe it's already an indication of some intention that the white sheets don't have to be put up, so we'd rather lift the white books if someone comes if the Croats hit across the border. And then it happens that our military intelligence is listening to what the soldiers are saying. It's strange that they didn't even introduce this tumultuous hate speech. If a soldier tells anyone else – "Mother in the mother fucker" – then – her hate speech, let us explore him, let us search him, let us report him and let him pay the penalty. Let's go in like kneeling on corn for four hours. We've come so far. Is that the army? Please. And that's someone who runs the army, a minister who should be a real child, say so and so, and so on and so on. This is where it shakes, whether it goes through or not. I can comfort him, but the interpolation won't work, because it's clear that it won't work, but we need to know how and what. This military intelligence service, I have not received any reports to report on what Croats are thinking about our military, what their military assessments of the readiness of the Slovenian Army are, what their assessments of defence capabilities and weapons capabilities are, as far as our military is concerned. That's what they should find out, not listen to what soldiers say to each other. We could make a short course, maybe from some American movies, how soldiers are trained there, and what is the hierarchical attitude of a senior officer against the lower and the soldiers; however, the inserts would be made and sent to the minister to see it. And I would see that military intelligence was supposed to do something different, but not in this way as with us, when we were being investigated, whether someone said someone was sick, or not saying someone was sick; or whether he said that he had only a blister on his leg, or maybe even a sciatica. These are strange things, very strange things, and then, of course, the effectiveness of the military is not. And the military is one of the foundations of the statehood of every country. One wonders if some people even care that the Slovenians have a country. I doubt it all the time, and I'd just say that some are planning to destroy Slovenia to the end, then end the army. The professionalization of the military was already a step in this direction, and if we looked only to Austria, we would see that the recruitment system remained there and people at the referendum confirmed it. And we also have people, normal people, not people from certain political spheres, but normal people thinking that we need to bring this back. The Slovenian nation is falling apart, disintegrating with purpose, falling apart by command, decomposing to destroy the Slovenian nation. And what? Of course, the only thing that will happen is the hate speech that will save us. Yeah, some will save the hate speech and some short pants, some will save you. But surely not the real ones. And I still think that in the Slovenian nation there is a lot of real spirit, including a fighting spirit, including a spirit that would bring young people into the army with desire. But what he's going to do in the army, for the first time, he doesn't even know what's going to happen after 45 years, he doesn't even know what he's going to do, except we're going to read in a newspaper of the Slovenian Army, in the middle of the ever-long column of various decorations; I don't know what. In JLA you received the award of a "fit soldier", but this was given to say every four thousand soldiers or something; not everyone like us. If he doesn't get this month, he'll get another month. And then the giggles, when our officers are not all, but some of our officers are taking pictures with foreign officers and then watching who they are and who they are. And then there are those who had so many and so many fighting actions, our biggest fighting action was shooting at Poček. It's sad what's happening, it's really sad. And I think we should make a lot of cuts here, too, and crack these things. Moreover, one would expect more emphasis in the military on nationality. Not to be taught any, but not to be taught, but to talk about some strange historical facts, where there is half fictional, half unspoken, half confused; but no one dares to say the truth out loud. [[…]] And yet, the only truth is that the Slovenian nation will be able to clean, flush and bring to the right level. It is clear, however, that this will have to be done here in Parliament first. Here in Parliament, dear fellows. After the news, it is no longer said to a respected colleague, but to respectable colleagues; something will have to be changed. You should read some book, you should read some book by Slovenian authors, not say Pika Nogavička, but say Bajka and tell about the Gorjanci. However, no one reads this because there is hate speech; they are likely to change that too. The Slovenian army with the White Book will gain nothing, absolutely nothing. There's no concept. There's no concept. The shooting, it seems, will be over. The weapons are horrifying; thank God there are old AKs in the warehouses that are good. And one wonders how it is possible that Slovenia has even acquired Belgian F2000 S. Why? It's also one piece of shit that needs to be cleaned up. The fact is, it was an experimental model. This experimental model was paid by the Slovenian State to the Belgian company Herstal and then the Slovenian state bought these experimental rifles back for big money. It's an unusable artifact that's great for collectors, but it's a bad field war, it sucks. Interestingly, all arms manufacturers pay for the development of weapons themselves; and when they put these weapons into use by a unit, this unit gets weapons free of charge, ammunition free of charge and much more to control the use and use of these weapons. It went the other way around. We've paid for development, we've bought guns and now we're going to replace them, thank God. But why? Because the Ministry is lying about not being shot for it. We're shooting enough, but the weapon sucks, so we have to do it. But where is the military intelligence service to reveal who ordered these guns, who demanded all these things to be carried out, and why Mr. Erjavec did not ask questions about this matter. As a minister, you should ask that. And he didn't ask, and he didn't ask a lot of questions. The effectiveness of the Slovenian Army is the most important thing, the most important. That's what we have to rely on. The state stands and exists in military power. Military power doesn't need to have any bombers or anything; this concept can be different. I said before: small mobile units, helicopter units, anti-aircraft missiles; but that's too much to think about, because on the FDV they probably don't know what the S-400 missile system is. I don't know if they know. I don't think so, but you can Google it, and you'll find it. Or what a Buratino bomb is. They won't know. It's a Russian thing. They don't know Cyrillic. They don't know how to write it. And then people like that, they're giving us a hard time. Madonna Santa, it's not an army anymore, it's such a joke. And since it's a joke and it's a laugh, a funny laugh, we're gonna support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u14	Despite the new times, I remain a traditionalist. For this reason, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the ministerial assembly, would also welcome Prime Minister Marjan Sarc, and I see that his chair is empty today, he has obligations in Brussels. I could have sent one of the five vice-presidents who are not participating in this meeting today, but this is his decision. When the minister takes office, he swears: “I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.” This oath is also formalized. Its greatest importance is the minister’s social, public commitment, which speaks of the value of trusting that his actions and words, or opinions, will be based on facts and truth. Thus, according to words and actions, the public assesses the credibility of someone who is entrusted with work in the common good. To begin with, let me mention two real opportunities relating to today's debate on interpolation and perhaps the easiest way to tell when someone's credibility is lost; or to tell why the public believes in someone else, but not in another way. Let's move out a few years ago. One cold winter day in February, a high-ranking military officer in the army was waiting with his soldiers for an order. Because he knew the order would come sooner or later, but if they were ready in advance, the help that many expected and waited for would come faster. This time it was not a military conflict, but it was to help people who were struck by natural disasters. And the order has indeed come. Only then did the soldiers under the leadership of their commander leave the barracks and go to help the people. But they made time, and they helped as quickly as they could. It was 2014, a stomach, a high military officer – Brigadier Miha Škerbinc. Taists, now the former, by means of violations of the law and public personal discredit by Minister Karl Erjavc on 5 April this year the relieved commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces Brigadier Miha Škerbinc, who was publicly accused by Minister Erjavec of disobeying orders that he acted on his own fist and rhetorically asked him whether he would shoot Postojna next time. On the postojna where Miha Škerbinc was among the first to jump to help people in 2014. This statement by Minister Erjavac would, in my opinion, be sufficient to give up. And second chance, let's take a look a few years ago. It was written in 2005, then the Minister of Defence became President of the political party Desus, the Democratic Party of the Retired Slovenia. The media revealed that he was still a member of another political party, LDS, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, at the same time as President Desus. The new President of Desus freely said that he paid the bills and paid the membership fee to the LDS when he got the ticket. This senior political official was Karl Viktor Erjavec. But we can only come back a year ago, in time before the state elections. At one of the public confrontations Karl Erjavec for Marjana Šarca said: The new face is a new fraud. And he's done it one more time. A few months later, he signed a coalition agreement with this fraud. There are many events in the past that say that Karl Erjavac cannot be trusted. In particular, he cannot be trusted when he is denied the facts. In politics, credibility is the most important thing. Trust is important. This is the only and most powerful capital a man needs if he wants to work successfully on the political floor. As long as people believe in politics or as long as they believe what they say and do, politics, and even more so the policy entrusted to it by all government, can be successful. Like this capital, such a man is no longer in politics, but above all in a highly exposed place in the government he has nothing left to do. Its shares are devalued and have no value left. He becomes an easy prey for such and other lobbies, a man without a spine who executes what the nets expect him to do; not what is right. And he spends most of his time and energy defending his own position. Interpellation is therefore primarily a tool that could help the prudent Prime Minister of the Government improve his team in providing a better and more efficient work. It is much easier for the Prime Minister to see to it that a minister is resigned if the mirror is set by the opposition, than if it is forced to do so on his own. The actions of Minister Erjavac say that it is not only objective but also subjectively responsible for the violations that are being reported to the signatories of the interpretation. Faced with as much evidence and facts as there is in this case, the Minister, who feels responsible for people and the State, and in this case also for the Slovenian Army, would resign himself. During the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, even though not a year had passed, the ministers resigned because of much smaller things. Mark Bandelli, because he sent inappropriate SMS messages and published some inappropriate tweet here and there, was a fan of fast driving, which enables a blue flashing light. And he was retired, he was second-rate. Dejan Prešiček was resigned because he once transported instruments to his daughter in the Ministry's car. Since he persisted for too long, he was severely discredited by media being held responsible for the death of a ministerial official who committed suicide. Several hundred civil servants, who also have vehicles for private use, transport in the country’s cars not only instruments, but also those vehicles to the sea, winter skiing and so on. Dejan Prešiček was also dismissed after grave prior public discreditation, and he was second-rate. What about Karl Viktor Erjavec, where it is not small, innocent, irrelevant matters, but for the abuse of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, for the deception, lying and deliberate public disgrace and discrediting of a high military official, whom he should be proud of the Minister and the Slovenian Army. Only because of the latter should Karl Erjavec leave the position he holds today. However, he did not give up, nor did he give up. So Karl Erjavec is first-class. Second-rate ministers have been dismissed in the Sharchev government, even if they have not done anything illegal, in fact any minor inadequacies. But first-class people can break the law, publicly discredit their closest associates; nothing happens to them. Many past actions and rich careers, as well as a small opportunity from my opening work, speak of Brigadier Miha Škerbinc as a man who would never act on his own fist. Brigadier Škerbinc is a man who wouldn't even think for a moment if he had to defend his country. It is a man who, if necessary, would give to his country what is most valuable — his life. Such people are becoming more and more rare, but unfortunately their discreditation is too common. It is totally unacceptable that it happened by the Minister of Defence. Although there have been so many unethical and immoral practices in the case of Minister Erjavac that he should have given up because of them, I should briefly state why the Minister is not convincing or not successful in explaining the readings in the four points of the interpolation. The cause of a series of inappropriate, even illegal, ministerial actions was two events that took place in March or early April. Rumours about the health condition of Chief General of the Slovenian Army Alenke Ermenc, who also received the media drive, and night shooting at the Poček military exercise. Regarding the latter, the minister needed a sinful goat to protect his back or his position. Events show that this sinful goat is supposed to be even Alice Ermenc first, and in the end, it became the Brigadier of Miha Škerbinc. However, because the documents do not support the theory that Miha Škerbinc acted contrary to the Minister's guidelines, because there were no such guidelines; there was a need to find a second reason and a Brigadier was accused of rumours about the health status of Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army, Alenka Ermenc. The eyewitnesses against Minister Erjavac are in four points. The first point refers to night shooting at the Poček military exercise. Here the facts are clear and come from a number of documents. Brigadier Škerbinc acted in accordance with interstate plans, government conclusions, signed orders and guidelines of the General Staff or Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Minister Erjavec has given no other directions, nor can he give them to the Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces Command, only the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces or the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. That was not the case. That's what the Chief of Staff said. Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec also deceived the public with lies that he did not know about shooting heavy calibers at the Poček military exercise. The fact is that the Minister of Defence signed a joint training plan between the Slovenian Army and the United States Armed Forces in December 2018. The Annex to this authorisation also contained detailed information on how to shoot at this exercise. This document, signed by Minister Erjavec, states that at the exercise it will be fired with a minimum of 60, 81 and 120 millimetres. The Minister of Defence also signed a training agreement with the United States Armed Forces because it was clearly written on what to shoot. Today's claims that the instructions to shoot up to 60 and not more are ridiculous. Do you think they secretly brought these hoodies to the military training station, beyond the knowledge of the state, the minister?Oh, my God! I think these are indeed unworthy statements made by one minister. Also in the report of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which was made on 30 March this year at the request of Minister Erjavc, it was found that there was no violation of the rules; therefore, the Chief did not propose the discharge of Brigadier Miha Škerbinc for reasons of guilt. That the Minister of Defence Karl Erjavec and the public didn't know that there would be activity at the Poček military exercise is also a lie. The Ministry of Defence or the Slovenian Armed Forces announced that in March they would stick to the agreement from which the Municipality of Postojna resigned less than a year ago and that the night shooting would take place four times in March, on 25, 26, 27 and 28 March, with the first three days fired by 3 a.m. and the last day by midnight. This exercise was also confirmed in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and was conducted in accordance with a government decision. As Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces Command, Miha Škerbinc carried out the orders imposed on him by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The Minister of Defence was therefore a signatory to at least two international documents defining the details of this particular shooting. Such a way of modifying the agreement and agreements, which happened later, is also questionable and controversial for our allies and will have negative international consequences for Slovenia, as exercises are planned over a longer period of time and these agreements cannot be changed overnight. At this point, Minister Erjavac is overstepping his powers, misleading and lying. The eyewitnesses couldn't be contradicted. He's been denied the documents. The second point concerns the abuse of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. The law provides that the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia is an organisational form of the Ministry of Defence, which has its own exposures in the Slovenian Army. Its operation is governed by Article 32 of the Defence Act. The Service shall collect data and information in the context of carrying out counter-intelligence and security tasks, produce analytical and operational assessments to support the performance of military headquarters security tasks, draw up plans for the use of the military and other defence equipment and for the planning and implementation of defence measures. In the case referred to above, when it came to rumors of the health status of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the security sector of the service carried out information talks on the basis of the first indent of the second indent of Article 32 of the Defence Act of the Slovenian Armed Forces Command, in violation of the Defence and Abuse Act of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence. Mr Matijevic, Director of the ODS, also confirmed that they acted on the provisions of the Defence Act which stipulates, quote: “The security tasks in the defence area are: to detect, investigate and prevent the safety of certain persons, jobs, facilities and environments used by the Ministry and the Slovenian Armed Forces in or outside the country, and to provide information on the development or production of certain military weapons or equipment.” Now I ask you whether an investigation into the spread of rumours in connection with the health status of Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces falls within these provisions? Don't judge. This was also found by the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, which, in view of this at its 3rd emergency meeting on 26 April this year, decided that Knovs would point out that, in the case of Brigadier Škerbinc and the health situation of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, KOVS did not have a legal basis for carrying out informative discussions 3. 4. 2019 at the Force Command. Minister Erjavec has denied himself several times today. In the context of these observations, he said that the OPCW in this case carried out a preventive activity on the basis of the power it has in the Defence Act and which discusses its activities to prevent the service of crime. What preventative activity, therefore, should be carried out after some rumors have been verified? What should I investigate — a crime that has already been committed? It's illogical. I think this statement is contrary to itself. He then says that at the closed part of the meeting he will tell what comes out of the ODS Mors minutes, which should indicate that Brigadier Miha Škerbinc on 1 April spoke ill of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. I must say that, for the reasons mentioned in the introductions, I believe Brigadier Micha Škerbinec more than Minister Karl Erjavac, and I believe what he said before the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. And this magnetogram is public, and anyone can read his statements. There he explicitly said that he did not speak ill of the chief, but that he was protecting her integrity. These interviews, which were related to these rumors, took place on 3 April on the basis of the Minister's instructions, on the basis of some of the texts that muddled Brigadier Miha Škerbinc. Interestingly, although the report was produced on only a few pages on 12 April, it is said after ten days; the Chief of Staff, Alenka Ermenc, received it only after one month, on 7 May this year. However, this report has no weight in my opinion, not only because of contradictory statements, but because it has become illegal; and it will be dealt with as a non-paper document in a formal procedure, if launched. In this case, the ODS was abused by Minister Erjavac. It worked as it used to, but we thought that what we followed in Owl 15 years ago could no longer happen again. It was activated at the initiative of Minister Erjavac for the verification of rumours. There is no basis for such conduct in the law, but also in this case the harmful consequences arising from this minutes will be irreparable; as in some other cases in that country. Remember the Commission's report on anti-corruption, which led to the fall of the 10th Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Unreparable, harmful consequences, but apparently some result from the fact that no one will ever take responsibility for their improper or illegal conduct. However, the Director of the Security Intelligence Service and Minister Erjavec are responsible for these actions, both of them should leave their posts. Under this item, the signatories are informed that they are responsible for the violation of Article 32 of the Defence Act and for the violation of legal powers for the abuse of the Security Intelligence Service. He couldn't argue with those reports. The law, document and statements of those involved demean him. The third item is the discharge of the Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces Command without having to do with any official reasons, as provided by law. Minister Erjavec says today that the Commander of the Command can be named and resolved without giving reasons; and he also says that this point is clearly intended only for the politicisation of the Slovenian Army. However, this point raises a legitimate question to the Minister, why, in recent months, he spoke first of all about the reasons for the discharge of the Force Commander, that the reason for the resolution of non-compliance with orders, the night shooting of Poček, the operation of the ministers' direction. Then the documents began to come and these statements of the Minister were denied. He then said that the reason for solving the ugly talk about the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, her medical condition, which Brigadier Škerbinc said on the morning line in Vrhnika on April 1st. Then, for a time, because this claim was also shaken, both reasons should apply. Finally, the minister says under the line: I am not obliged to state the reasons for discharge and appointment. But the law says that the official reasons must be stated; and we have not heard these things to this day. But no matter what, even Colonel Miha Škerbinc as a professional soldier, the upright professional officer said if the Minister or the Chief of Staff had called me and said – Look, Miha, we can no longer cooperate, trust is broken; I would have left my post immediately. However, I do not allow myself to be exposed to something I have not done and thus to be soiled by my professional path, past and future, and so publicly discredited. And that's what Minister Erjavec did. He publicly attacked an officer of the Slovenian Army without any reason. He does it all the time, and he does it in this session. Therefore, under this item, the interpolation signatories are held responsible for the violation of Article 45 in conjunction with Article 98a of the Defence Act and Articles 38, 39 and 40 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army; and these findings have not been contested. And the final point, the lost trust, the non-creditability and weakening of the power of the Slovenian Army. Minister Erjavec says today that this problem has been in the Slovenian Army since 2004. So this problem, the well-respected minister, has been lingering since your first ministry, because in 2004 and 2005, you became Minister of Defence. However, in this mandate, the Minister of Defence has done nothing concrete to stop the trend of leaving the Slovenian Army. Instead, a so-called White Paper is being prepared, where the goal of perfecting the permanent composition will be reduced from 8 thousand members to 6 or 6 thousand 500. Such a number will certainly not suffice with the need to carry out the military defence of the country, as provided for by the law in its 37th Article. So far, the Minister has done nothing to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army, but he has made great moves to reduce the credibility and reputation of the Republic of Slovenia as well as the Slovenian Armed Forces. Dearly beloved, the facts speak, not only do they speak, they scream. The Minister is responsible for all points of interpretation, to the fullest extent. On the basis of this, the Minister is no longer fit to serve as Minister of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. And if I have already begun with some opportunities, let me finish with one more opportunity from our neighborhood, which is so beautifully written on the skin of Minister Erjavac that I cannot let go; but I believe that there will never be another. Years ago, and not so far back again, our neighbors had a minister who said in a satirical show about: You live una volta salt ma a governess tutta la vita – Lives only once and reigns for the rest of your life. There was no government in which this minister would not be present. And even with Minister Erjavac, it's similar. This time, however, it would be right for him to take responsibility and leave, even before the vote, in the interest of the Slovenian Army and the state. In our opinion, therefore, Minister Erjavec has failed to contradict the observations addressed to him by the signatories to the interpolation and is therefore subjectively and objectively responsible. He no longer enjoys the confidence necessary to serve as Minister, so he must be given the confidence and the minister to be relieved. We will, of course, support this decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jerco Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u16	A nice welcome to you all, Vice President, Honourable Minister and all representatives of the government! Let's start with some facts. It is definitely true that the List of Marjan Šarca in Slovenian National Policy is a good year. And it is also true that today's inter-interpreted minister in this same policy is experiencing his or her age. And since we are all so eager to be exposed to inexperience, today we have no intention of overlying ourselves into politicizing the submitted interpretation. For we are convinced that 18 years and more in politics is long enough for the Minister to be able to defend himself and that he will demente in an appropriate way all the particulars recorded in the interpretation. Despite the fact that we are present in the temple of democracy for one year, we have actively monitored political developments as external observers. Even the historical view of all the interpretations performed in our independent country — by the way, to this day there have been 41 — shows that the instrument of interpretation has all too often been misused for completely different purposes. You know what your intentions were. These purposes in the vast majority of cases did not have a real basis. The same is true of other instruments of democratically highly developed companies, which the opposition has consistently used in its long-standing opposition role for completely different purposes. In one year, we have already experienced a proposal for a constitutional indictment that has failed the piano. And now we have the first interpolation. I believe I can say it probably won't be the last. While in the developed democracies, the opposition takes such levers extremely seriously and writes them with a shaking hand, it is quite common for you in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In this way, we are in a situation where the object of the tools the opposition has is no longer the transparency of democratic processes, but only the desire to create permanent emergency situations. We could even say that most of these moves were in the role of seeking the media attention of individuals of the opposition species or were tools with which they wanted to strike after the government and cause cracks in relations within the coalition. When I searched through the interpolation, I saw that there were nine interpolations in the previous mandate and only three for comparison in the 2004-2008 mandate. This also suggests a completely irrational assessment of today’s applicants as to when, why, and how interpolation is used. Well, let's not make this sound obvious, because in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca we are aware that each interpretation is a very serious pressure on the government and that the purpose of the interpretation is to start a debate on the political responsibility of the government as a whole and not just one individual minister. We are also aware of your desire to test the strength of this government coalition and, of course, your constant desire to destroy everything that has not grown on your potion. Not to mention the increasingly obvious action towards the continuous search for media headlamps, even when the greater interest of the State is needed to do so. As part of our intention to seek the individual responsibility of Minister of Defence, Karl Viktor Erjavac, we assess the reasons set out in the interpretation as extremely transparent and completely unfounded. The opinion that I have on a particular matter, on a certain matter, may also be about working, if you just want to be in favour of an individual member of the government, but there can be no reason to resolve it. When and if we delete the names and surnames from the interpolation, especially from the response to interpolation, we may be more easily and less burdened to assess the validity of the readings and the relevance and strength of the responses to them. It's always hard to rule out personal feelings, I'm aware of that; but sometimes it's the only way that we can look at the matter from another perspective as far as possible. We know that you can do more, and we know that you have the ability and the ability to write a reasoned interpretation that would also shake our finger in the vote when we weigh what we need to do. Why can this story not come true to you in any way and is this story almost impossible for you under the current Prime Minister of the Government? Marjan Sarec — a man who has suffered the greatest underestimation and even humiliation on your part — has proved that unlike some others, he is not a servant of any kind of opportunistic impulse to maintain authority. He didn't choose the people around him by the criteria of who's ours and who's yours. He claimed personal or objective responsibility from anyone who for such or other reasons proved to be unfit for a particular function. Of course, it should be stressed that we are living in a parliamentary democracy where multilateral coalitions are always formed. You probably know this fact well, but you just let it go every time you repeat as a parrot the used phrase of a recycled government. I also know that it is completely incomprehensible that there are people who are not only interested in loyalty; but every time appointment depends solely on the current Prime Minister of the Government, they put ability first. I am aware that you do not understand how someone can put a country and citizens ahead of partial interests. It is certainly commendable that the act of a person who, on objective grounds, assesses the situation in question and finds that his leaving the situation will make it possible for the State to function better; and finally, he actually leaves. And look at the fraction, because these moves were taken without your interpretations and you didn't find the right reasons, you just started inventing them, building them up and creating artificial reasons. Of course, it makes sense that you have chosen a state-of-the-art ministry as a target because you are already negotiatingly so very state-favouring. It is also no wonder that you have chosen a long-standing policy because you have yourself too long in politics. The latter is precisely one of the reasons for the ongoing planned attack of Mr Erjavac for several weeks. The SDS mission, which was scolded and supported by Knovs and her Mag president. Tonin is still and works under the motto that the target justifies the means. You know, our ancestors have apparently given us the form of a hen through the history of fighting for our territory. None of the fighters for our homeland could possibly have imagined that the symbolic shape of the battled country would ever conquer so many roosters and so many roosters. In our government of democracy, they obviously do not yet understand what the functions of the state are, what national interest means, and at least we are aware of the role of individual parts of the government. And then there are politicians who rush in front of the cameras and are ready to look at their picture in the daily newspaper to jeopardize national interest, even in the arbitration process and even manipulate classified data. My very good friend Šime, who sells fish to me in Istria, smiles and says, "Hey, Slovenians, Slovenians. And unfortunately, even at night, I can nod on it. As long as we are at a stage where critical judgment does not exist, at which every common sense fails and in pursuing the accounting of individual politicians does everything at home, there will be no difference in politics. Those of you here who are one term, two, three or even more, have apparently cultivated quite a number of mutual resentments and suppressed frustrations. Honestly – I don't care, but even less is the public’s interest. When we are so eager to talk about reconciliations about our history, we could say something about the need for old politics to come to its senses. Under the old policy, an emsha is not necessarily understood; I have in mind a way of acting and thinking that is not dependent on age, but on understanding what it means to be a politician and what our mission is. The misunderstanding of this latter and many others is the real purpose and basis of your interpretation. As I said in the introduction, I believe that the specific findings will be explained and rejected by the minister himself. Our main purpose is to fight, defend a stable and normal country. In many cases, however, it goes beyond the Minister and represents unacceptable manipulation and harm to the state system. You know, politics comes and goes. The Minister does the same thing. And the country stays, and that's what matters. If the Slovenian Army is not in perfect condition, it has been clear for several years. This is clearly for the leaders, for the soldiers and for the public. A number of governments have cut the funds of the entire defence and security system. The government of Marjana Sharca is the first government after several years, which has significantly raised these funds. It has also shown that it is aware of the importance of security and defence and that it is clear to us that all other systems in the country can function only and only on condition that peace and security are guaranteed. The system, which has been nourished for years and has experienced a truly strong incision in finance over a period of time, cannot breathe and live on the first financial injection. The military is an important pillar of every sovereign state and deserves a special city, respect and authority. Even if someone wanted to find the culprit for the main problems in the military, there's more to looking for than money and Minister Erjavac. Problems have many points of origin and a long beard that we can put the beginning of in the self-conquering processes themselves. By that time, the nation’s credits had been acquired by individuals and, under the pretext of the nation’s merit, began to create their own daydreams. Like many in our country, the defence system has not been cleansed of harmful individuals who have never understood what it means to act for the country. They have never accepted the fact that no individual is above the system. Even more so, under the weight of the acts, they are more than the progress of the military and the development of national security driven by the desire for self-certification and self-centred self-centerism. Yeah, let's face it, people like that are part of the problem. Your first observation refers to the alleged abuse of the ODS in the event of the execution of security orders to gather information that the then Commander of the Force Command spoke before the troops were deployed about the medical condition of the Chief of Staff. Let me just rhetorically ask all of us a few questions together. Where did we go that public debate on certain matters, which in themselves are absurd enough and, I hope to say, even completely unacceptable?Oh, my God! Where did we go to even ask ourselves, in what way and in what context is anyone responsible in public, before a crowd of people talking about the individual’s health and personal data, which, by the way, are the fruits of the yellow media and rumors?Oh, my God! Even if we rule out this happening within the military system, it's even sadder where the borders are permissible. Where will we draw the line and say - here is the limit of personal dignity and from here forward we are in the field of moral and ethical perversion?Oh, my God! It is of particular importance in the military system that data and information are collected and produced in order to protect national interests at home and abroad, and that they produce a variety of assessments that serve as support for the planning and implementation of defence measures. For such an operation, the Ministry shall have an ODS unit. The Service shall collect information and data in the context of intelligence, counter-intelligence and security tasks. The proposaler's desire to show the excess of ODS's legal powers is completely unrealistic. For the sake of the normal functioning of the military, it is essential that the service carry out security tasks, which are also linked to the fact that it is always aware of what is happening within the system, including in the barracks, in order to inform and report on this to the Chief Minister, the Minister, the President of the Government and also the President of the State. Inadequate speech across the superiors in the line of command is certainly a matter of dealing with the internal service, as such conduct can pose a serious threat to military regulation and potentially endanger the post of chief. Your second observation relates to the discharge of the Commander of the Force Command. The Defence Act in Article 45 provides that the Minister shall appoint the commanders at the request of the Chief of Staff and that the discharge authority shall be equal to the appointment authority. Article 98a states that a member of the permanent composition may be assigned to another formational duty or place for an indefinite period of time due to service needs and that, in the event of the act of a Brigadier or a higher act, the Minister shall decide on a proposal from the Chief. The law is therefore clear and clear, and it is clear to every citizen that the military is a hierarchical organization, within which is the highest in the line of command of the Chief of Staff, who also has in law, specifically in the Article Appointment of Commanders, the basis for making proposals for appointment and resolution. Your third observation refers to the search for responsibility in relation to night shooting at Poček. We all know it's bad under the roof if there's a lack of communication. We know it's not good if a man is loud in the inn and his wife is talking to her friends about the problems they're having. The problems can only be constructively solved at home if they sit at the table, close the door, and start talking, from problems to solutions. And in the situation of Poček, on the one hand, there was a lack of multi-annual communication between all actors, and on the other, a thought in silence before a sentence or two is pronounced in the cameraman's lens. And if we get the opposition involved in this story, which does not miss the opportunity to power the situation, we have an ideal scenario for confusion. Perhaps even the only criticism I can take against the minister is that he missed the opportunity to assess the situation from a pragmatic point of view and remain silent. Your fourth observation is a general definition of your personal vision of Minister Erjavac, with whom you have collaborated in the past, but today you are standing on opposite shores. Your reading at the last interpolation point is read somehow in the sense that Minister Erjavec is responsible for everything. The cross of responsibility for what you state is a lost confidence in the role of minister and the overall whole institution bears only and only him. You know, it would be a time for everyone in this country to first sweep the threshold and start playing their part in this community; and in a responsible and mature way. You, too, dear opposition. Each of us has his own task and role in this society. Military harassment in the public, policy enforcement in all times of the military system, arms affairs, union politicisation, the use of even committees of the National Assembly outside their jurisdiction, or, if you want, beyond the limits of good taste, that is, the abuse of commissions. Also, after the meetings taking place in the basement of the State Assembly without cameras, it immediately runs to the media and interprets just like that, all at once, including this and more is a part of the responsibility to reduce confidence in the defence system. Once again, everyone has their share of responsibility. It is only fair that each of us sets up a mirror and first cleans up his mess before the arrows are pointed across the board. In summary, in your previous term you have submitted nine interpretations. It's your way of doing things, and it's your way of doing things. Every government comes and goes, the country stays and we all share. The responsibility and purpose of the policy is to work for people and deal as little as possible with itself. You have only a desire for power ahead of you, and we know that this is just a tool to achieve the goal. And this is to take our country to the future. It is only and only because of this objective that it is worth dealing with your daily, such and other, self-destructive maneuvers. At times, all together could understand for a moment that it is a time for silence and that it is a time for speech. Dear Minister Erjavec, distinguished President of Knovsa Mag. Tonin, Vice President Jean Mahnic, and also Brigadier Škerbinc, will hold that when the language is silent, the head is less ache. Minister Erjavec, allow me, in the end, to congratulate you on your personal holiday on behalf of the entire Group of Letters of Marjan Šarca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In many ways, the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia is modelled on foreign democracies with a significantly longer tradition than ours. This is reflected, inter alia, in the constitutionally defined relationship between Parliament and the government, including the institutions of parliamentary control over the work of the government. Indirectly, this supervision is carried out daily through the working bodies of the National Assembly and the work of Parliament as a whole, and most directly through the institutions of questions sent and interpretations. The constitutional theory of the interpretation of an individual minister or minister is considered to be one of the special forms of the question of the Member State, the difference being that the interpretation is made through a different, more difficult procedure and constitutes a significantly more serious pressure on the government or one of its members. However, the theory also acknowledges that interpellation is more than a debate on some general principled issue of the opposition's weapons of attack on political stability. This is a serious political pressure on the individual minister or the whole government, because even though it is unvoted in the end, each time interpolation is a lacquer paper of the strength of the coalition and a representation of the actual relationship of political forces in Parliament. Repeated reports, even if not based, raise a lot of public attention, especially in the case of individual ministers, such as defence and international partners. Taking into account this aspect of the individual responsibility of the Minister, it is clear what is the purpose of the interpretation of the work and responsibility of Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac. The attack on the president of one of the coalition partners, who is a member of the minority government and who runs a department in which problems have accumulated and relations between employees have been broken for many years, is a school case of abuse of the parliamentary control instrument over the government's work for strictly partial political interests. Social Democrats are a party with a long enough tradition and a parliamentary memory that the finding of interpretation as a means of political struggle for us is not new. We have already participated in the debate on a number of interpellations between ministers and governments. In 2014-2018 alone, in which the Slovenian Democratic Party exceeded itself as a recorder in the Republic of Slovenia by the number of interpretations submitted, we addressed eight interpellations of ministers and ministers, one government interpretation and a dramatist summit with the constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister. The Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak, has tried to hold the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs responsible for the professional decisions in specific matters that were not affected by, or should not have been, the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for a period of up to two months. Despite the international comparability of the constitutional instruments of parliamentary control over government work, a rapid statistical review of the history of their use in Slovenia alone shows deviations from international practice. In the vast majority of countries, interpellation is reserved to identify the responsibilities of ministers and ministers with regard to very severe perceptions supported by concrete and solid facts. All other issues are resolved in mature democracies through other permanent mechanisms to exercise control over the government's work. Our parliamentary practice by hyperinflation of the interpellations tabled and even by constitutional accusations points to the political maturity shown in the first place by the unwarranted applicants on the inaccuracies and lies of the underlying proposals for interpretation. The text of the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Defence, Karl Viktor Erjavac, is full of such deceptions, deliberate misinterpretations of the provisions on the powers and powers of the Minister of Defence and on his direct or indirect responsibility for produced affairs, such as the discharge of the Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the night shooting at the Poček Central Military Training Centre. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that Minister Erjavec, in his reply, gives concrete and good arguments to the proposals. He also convinced the President of the Government, who had already identified the Minister's May reports as appropriate and expressed his belief that the Minister would know the decisions and actions properly in the interpretation process. The fact that the President of the Government trusts Minister Erjavac is an additional and very good reason for us to vote against non-trust. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are so confident that the intervention of Minister Erjavac will be accompanied by a series of unsuccessful attempts to overthrow ministers and ministers. At the same time, we regret that, and all of this shows that, already, interpellation has damaged relations in the Slovenian Army and in the wider defence system, as well as the principles of the credibility of Slovenia in relation to foreign partners and in the international space. Instead of the necessary modernisation, investment and human resources revitalisation provided by government support, including through increased budgetary resources to the Ministry of Defence, and the renovation of the comprehensive legal and strategic documents, Minister Erjavec and the Ministry are trapped in a vicious circle of slanders, personal discredits and political struggles; and where such fighting should not be in the interests of the State. But it's all for nothing. Interpellators are not hindered by the fact that this is a national resource where the washing of allegedly dirty laundry in front of the domestic and foreign public undermines the safety and vital interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, interpelling proponents and supporters are prepared to prove their allegations, to overthrow Minister Erjavac and to take a step against the collapse of relations in the coalition and the early end of the current government's mandate are willing to use all funds. In this case, we are witnessing the abuse of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which has turned into an investigative commission concerning Minister Erjavac in his capacity as Minister of Defence, as well as his past work as Minister of Foreign Affairs. The instrumentation of the permanent working body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which carries out a special form of parliamentary control over the services responsible for the most sensitive ways of obtaining and using data, is an act that is neither national or patriotic. The actions of the initiators of today's day-to-day debate could therefore not be more contrary to the words they are otherwise described. In the Group of Social Democrats, however, we hope that political wisdom will prevail and that the debate will take place in the interests of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the functioning of all defence and security authorities and in the interests of the Republic of Slovenia with an appropriate political culture, which is the subject of a democratic exchange of views and this esteemed assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear government representatives, Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! At today's extraordinary session, we are considering an intervention against the Minister of Defence, Karl Erjavac, who is in violation of Article 32 of the Law on Defence and the violation of the legal powers for the abuse of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence, Article 45 in connection with Article 98a of the Defence Act and Articles 38 to 40 of the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army. Furthermore, the responsibility for overstepping powers, deception and lying in the event of shooting at the Poček exercise and the responsibility to perform a function that would result in lost confidence in the role of minister and institution in the field of defence of the Republic of Slovenia. In his response to the interpolation, the minister rejects the obvious. With regard to the apparent misuse of the Intelligence Security Service, it explains that this service acted in accordance with the law when the dissemination of incorrect information on the medical status of the Chieftain was perceived as a security indicative phenomenon which had a negative impact on trust, morality, credibility and reputation of the commanding officer; and could have a significant negative impact on the command system in the Slovenian Army and would interfere with its functioning. According to the Minister, the Intelligence Security Service did not carry out intelligence activities but security tasks under Article 34 of the Defence Act and the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. With regard to the statement under point 2, the Minister explains that the Minister may appoint and dispose of the most important staff in the hierarchy of the Slovenian Armed Forces on a proposal from the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and subject to Article 45 of the Defence Act, for which he does not have to state specific reasons for his decision. The discharge order was also issued on this basis in accordance with the rules in force and taking into account the right to legal protection. With regard to the observation under the third point of the interpretation, the Minister extensively explains that Brigadier Škerbinc knew or should have known about the limitations of the Sokol exercise (Eagle), from the Minister's oral instructions and from other rules and acts such as the Rules on Exercises in the Defence System, the Plan for the Defence System and the System of Protection against Natural and Other Accidents in 2019, the Guidelines for Planning Training at the Poček archery and gymnasium, the Eagle laboratory and the accompanying organisational order. However, the Minister also concludes with the view of Brigadier Šerbinec that he has given guidance on the limitation of shooting only after the exercise has been completed, and could also understand that an agreement with the local community on the central exercise is one of the very important interests of the Slovenian Armed Forces and would have given direction on night shooting on the basis of these circumstances alone. In the SMC Group, we have carefully read all the notes to the Minister and will continue, in part in the position, and in part in the debate, to them as well; however, we cannot judge the whole matter beyond the retrospective situation in the Slovenian Army over the last few years. The times of the crisis and the years of recovery have seriously affected the Slovenian Army and our national security system. It was only with the previous government of Mira Cerar that the situation began to improve gradually. The trend of declining funds has stopped, and they have begun to increase nominally, and we have re-established a credible relationship with NATO. With the adoption of the medium-term defence programme, we will gradually begin to fulfil our commitments. We have adopted the Critical Infrastructure Act and have renewed crisis management and management. By carrying out a comprehensive defence review, we have been able to determine to what extent the organisation and functioning of the defence system and defence capabilities provide adequate response and the capacity of the state to deal with current and future security threats and risks. Organizational changes have begun. We were aware that we could not talk about the country of prosperity, development and the future unless we ensured an appropriate level of operation for all subsystems, including the Slovenian Armed Forces and other national security authorities. According to the Modern Centre Party, security is crucial to achieving the well-being of citizens and citizens. It is therefore important that key organisational changes continue in this mandate. We expect the Defence Minister to begin to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army by effective measures and activities, as a result of which an assessment of its level of readiness has been made, since the Slovenian Armed Forces have been assessed with sufficient assessment for their operations in the war and the assessment is insufficient. As we know, for many years we have been dealing mainly with the problem of human resources malnutrition in the Slovenian Army. Currently there are 6 000 544 members of the Slovenian Army. We expect that this issue will be resolved by regulating the status or position of soldiers in order to keep people in the system and to ensure a smooth exit from it, and therefore legislative changes and updates are needed in the area of defence. In doing so, we expect the Minister of Defence to prepare comprehensive systemic solutions and additions under the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. A revision of the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the promised White Paper is also needed. The Defence Act should then be drawn up in a way that requires a simple and not a two-thirds majority for those provisions which are of a labour nature, that is to say, to be transferred to another law, with the Ministry determining partly the legal nature to adapt to the needs of the military and the Slovenian soldier. By adopting these laws and documents, we will provide a basis for enhancing the effectiveness of our country's security system and addressing identified shortcomings in this area. It is not too much to mention that we are also expecting the establishment of a helicopter emergency medical care. We therefore expect the Minister to ensure the professional, responsible and legitimate functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces with these activities. The perceptions of interpolation in the Group of the Modern Centre Party are assessed by some as completely unfounded and some as non-excessive. Our position on the obvious, even those mentioned in the fourth point, is partly reflected in the above-mentioned expectations in the area of the Defence Department. The most important observation, which in some other circumstances may also require the political responsibility of the minister, is that the Minister should abuse the Morse Intelligence Service, which he is supposed to engage in in contravention of the provisions of the Defence Act. In the Modern Centre Party, we estimate that the obvious case does not provide a basis for supporting interpretation. An example of the alleged dissemination of inaccurate information from the private life of Chief General Staff, with the dissemination of such information being carried out in the framework of military service, is a serious case which could degrade the command system in the military. It should also be pointed out that the Intelligence Security Service has carried out activities within the military and has not intervened in the civil sphere. Article 32 of the Defence Act gives the Security Intelligence Service, within the framework of security tasks in the field of defence, powers which can be interpreted and interpreted in Morse; our appeal to the Minister is to ensure that powers are interpreted more narrowly and in accordance with the objective of the ODS, even if it is possible to solve individual cases in another way. As far as the legality of the discharge of Brigadier Škerbinc and the shooting of Poček are concerned, our assessment suggests that they are much more likely to be given politically colored values, such as who was telling the truth and who was lying. And today, none of us can discuss them beyond the scope of their political position, so they cannot be the basis for supporting interpretation. What marks the interpolation in general, and this leads us to a great extent in the assessment of all perceptions together, is the fact that the opposition has largely subordinated its majority, the Presidential and Vice-Presidential function in the Knovs Parliamentary Commission, to a large extent to interpretation, which we do not think is right. The Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services shall, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, be the one which supervises the activities of the intelligence and security services; not the one which is intended to support certain adages from the interpretation itself. In particular, it seems disturbing for the Modern Centre Party that the President and the Vice-President of the Commission regularly and generally refer to the press conferences immediately after the meetings of the Commission, make statements and evaluate their values on matters that have taken place at individual meetings. The Commission is not intended to question persons for the purpose of attesting the atheisms recorded in the interpretation. As previously stated, the Commission is a special body which has its purposes written in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If intelligence activities are generally regarded as using special methods and means for data collection, using different safe rooms and the like, then foreign intelligence in Slovenia is required to collect data by sitting on the couch in the hotel and on the third channel of RTV Slovenia, see the statements of the President and Vice-President Knovs, who subscribe to the cameras to report on the events at closed sessions. This interpellation has already repeatedly been reversed in front of the cameras after individual closed sessions of Knovs. Although this is a matter for which it would be better not to pursue national interest. Because of the latter, we estimate that this interpolation and the whole story over the last two months do not benefit either the Slovenian Army or the Slovenian national security system, so we will not support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Karl Erjavec is a man for all systems and all governments. Janša, Cerar, Sarec, whatever, there's Erjavec everywhere. Mr. Erjavec is a bad minister of defense. His greatest success in this mandate is due in Levica, when we have prevented more than 350 million Euros from buying completely unnecessary armors 8 x 8. Not because Minister Erjavec would realize that money is better directed towards pensions, health care and development, but because we were socialists enough. After all, this is the same minister who, along with John Jansa, bought patriots. And Minister Erjavec would like to buy new toys with cannons imposed on us by NATO. In this respect, nothing differs from the Slovenian Democratic Party, although it is reported in its interpretation that it does not meet the requirements of spending public money on more weapons. Today we are or are already going to be witnessing a match between Nate's servants and Nate's lacquers on who is more pro-nantic and who is fighting the great warlords in Washington, D.C., who are at the moment fighting a new war with Iran, can bow down deeper. In the left hand side, we oppose this policy of political establishment. Like its predecessors, this government is turning the Slovenian Army into a consumer of completely unnecessary weapons. On the one hand, he is building an expedition corps for the subcontractor of the World Police Officer Number One, who needs partners to regulate the situation in countries previously destabilized by U.S. bombs; on the other hand, such an army of defenses of the country is not capable. A policy that does not follow the principles of peace and non-violence is one of the reasons why we are working with the Government projectically in Levica. All points of disagreement are clearly set out in the cooperation agreement for this year. In spite of these differences, why have we decided to cooperate with the government of Marjan Šarc? Because we wanted to solve the problems I have been promising despite Slovenian policy for the past 25 years, she was not ready to solve. In the 2018 agreement, we managed to ensure the end of savings on social transfers, three consecutive years of minimum wage increases and the exclusion of all allowances next year. And when this law is fully in force, employees will finally be able to survive the minimum wage from their work. Prime Minister Marjan Šarec and Minister of Economy Zdravko Restovalšek began talking a few weeks ago after meeting with representatives of business owners and the best paid people in this country about the delay in raising the minimum wage; how could all workers, except the worst paid, have not been paid for the following year. Therefore, I repeat today, we will defend the minimum wage in Levica with the unions to the end, including the referendum. But the government's statements on minimum wage are, in fact, only a symptom. The Left implements its part of the agreement and the minority coalition Marjana Sharca simply does not. Although we agreed on measures that were necessary, which were in the programming papers of all central governments for 25 years, they also remained on paper. The current situation shows that they are also treated as dead letters of agreement on paper by the government of Marjan Sarca. If I am purely specific, we have proposed in Levica that once and for all we start removing the fine work and put the regular work back on the standard, starting with the restriction of the Agency's exploitative work. We have suggested that we finally begin to provide people with a decent and accessible roof over their heads. In order to maintain and improve the level of the social state, we have proposed a fair taxation of capital, which currently does not return its share to society; on the contrary, the state subsidises it too often. We wanted to prevent the quiet privatisation of health care, which is happening through the gradual outsourcing of activities and the subordination of the public health system. Well, despite the cohesiveness, the coalition rejected this law. We have proposed that supplementary health insurance be replaced by a fair public tax which would redirect the funds currently flowing into the profits of private insurance companies to the health treasury. These are the solutions to the really long-term problems that this country and the people who live here face. Fourteen days ago, we met with the President of the Government and the leader of the Marjan Sarca Group of Ambassadors and made it clear that cooperation is bad, that agreements and deadlines are not respected despite constant communication and that it is the worst with the ministries under the Marjan Sarca quota. We've been assured that things will change. The working groups of key reforms in the areas of health care, long-term care and taxes, in which Levica would also participate, are expected to be revived. It was agreed that four projects from the 13th of the cooperation agreement would be implemented before the summer. But what has happened since then in these last fourteen days? Two days ago, at the time of the adoption of the solution, which is uniformly recorded in the government coalition contract, the coalition's attitude towards the agreements was most apparent by the leader of one of the coalition groups, I quote: "Even if it is written 100 times in coalition, I will never support it. It can be written a hundred times, I will not support it.” That's how old politics works, which promises one thing and does the other. Politics on paper and in words left centred, but in actions neoliberal. This is how politics works, the only purpose of which is to be in power, so that it is in power. In these last 14 days, we in Levica have been communicating on one side, trying to coordinate and constructively solve problems. The government coalition, on the other hand, did the following: for the first time, coalition parliamentary groups did not contribute signatures under the law to limit the commission levels of real estate intermediaries and thereby reduce the rent costs for tenants; despite the harmonisation of the law with the Ministry, even though the solutions were drawn directly from the agreement. Secondly, instead of moving all suitable properties free of charge from the bad banks to the housing fund, which would allow 10,000 public rental apartments, the government chose to resolve the profits of the bad bank rather than solving the growing housing problems of young people. The Housing Fund, which has been without budget money since 2009, will acquire only three properties. Next, thirdly, two days ago, watch out – from the media, we learned about government tax reform, although the agreement stated that it should be prepared by a working group and the President of the Government at that meeting 14 days ago ensured that this would be the case. But the biggest problem is not really protocol, but the content of this tax reform. Instead of a fair tax reform, the government has taken a step back from the agreed capital tax, while at the same time rooting for tax returns for the best wages already paid 50 million euros a year in the previous mandate. And for the fourth time, he's selling the Banks. Despite all the conversations and calls of the Left, Marjan Šarec personally decided to sell the bank. It turned out as SDH Supervisory Council President Carmen Dietner described yesterday, citing: “If the government wanted a different solution, the government would decide on the sale as the SDH Assembly.” However, in spite of the other statements made by the government's visible representatives, with Prime Minister Sharc at the helm, this will never occurred, they left the sale to the SDH supervisory council, which gave the bank further to Apollo's speculative fund. With this, Slovenia has lost the last system bank in state growth and has accumulated a development deficit and a risk in the future. Yesterday at the latest event, the President of the Government said, quote again: “If there are not enough votes in Parliament, the government will fall, there are no other options.” I agree with this and add – Whether the votes are enough or not depends solely on the President of the Government of Marjan Šarc. If he and his party respect and implement the signed agreement, there will be votes. If they don't, they won't. And his government will be another among those who have spent 25 years talking about how they will provide affordable housing, decent jobs and pensions, how they will protect public health care and end up with supplementary insurance; in the end they have done nothing. Because the word Levice applies because we stick to the agreement and because today's debate is going to be the fight between NATO's elbows and the slaves on who's going to buy weapons faster than we don't need, I predict that we won't take part in the debate and the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. However, the proposaler Jean Mahnič asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Given what Kordish's colleague was saying, first of all, one question. In your opinion, what is more destabilizing to the government — whether it is the input of interpretation or the words of your coalition partners? What he has just said, all that he's said, I think it's significantly more destabilizing the government than the interpolation, which, because you have no conscience, no ethics, no morals, the minister will survive. In view of all the things I've heard, I thought it would be harder to defend arguments today. But on your part — with the exception of some of the indents that I have written here — I have not heard one argument to show the article of the law, which of what we have written, and which of what I have said does not hold true. Each thing, Mr Jurša, I have supported with a specific article, with a precise paragraph, with a specific indent; you are quite a point. Let's do it in a row. Šerbinc is closely linked to the Slovenian Democratic Party. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that Mr. Škerbinc can sue you for this? And yesterday he brought an action against you and against Matijevic, so that you can measure what you will say today, because it is likely that the record of this meeting will also be used in court. I don't know how they'll decide there, since you're changing your statements every day after hours. But justice will be served once. How do you know that Šerbinc is connected to the Slovenian Democratic Party? Where was Miha Škerbinc when John Janša was Secretary of Defense? Where was Miha Škerbinc when you were Minister of Defense? I think the Commander of the 10th Regiment is today. If Commander Šerbinc is associated with the Slovenian Democratic Party, why did Roman Jakič, when he was Minister, tolerate him as Commander of the 1st Brigade when it was clear that everything that is SDS should be cleaned? If Miha Škerbinc is associated with the Slovenian Democratic Party, why did you appoint him Commander of the Force Command to allow the politicisation of the Slovenian Army, Mr Minister? If Miha Škerbinc is connected to the Slovenian Democratic Party. Your claim is not true. Those who know Brigadier Šerbinc in any way say: He is not of anyone, he is an eternal opposition to all, he works in behalf of the Slovenian Army. Is it true, Mr. Erjavec, that you asked Brigadier Škerbinec that you would like to hire a military station for one of the events of Desus? Even if you settle all accounts, even if you pay everything, Škerbinc said, "No, the military has nothing to do with politics." If Škerbinc is associated with the Slovenian Democratic Party, why was the military not approved the kitchen for the event of the Slovenian Democratic Party in Bovec? If Brigadier Šerbinc is associated with the Slovenian Democratic Party, such a decision would be made to give the kitchen to the firefighters, of course, immediately signed. But he did not sign this because he was once again in the position that it would be cooked for the Slovenian Democratic Party and that the military had nothing to do with politics. I know, Mr. Jurša, it's hard to listen, but these are facts. It is not politically oriented, it is opposition to everyone, to every minister, because he does not want to be politicized with the Slovenian army. And that's why Colonel Škerbinc was in dispute with you, and that's why you had to find a way to put him out. But the problem is, you found an illegal way. You said, Mr. Minister, that the Commissioner could propose, even if there is no Počko, even if there are no ugly rumors and so on. If there is no official need, it cannot be resolved in this way. Commander Šerbinc made it clear at the hearing: I do not have a problem with the resolution, but I have a problem with the solution. I have a problem with it because the chief didn't tell me – Miha, I'm going to get rid of you because I don't trust you anymore. At the hearing he said: In such a case I would say I understand; and the matter would be concluded. But when he was released on April 5th when she called him on the phone, she said to him, "You know what, we're gonna get rid of you. He asked why; and she said, "You know, he says this." And then the military police bring him home that night, to you, on a home order, as they used to be the communist police, discredited him in such a way in front of the neighbours, in front of others, without explanation, without all, although the rules of service in the Slovenian Army are clear that there must be a written explanation. And now we're at the first point. I claim and have the Rules of Service in the Slovenian Army that for each discharge there must be a written explanation. You say you don't have to. Show me the article. But if you think this article is wrong and you change it, Mr. Minister, correct it. But as long as it says in the article that an explanation is needed, an explanation is necessary. And that's it. I've got articles, papers, documents, and you've got something to move on. Article, please, article, legal basis, nothing else. The Force Commander, you said he had nothing to say and it's unacceptable to allow himself to talk about his medical condition. I now read the magnetogram of the hearings of Brigadier Šerbinec: "I think of course among 200 people who listen to someone say something, someone can also understand that I said something I did not say. That's what turned out to be the first talk. That's when the text came out that I was talking about how this country had failed and how this army was not worth it. Sort of. But I was talking about how we have to look primarily at ourselves and that the Republic of Slovenia will have an army, even if someone will abolish it. But someone can hear what they want to hear. I have talked seriously to many people, I never write speeches, and it is possible for a person to say something in enthusiasm, but I have then spoken to many people. You know, most of them heard me say something I know I said. So once again, I haven't talked about her health condition, I've talked about how as a commander I don't want to talk about it after the military, after the whole weekend was full of media, when it started talking after the military, and it's nice to talk, you know, after the army, to stop it. And I've been talking about how embarrassing, and seeing how difficult it is in this country today to be Chief of Staff. That's what I told the army that the chief was sick too, not without breaking her heart; that the chief was sick when she fought for their wages, article 59, when the minister of college broke her so much that she went out crying and then to the hospital. That's what I said. And if you want it, and you can turn, Members and Members of Parliament, against me, as the ODS has already done, I will tell you. I said a sentence. I made an introduction to rumors. And then I said, "Now I'm gonna tell you what I know. I know the chief was sick, that she was a disease of a psychic nature, but the chief is now fully operational, she's back at work and work. And the only part is, I said the disease was of a psychic nature. Hang me, but I had no reason to doubt that was the case on April 1st. I will not go into the details, but I was then — and please believe me — deeply convinced that this is the case; and that the chieftain is living with it and that we are moving on together. What conspiracy has someone seen in this and what destruction and what I don't know; once again, what I was talking about is how we should stop talking about these matters. What was, was, the chief is healthy and disgraceful, is how badly in this country we deal with the first soldier in the military on the basis of his medical condition. I would only take advantage of this position because there was no question, but a motive, also related to the previous question, my very own. I think in this case it's political-military relations on the one hand, I think as a mature democracy some things will have to be cleared up. And this is what I said before — what kind of military, defence system and what kind of control over the military and defence system we will have. My name doesn't matter here. I've come so far in my career that I don't care anymore and I don't have to worry about it anymore. However, I think it is also from the perspective of the Slovenian Army's reputation to set some normal democratic boundaries of control over armed forces and respect for its own armed forces." Let's move on. He wasn't the first commander to be replaced. It was Milky Friday. Yes, of course he was, Mr. Secretary, but how was Milko Friday replaced? He went straight from one job to another. You mix pears and apples, it's not the same at all. From the post of Commander of the Force Command, he immediately went to another place. However, Šerbinc left the post of Commander of the Force Command for a transitional formation. What's the official need here? If you put it somewhere else, it would be an official need, but you solved it without an explanation, although there should be an explanation, unfortunately there is no official need. The Minister says he wants to prevent further politicisation of the Slovenian Army. What kind of politics, Mr. Secretary? I will not mention here, but believe me, at least the leadership of the Slovenian Armed Forces – I was the last president of the Defence Committee – I know very well. I also know their political orientations. And if anyone politicizes the army, you politicize the army, Mr. Secretary. What is currently in the Slovenian Army, what is the leadership of the Slovenian Army, the Force Command and others, I will not and do not want to talk about names; these are people, Mr Minister, who not only express sympathy once, I am sure that even once in the life of the Slovenian Democratic Party they have not elected. But they're loyal to you. They're loyal to your clients and other parties to the government coalition. And if anyone politicizes the Slovenian Army, it's Defence Minister Karl Erjavec. You spoke, Mr. Minister, but you did not say – and once again, I have not heard from anyone – how rumors can affect the safety of someone. If someone says someone's had a nervous breakdown, they can't influence the rumor, but it can be affected by the nervous breakdown he's experienced. I don't want to be ugly, but I don't think there's anyone here who wouldn't agree that we can't have a Chief of Staff for whom, if what they're writing is true. Because if we agree to that, then we have a serious problem. Mr Minister also said that Knovs had taken a decision and that this was unacceptable, that it was a classic intelligence activity. But do you know what is most interesting here; Jerco Korča voted for this decision. Jerco Korča voted in favour of this decision. I know it's probably because he doesn't know the difference between security activity, intelligence and anti-intelligence. But it's not my problem, it's her problem, she's confirmed that it was an intelligence activity, after homework for typical espionage. She confirmed it, she voted in favour of this decision. Mr. Minister, do you know what they said about Chief Alan Geder, about medical condition, about other matters, I will not go into detail because it's not right. And then the chief said at the testimony yesterday, in those eight minutes, she lied at least once when she said, "I'm not aware of any of the previous chiefs having medical problems." But she was replacing one of the chiefs because of health problems. But given the way the minister is lying, apparently Alice Ermenc has already gotten used to it and adopted it, all for her own existence. Probably already heard about the Slovenian Disneyland blog. Everything is written up there about the senior officers and generals of the Slovenian Army. Have you ever investigated these rumors? What does it say about Geder, what does it say about Pograjec, what does it say about Urbanch? That wasn't investigated. However, there were some rumors that arose after the press reported what was going on in the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. Double criteria, double criteria, but this isn't about conspiracy theory; it's about the Minister having to do something. I just remembered, Minister, if you'll also tell me whether, when you reported to President Pahor, you said at the meeting – the problem of the Slovenian Army is that there are trained officers in the United States. Smile tells you everything. Like I said, you're a master of lies and deception, I believe you'll refuse. It does not claim that the basic professional standard was not respected. No, it wasn't taken into account. The brigade didn't even tell him why they came, they didn't let him know after the end when they went through what was going on, they didn't let him know about the results. It is said that in our country, repressive authorities can control, collect data, investigate, come to your home, do whatever they want; but in the end, you don't know what it is, or even get acquainted with the results of the investigation. Then the minister says he doesn't think they only have police powers when they're investigating crimes. Think again, don't you, but thank God I have a marriage here that says otherwise. Article 34 clearly states that workers have powers, as provided for by law for the police, in the prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences in the Ministry and the Slovenian Army. This was not a crime or, at least, a crime pursued under official responsibility. You can say what you want, but you will not find the articles that would challenge this article and my claims under this article. You can talk – this interpellation is to stabilize the government, to create some extraordinary conditions; but you do not demente me when I clearly show the article what was wrong, how it should be. The answer is – this interpretation is a farce. No, Mr. Jursha, I don't know, it's in the law. I didn't make that up. And this marriage was adopted when I wasn't here when you were gone; very much back. Members have not been informed that they have the right to anonymity and that it is voluntary. Interestingly, when we exercised supervision, to my question to the director — Is it in accordance with Article 34 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers (Collecting Notices), paragraph two, the participation of persons in collecting notices voluntarily, or do they have the right to anonymity, or has this been taken into account?'The director said no. But then they fixed the director, the five informants who stopped at the Vrhnika, and, of course, agreed the stories that they said before – Yes, we've notified everyone. But it is evident from the testimony that the person who was with the members complained: They did not inform us of our rights, suggest answers, ask questions in terms of answers — yes, no. You can't change that. The ODS has not carried out any intelligence activity; we claim it did. It was classical espionage because there was no basis in the law so that the ODS could not use police powers under the official obligation to commit a criminal offence under the Penal Code. The ODS is not the police; the police can come, they collect notices, but the ODS is not the police. You first question and question the control of what is going on with Knovs to exceed your powers; you, while talking about how it is necessary for intelligence services to extend their powers in this direction in order to control their own citizens and citizens, claim that Knovs is responsible and responsible only for looking at the order, for no content and for nothing else. And if always, Mr. Secretary, you don't understand the needs of the office. Commander who does not know what happens to him during the exercise in the Slovenian Army. Think again, Mr. Secretary. I showed you the papers, and these papers prove that you're a minister who doesn't know what's going on in the Department of Defense. Your chief wrote: We fired as the government said and as the Minister of Defence said. Mr. Secretary, you can nod, but thank God everything's black on white. It's all black and white. After that shooting in the statements, the chief repeatedly said: We fired according to the arrangement, in accordance with the guidelines. And if the chief said that, that means that the chief is behind what Škerbinc or Colonel Zakrošek did in this exercise, commander of the 72nd Slovenian Army Brigade. In this case, only two should leave. Either you who violated the Government's decision because the exercise was conducted with the direction of the Government and the Ministry of Defence; or the Chief of Staff. And then the minister says - the record. The union requires it and the Ministry issues a decision. A record of a college where Škerbinc was present and that the Minister ordered it orally. The request of the applicant shall be rejected in the work relating to the transmission of the minutes of the Minister's College, where the Chief of Staff has given oral guidance on shootings at Poček Training. What is he hiding, Mr. Secretary? But what the Authority continues to say is that it does not have the required record. The Minister of Defence has colleges where there are no records of what happens in these colleges. What provisions, which articles of the law are violated in order not to write the minutes. The minutes of each meeting of the Group of Members shall be set out here. Every meeting, when someone comes to a meeting in the parliamentary group, is recorded, but it's about formalities, it's about discussions. However, the Minister of Defence at a college where he is supposed to issue key directions, how he shoots, does not write a record at all. There is no record of this because there was no college because there was no Šerbinec Brigadier on it and because Minister Erjavec did not issue such guidelines. However, if you, Mr Minister, order and direct what to do at home, coffee or snacks to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, this is another reason to leave because this is not the way to do it. Eternity, command, I've heard this a number of times today. But command must be based on orders. These orders must be followed. When Šerbinc gave oral direction on March 27th to stop shooting at night, do you know what he said? For reasons of traceability, I also gave this oral direction in writing, writing it down. It is said that we have a commander who has things black and white; and we have a minister who talks about something that doesn't even exist. You trust a minister who talks about something that doesn't exist at all, but you don't want to believe a commander who has everything black on white, which just proves that you're defending the minister in every way and that you don't want the truth. And he doesn't hold that Colonel Scherbintz would deny the chief the right to dismiss him. Just let him settle it according to the law, not some imaginary stories they don't keep. I could simply say – I no longer trust you, you will be assigned to this formational duty; and the story would be completed and you should not use and abuse military intelligence. And look how the minister demeans himself. Brigadier himself signed that there is an exercise of the Falcon, 60 millimetres for the Slovenian Army. Yeah, well, that's the main point, Mr. Secretary. The Slovenian army did not violate this agreement because the Slovenian Army used 60mm mortars. However, the limit of 60 millimetres did not apply to the U.S. Army. For the U.S. Army, it was signed in accordance with your agreement, in accordance with your instructions, with your authority; and in this case, you are the one who violated the government's decision. However, I believe that Mr Pavšić, who is from Postojna, will be able to confirm whether at three o'clock in the morning the mortar 60, 81 or 120 mm; everything is the same. It's disturbing for the environment, and at night that's what it sounds like. Or cut 81 or 120, there's no difference between someone who's sleeping. At night when there's peace, it rests and it shakes, it's all the same. And as I said, if you're saying she doesn't believe that the exercise was conducted by a government regulation, then it's your fault, Mr. Minister, because the chief clearly said she was working in accordance with your guidelines. But if she wasn't working in accordance with your guidelines, then you should be the one to resolve the chief. Well, you didn't. And the way you make fun of the American army, you said yourself, the attachés at the embassies are watching the meeting, I don't know what the Americans think when you say the Americans had an annex written to bring in 100 millimeters of mortars, not to be shot with. Which army brings to the drill a weapon with which they don't shoot. It wasn't an open-door day just to show off your weapons. In short, again the fiction of fiction, but you guys just back it up. Mr. Minister, with regard to boxer vehicles, you say the Slovenian Democratic Party wants to, the opposition wants to buy me boxers, because then you'd be criminalized. My question, Mr Minister, is, all you should do with the boxer is to complete the purchase process, based on documents prepared by the Government of Mir Cerar and then Minister of Defence Andrej Katič. And here you are saying that the former Minister of Defence, who today is the Minister of Justice, has prepared documents on the basis of which the person who would have taken the purchase on the basis of these documents would have been criminally incriminating. Mr. Minister, why don't you inform current Justice Minister Andreja Katič about your work as a bride? Because that's what you said happened. You accuse the Minister of your own government of doing a thing that is ripe for prosecution, and that's why you stopped it. I say boxers are too expensive, too. Then a man suggests to the minister – look, we already have thirty patriots, we need thirty more, and we have the first middle battalion fighting group, at least as far as 8 x 8 is concerned. Who's got patriotic, skilled, built to buy them? Poles, rosoms. And when you say to the minister, "Buy rosomake, the most compatible with our patriots, make purchases to the government, where there will be no corruption, the military supports it. But do you know what the Secretary of Defense says? No, but I'm not buying Patrieu again, what people are going to say. This is what the military proposes and what the minister does when politics rejects military advice and everything. But then he says Minister Hoys broke up. Yes, of course he did, because of the anti-corruption clause, Mr Erjavec, not because Patricia would not be okay. And because the brigadier you're magnifying, Brigadier Furlan changed his weaponry into his own fist, that they're practically naked and bare with 12.7 millimeters, instead of bombs, mortars and so on. You're the one, Mr. Secretary who's politicizing the army, and you're the one who's hurting the army. As regards the views of the parliamentary groups, Alenka Bratušek – “the reasons are not sustainable enough to support the interpretation”. I don't know what other reasons you need? If you have those on the one hand who say it is irrelevant, it is politicisation itself, it is a waste of time away; on the other hand, we, who say that this article has been violated by this article, have been violated because this article has not been taken into account. Let someone come, I'm waiting for someone here to explain the difference between the job and the person occupying this job. I really want to see this hero. Because you say that the job is personalized, that the job is a person. The workplace is not a person. But please, I can call some Slovenians. I don't know who's in charge, but let them explain. But what happens when we find out you're wrong? Yeah, that sucks. Interpelation sucks. On the one hand, arguments, on the other hand, emotional defense of the minister and the government. Look what Mr. Reich from Alenka Bratushek said. He assured the Minister that he had relieved the Force Commander in charge of the effectiveness of the military organisation. On the Defence Committee, however, the Minister explained, I think that in January or once, I appointed Miho Škerbinac to this place because he is a true soldier because he has proven himself in the past because he knows things and because he is the one who can lead this army into the path of old glory. But in three months, he'll be relieved of it because of the effectiveness of the military organization. And who changes their position to three months and turns them 180 degrees? Minister Karl Erjavec, Minister, who daily adapts to political events in terms of self-sustainment. The OPCW carried out security tasks. Knovs, including Coalition Member Jerco Korča, disagrees with this; she has carried out intelligence tasks and, above all, the security tasks of the OPCW do not give police powers if this is not a crime. All I have to do is get the Commissioner to file a criminal complaint or report the matter to the police as soon as she gets the information that this is being said; and the matter would be clear. Article 159, paragraph 161, of the Penal Code, slander, rumors. And there could be these ODS criminals on the basis of police powers. That's wrong. That wasn't it. You claim that ODS can be used purely for all to be able to walk left, right, up, down, interrogate everything on average. At the end of the action, it does not even inform. And Mr Reich of Alenka Bratušek added something very important that the Minister is responsible for the effective functioning of the Slovenian Army. Mr. Reich himself added another reason why this minister must leave. Because there is no effective functioning of the Slovenian Army. Because in one year, it'll soon be one year since he's been Minister, there's no progress. And there will be no progress. Soldiers are leaving, and you are adapting the laws and documents you accept to this state. “The orientations have indeed been given orally, but the Brigadier should know about them.” We're back at this famous college that wasn't where there's no record. But if Karl Erjavec on the coffee bar with the chief says – give it a try or don't shoot anymore after 11:00, Commander Škerbinc has to know for himself. And most importantly, and this is the last argument when all the arguments fall down, or the last excuse – we will support the minister for the coalition agreement. How many commitments under the coalition contract are valid for the Minister of Defence, Karl Erjavac, and we have seen the previous mandate when Desus supported the intervention of Minister of Labour Anja Kopač Mrak. And that when Jerca tells us what was going on in the previous term. Interpellation of Minister of Labour Anje Kopač Dark – 43 votes in favour, 37 votes against. Desus supported, Matjaž, and you also had written in the coalition contract that the interpretations were not supported. And the minister who violated the previous mandate now expects you to respect what you are suddenly doing. Let's go to Desus. “Who cares about the country and who hides behind the arrests that lead to intimidation in the social context.” [[…]] Whatever it might be, we're used to it by a colleague of Jurša, that there's often such a phrase here that brings together that really needs some further explanation. But this, when Desus spoke, “is the opposition really so offended that he wants to overthrow the Minister of Defence and the Minority Government”. [[…]] Once again, my question, who is destroying the minority government – or your coalition partner, who has just told you today that the matter is closed; or have we, based on all that we claim, submitted the interpretation based on all the articles of the law? If that's why we can't put in an interpolation, then I'd really like one of you to tell me what the violation of the minister must be, any one of you can file an interpolation. Does anyone have an answer to that question? Then why is it an interpolation institute? Yeah, they've been in history, I think, two made it, but interpellation is an instrument of opposition. We don't have a majority, you can do whatever you want, you have enough votes. “Blessing and defaming the opponent”, Mr Jurša. And that's what bothers me even though I appreciate you. You say we're slandering, we're demeaning. How can I slander and demean someone if I can clearly prove which laws he's broken, which articles. You say they're gone. Please prove it to me. When you prove to me that, despite the fact that it is clear in the law, the OPC may only use police powers in the event of crime prevention and so on, then I will give you the right. As long as you just say it isn't so; but don't tell me the article that denies this article, and I'm afraid I'll believe what I believe, and that's the law. And that this interpolation violates the protection of the safety of citizens; where did you get it? If anyone violates the security of citizens, he is the minister who abuses the ODS. Today he's using it against the military, next time he'll be against his own citizens. Why? Because he's gonna say, "Some people over there have been talking about the medical condition. I don't know who, go check it out." Although they are citizens and do not have authority over them, but they did not have authority here, they went. »Knovs’ controversial practice. There is a reasonable suspicion that the commission has been misused for accounting.” [[…]] Where do her powers go? That's what Jurša asks, and I answer again with the members of the law. It is said that some flat-rate evaluations on the one hand and articles of the law on the other, we are talking about the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Article 26, the obligation of staff in the supervised service: “Employees in the supervised service shall, within the limits of the powers they have in their place or position, be obliged to do what is necessary to enable the Commission to exercise its control and are obliged to cooperate with it.” It is said that the Commission can call anyone who is employed by a state authority. The Slovenian army is a state authority, it is a restriction on justice, it is a restriction on local self-government. We did exactly that. The Brigadier does not need permission, because if Chief General Staff forbidding the participation of the Brigadier, then Knovs should criminally incriminate her because the employees of the State authorities have to come to the Commission. And you told him where he got the right to just give some document to the committee. Let's go to the second paragraph of Article 26. Again, I answer the question again with a precise article of the law. “At the request of the Commission, each staff member in the supervised service shall be required to attend a meeting of the Commission and, within the limits of the powers he has in his/her place or position, explain and answer the questions of the members of the Commission. The Commission must ensure the confidentiality of the employee’s identity." That's not what happened in this case. And paragraph 3: "Employees in a supervised service may inform the Commission of the alleged illegality of a controlled measure." And then again, paragraph 32, this is an essential duty of cooperation with the Commission: “State authorities, other than courts, and administrative authorities, local community bodies, legal entities and public authorities are obliged to provide the Commission with data and documents upon its request” — data and documents — “related to the powers and tasks of the Commission.” Why did this refer to the powers of our commission? Because in the event of a shooting at Poček, the Security Intelligence Service was also used. And that's it. The document had to be given to us under this article of the law because the Intelligence Security Service was involved. But I believe it bothers you that he gave us this document. Why? Because he's lying to Minister Karl Erjavac. Miha Škerbinc discusses publicly, mud chief, including the Slovenian Army union. And I didn't notice anywhere that Miha Škerbinc would speak publicly about the chief, because you wouldn't let him speak. There was an exclusive interview with Karl Erjavac on Pop TV, and he was asked to tell Škerbinc about his salary, not to be allowed. When he left the commission, he made it clear: “I have no authority to make a statement.” This is a mode of operating in the Slovenian Army, someone to fly around, someone to the General of the Slovenian Army to tell them that he will shoot at the Postojna, the Taist Postojna, who came to her aid in 2014 at the time of thirst. And he himself told us at the testimony: “Although the order has not yet been given, I have already begun to prepare everything to leave the barracks four hours earlier, because I believed that this order would come.” And this order came, and four hours earlier because of Miha Škerbinec, the Slovenian army was in Postojna, as if otherwise. “Milko Friday left without a big pump.” Yes, of course he left without a large pump, because he was immediately appointed to another function from the post of Commander of the Force. I don't know what functions all the Secretary of Defense offered to the Brigadier in exchange for the matter to be concluded, but apparently the Brigadier didn't want to go behind. And it is right that he is at last one of the members of the Slovenian Army, not a soldier, not an ordinary soldier, because they do not hope; but you have wagged into the brigadier, who has spoken of his own. And that's the problem now, because he told you his story. Or it is not about seeking the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, but not about finding out what happened to the ODS, said Mr Jurša that the journalist Pop TV asked. This question has probably been ordered from Erjavčeva, we know by whom who practically edits everything since the performance of Marjan Šarc on Pop TV or 24 hours. But all this was done, all these questions were asked. And based on everything we've heard, based on the documents we have, it's the responsibility of Minister Karl Erjavac. Mr. Jurša, I have never told you in my life since I've been here, what you can say at press conferences. And I expect not to hear from you again what I can say at press conferences. What I say at the press conference is my business. None of the Members can tell me what to say; they can propose to me, but none of the Members can tell me – No, but you will not say this. Pulling arguments out of five veins and what I've been saying. Yeah, I did say that because there's no argument because the arguments are the same. The difference between me and the minister is that I bring the papers here, and there's no papers back. And I'm glad that then we can see that famous record, too, that you'll see what it really was. Because according to the minister there, it obviously says that this soldier and this soldier said that he was saying that, and this soldier said that he was saying that. It doesn't say that. I saw it myself. However, I would like to know what those soldiers who have said what they are; especially what matters most, what positions they are today or how they will be rewarded after the Minister has apparently survived the interpretation today. “Extremely sensitive data intervention.” It simply means that he was informed by the public and that he wanted to stop rumours that had arisen on the basis of what was said in public. The issue of the Commissioner's ability to carry out her job is the phenomenon which has begun to open up. But here I agree with you, yes, but that's what I said was important. If what it says about the Commissioner is true, I'm sorry, then such a lady can no longer be a chief, or sir or anyone else would be. “To collect information falls within the scope of the regular tasks of the ODS, not only for crimes.” [[…]] That's not true. The ODS isn't the police. Under this minister is the political police, but it is not the police, it should not be; if the law does not have to be amended and these powers removed if they are abused. And a cease-fire order that Shkerbinc gave on April 4th. Now, here's Secretary of State Groschel. “I would like to ask you a second question, but I mentioned how the situation was in my view the 27th, relatively successful. Let us say, placed under control, with the good cooperation of Mr Šefic, Mr Grošlj and me as Commander of the Force Command. And then it was me, yeah, I know why you're asking that, because among all the reasons I've been looking for, what I've been talking about, how the post-festum was looking for. Someone says that because Škerbinc gave the order only the day after the shooting, he restricted the shooting, he showed that he knew about the directions," the minister said, “that would not hold critical judgment, but he would have gladly read or told you. In short, this communication that day, responses came to the public, there were responses from the local community, there was no chief, and there was a minister in the United States. I am speaking by e-mail to Secretary of State Grošlje and Minister Šefić's advisor. This communication is because Mr Šefic is in charge of the Minister of Defence to solve problems with the Municipality of Postojna. And it was Secretary of State Grošelj who covered all the exercises in 2019. There's a deputy and chief of staff at the General Staff. They were not involved in this correspondence; of course, I reported to them on a regular basis on the line of command. At that time, there was a conversation between the three of us that, with the aim of calming things, I, as Force Commander, would make sure that that day, on the 27th, was fired by three o'clock in the morning, and it was planned that this day would also be shot, 28th to three o'clock in the morning, that it would not happen, which I had done by writing an order and giving instructions to the commander of the 72nd Brigade to try and explain in a dignified manner to the Americans. The three of us that we talked about at the time, we all talked accordingly, and this is evident. And I can easily prove that the guidelines that apply are guidelines to stick strictly to the agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Municipality of Postojna, which allows up to 10 days of night shooting. On that day, Mr Šefic also explained this to the mayor or Deputy Mayor of Postojna, the same with these words. From here it turns out it's very strange when the Secretary of Defense says that we all knew, only I didn't know, but we all knew. But we all knew one thing, and this one is different from the one the Secretary of Defense claims to be. We all knew that there were some directions, and that's to stick to the deal, shoot until 10 days at night, shoot only what's really necessary. Representatives of the Municipality of Postojna were explained that all activities were carried out by agreement, which they had resigned from, and that oral promises had been made regarding night shooting, but were never formalised in the form of an agreement. The congregation’s response is that this is true, but shooting large calibres after 23 p.m. is the most disturbing and dissatisfaction. Representatives of the congregation were also informed that this year’s exercises would be carried out because they were approved; the answer was that activities would be checked after 22 or 23 p.m. and that they would be completed by these hours, realizing that everything would probably not be possible. So this point confirms that Mr Šefic, Secretary of State of Grošelj and Miha Škerbinc lived in the same frame of reference. If it were different, they would tell me – we're violating the minister's guidelines, we're shooting wrong. No, we are shooting right, we are shooting in line with the agreement, but let us do something that will make this easier and that will enable Mr. Boss to have a better dialogue with municipal policy." And that's when the Force Commander did it. By the end of this week, it was no longer fired with large calibres after 11: 00 p.m. What's not to understand here? Mr. Secretary, again the things that hold and that are exactly the opposite. And since this is now public, I can say, thank God, Mr Grošelj has been elected to the European Parliament, otherwise I would probably cut him off next week. Just like a lot of people will. I mean, about the guys know who's gonna hit next week. Let's move on, List of Marjan Sarcas. What Jerca read; it is good that she let go, that there was no word in it, that there were political dinosaurs in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because then it would be too obvious that Damir Črnčec wrote it to her. Interestingly, Jerca is more burdened by Minister Erjavac than Minister Erjavec is burdening himself. And that really says how important Minister Erjavec is to Marjan Sarca. That the List of Marjan Šarc sets out a position that is in the defense of Minister Erjavac even above Desusov is unimaginable or representative in the light of what I used to say about the speaker. But it is necessary – I will say this because it is necessary to say so, and not least it was the media. When the 59th Article of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army began and General Alan Geder was suspended, I called him as a member of the Defence Committee and told him: “What is really going on? Why will this article fall?” And what I'm about to say is, I apologize to Mr. Geder, he's only got a year or two to retire, so probably someone who dropped him doesn't count on them to give him anywhere. He said to me, "Jane, do you know what Slavko Korča does to me? It breaks Article 59 and is the main one since his daughter is the vice-president of the largest government party." That's Jerca Korca. Since it was already in the media, I told you otherwise I wouldn't. But if this is the recruitment, if this is the demolition of high-ranking officers and generals by one inside just for the sake of family ties, then we really need to ask ourselves where this country came from. Because he did not receive that 19% supplement because he is a uniformed, employed on the MORS and not in the Slovenian Army. This was already all in the media, the denial not by Mr Korčet or by the Ministry of Defence or by the Slovenian Army. So much so that you will know how the Slovenian Army is politicising, especially who is politicising it. I have some more details, Mr. Secretary. If you challenge me or provoke me, I'll tell her. But believe me, it will not be pleasant for you, because it will clearly show that the Slovenian Army is politicized, but it will first and foremost show who is politicising it. And guess what, it doesn't politicise it on the basis of this, the Slovenian Democratic Party. I don't usually go to battles that I can't win, but if I have arguments on my side, I go to battle like this. And you better have them, too. It was heard from the LMŠ that no interpretations were made 2004-2008. Yes, of course, at the time we had a partnership for the development, cooperation of the coalition and the opposition, something that you are incapable of and do not want. You say that in the SDS we say everything that is not, the SDS must be destroyed. Here, all that is SDS needs to be destroyed – this is your concept and your model. This is your concept and your model. Despite the fact that I can commend Jerco for her outstanding constructiveness in recent days, as far as the Law on the Community of Students is concerned, which I hope we will find common interest. But that is all that is on your side – perhaps a change of two, three words in any marriage. Otherwise, you're rejecting everything. You're putting away everything that was, which smells like SDS. And that's the politicization, Mr. Secretary. As part of the intention to find the individual guilt of Karl Erjavac to do so – this is not true. Karl Erjavac's guilt differs from what he did after what he said. And if someone violates the law, he cheats, he lies – look, you have such a minister. You have such a minister. It also says inside what the Americans said. And believe me, Miha Škerbinc is appreciated by the Americans, Karl Erjavec is not! At that time, the Americans said that the matter would obviously need to be closed in Slovenia because we did not stick to the agreements because obviously they were not welcome and because all things are unstable here. If the exercise is planned for a year and a half and a half, then the minister says the American army is going to shoot Postojna, and we have the Chief of General Staff, who didn't go to protest the next day, what the Minister is saying about our army. Of course, because her spine is already bent like this in front of the minister because she's politically motivated. And this is the politicisation of the Slovenian Army, Mr. Minister, of whom you speak! But these words you say about the politicization of the Slovenian Army are boomerang, which comes back to your head when you throw it away. Based on the facts and everything. Jerca said: “We know you can do more and you can write a more well-founded interpretation.” It is said that you know that there is a minister in your government who deserves to be intertwined. Who is this and why are you still tolerating him? But I can't imagine, and I don't know how you could write an interpolation even more legitimately than to prove what was broken. She even said we've been SDS too long in politics. How long will someone in politics be told by the electorate? The voters also told you in such a way that you lost all four elections in the last year and a half. Yes, it's true. You've formed a government. I was sure that Marjan Sarec would have a position today and that it would be his evergreen: you are doing this because you are disappointed because you failed to form a government. Excuse me, what you're doing, for your country – with Harry Furlan forward with someone named Harry Furlana, with ministers he calls us or at least me personally, I will speak on my own behalf, I do not imagine cooperation with any party. [[…]] I prefer to stay in the opposition with my back up, defend what I have consistently advocated, that I can still look my constituents and voters in the eye, rather than form a government just to have it, with two parties who would blackmail us, and then overthrow the government. With people like that, I can't imagine them forming a government. I would rather be dead, I stand for everything that is, like the Prime Minister, who, at the time of the debate in this House, will continue to violate human rights for primary school children from Catholic schools, right back there in the capital at the home church. You know, that's low and mean. Low and mean. To lick all the altars of the church, and finally to do so in the country — low and low. First of all, that you, LMŠ, have appointed decency – yes, that is why you appointed Karl Erjavac as minister. And someone else. That's why you called Harry Furlan the Attorney General. That's who you are. There's something in the words. There's something else in the works. The words were before the elections, the words are for this speaker, and the actions will be in the vote today. If these arguments don't convince you, then someone should tell me what the Minister of Defense would have to do to earn the interpolation. And what's interesting is that even in LMŠ, they don't know what official needs are. Jerca said: “The final point is read as your interpretation.” I mean, obviously no one has the right to be interpreted, but look at the last point again. It is not clear to me how the numbers that speak of the departure of members and members of the Slovenian Army from the system can be our interpretation. If in five years it's for a battalion and half as many soldiers, how can that be our interpretation? Based on this figure, there can be only two interpretations. Ours is that it's bad, and yours is that it's good. Which is the right thing for people to say. As you set up your expertise, they also prove the words of Golubović there at President Pahor's office when he said: "If he has our membership card in his pocket, it is even better." Then the expertise is not questionable, and then the expertise is in place. But if he's got our membership card, he's the one. “The defence system has not been cleansed of harmful individuals”, we have heard from the LMŠ. Why did she not say directly that the defence system had not cleansed all those who had conquered Slovenia in 1991 and who were giving credit to then-defunct minister Janez Janša? You'd clean up the defense system, but of course certain individuals. At the same time – I think he'll run out in the fall – where will you put Brigadier David Humar? Someone who fought with Mladic down in Plitvice who crossed into the Slovenian Army from JLA after a border date. Thank God, the previous term is on our initiative, and in our protest, the President of the State of Borut Pahor stopped the madness, the madness that was called to give him the rank of general. What's he like now? Is that true what the Fire Report says? You will withdraw the chief, head for chief, and Humar probably – where? For deputy chief, for general position? Someone who was in an army acting against his own country at the time of his independence. Again, Mr. Jurša, these are my statements, and you tell me what's not true. The abuse of commission. After the meetings are held in front of the media, the law is clear, even if things are classified and abuse has occurred, it is the public's interest to find out. That's when President Tonin authorized me, and I told him what was going on in the ODS. And that's why I got reported to the police. They reported to the police, did not press charges against me – because they know how the case will end. It's like when they didn't attack Tonin, but they just reported it to the police, and the police ended it. Because if there's a violation and if you don't disclose sensitive personal data, then it's not a secret release. In view of the fact that the Commission found that the infringements had taken place, we were then obliged to say so. Knovs never commented on anything that would be sensitive information, even though someone really likes to fly in front of the cameras, and President Tonin warned him, but from some coalition party. Of course, we do not betray or betray because we know that we are acting responsibly. At the time of the expulsion of these three radicalized trucks, we knew this in Knovs four months earlier, and this did not come out because we are aware of the responsibility we bear and the responsibility we have. As far as Social Democrats are concerned, interpellation means stabilisation. I just said that. What is the greater stabilisation, or the fact that a supercoaly party is forcing you to stop supporting the government, or this interpellation? And you're stable because you're going to support a minister who's breaking laws and lying. What kind of destabilisation are we talking about? Interpellation against the Minister of Labour has been mentioned by Mr Bevk. Yeah, there were 44 votes in this interview, 37 against. This is said to have, however, not been made without purpose and that, however, almost half of the Members have been convinced of what is going on. “The Minister gives concrete and good arguments.” I don't know where the SD party representative is hearing this, but I didn't hear it. And that there are many such deceptions and misinterpretations of provisions. The law, the article, the paragraph, the indent. Just that, nothing else. If I make a claim based on the law, I expect that the counter argument is also a claim based on the law. Not "No, you're wrong." Why am I wrong? So because Mr Bevk said it was a national resource, we attacked a national resource. [[…]] It's so much more important if it's a national resource with some real force that things happen there the way they have to. And if you don't, then we have to warn you what's wrong. As far as SMC's concerned. Mr Zorčič himself mentioned HNMP, helicopter emergency medical care – of course this year there will be no, even if it will be the second year. The minister prefers to spend the money he could spend on things from the Slovenian Army for something else. It's also obvious here that it can be resolved, it can be resolved, it can be written on the basis of official needs, but I don't know why it's so difficult for all of you to turn a leaf in marriage, where it's written what the official needs are. Look, it's just a leaf to turn around or go down a little bit with a mouse. Just that, nothing else, you'll see: the official needs are this, this, this, this, this. And show me where the officer's official need is on the transition formation, and I'll give you the right. But that's not it. You can say I'm wrong, and then I'll say, "Why am I wrong?" “Yes, because you’re wrong. Because that's what's been going on." No, that's not how it happened. Cases were different. And that he gave directions to the shooting only after the final exercise of the Brief, then things repeat. [[…]] I hope I have argued against all your claims, although it is difficult with arguments to go to something where there are no arguments, but be enough so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u25	Minister of Defence Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! I have to explain things again, because apparently Member Mahnic understands very poorly. I also understand that he's never dealt with law, given that he's graduated from a completely different school. As far as Security Intelligence is concerned, I repeat, there has been no abuse here. For the first time since the tasks of the Security Intelligence Service are divided into three sets. One is an intelligence activity, I said in the introductory address, what this involves, then anti-intelligence activity and security activity. This, however, is the activity that is carried out in pursuit of ecstasy, violations of the rules of services within the defence system. We have fewer than 300 of these cases every year. Such informational conversations, such as when voices arise that he may be drinking in one unit, that harassment may occur, may result in bullying. In this case, staff members of the Security Intelligence Service shall have the right under the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police to conduct informational talks in order to clarify these circumstances whether the event actually took place. For example, whether there was actually drunkenness, whether there was actually harassment, or whether there was actually bullying. And in this case, it was so that we received information that, before being on board, the Force Commander Škerbinc was to speak inappropriately about the health condition of Chief General Staff. This constitutes a violation of the rules of service. Condemnation also constitutes a crime. But at this stage, it was only about gathering information to hold informative discussions, whether this really happened. Because I have to say that when they told me this was supposed to happen, I said first, it's not possible. Because it's such a repulsive act, such an extraordinary act that it's impossible for a brigade to do it with such an act before the lineup. Regrettably, informational discussions and even conversation with the brigade confirmed that he was talking about these things. Therefore, after the completion of my implementation, I will also propose that we close the meeting of the National Assembly so that you will not only see what individual members of the Slovenian Army have said, but also what Brigadier Škerbinc has said. And this one told me very precisely what he said, and I must say, it was an ugly talk about Chief of Staff. And that you are now setting his discharge only for the visa of official needs – look, we have in the transitional formation unit, I think 66 members of the Slovenian Army and there is also a general. But this resolution was urgently needed because the chief found out that there was no more trust. Brigadier Škerbinc himself admits that the chief has the right to gather his closest associates, especially when he loses his trust. And, of course, the Minister is obliged to follow the Commissioner's proposal. How could it be understood that she would have proposed a solution and I would not have accepted it? That would be a mistrust to the chief, for it would make it impossible for her to put together a team of people she trusted. I must say, we trusted Colonel Šerbinec, so he was placed in such a high position. Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces Command, this is the highest operational task! And then you're asking the thesis and doubting whether he's responsible for the events at the Poček exercise when it came to night shooting. Who will be responsible if not an operational commander? I can't be responsible. For the first time since the design of the Defence System exercise plan was prepared in 2019 23. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Alan Geder, then Chief of Staff, was signed. Here you can see that this material has been made aware, and it has also helped prepare the Brigadier Miha Škerbinc. He co-authored this material, a proposal that then went to the government on January 24th. What does this proposal say? It says, "Vaja Sokol (Eagle), 72th Brigade is responsible for performing with support not more than 60 millimetres [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] For the Slovenian Army, yes. Americans, however, have the same conditions as the Slovenian Army. There's no special regime for Americans. And I don't know why you're leaving now. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I believe you will need it, especially after we close the meeting of the National Assembly. So this delusion that he did not know – he confirmed the material that went to the government. At the time he was Chief of Staff, then became Commander of the Force Command, operationally responsible for the implementation of this plan. By making the Government Decision of 24. 1. 2019 and we got him to the Ministry of Defence, he went this decision immediately to General Staff and General Staff immediately forwarded this decision to the Commander of the Force Command, that is to say Brigadier Mihi Škerbinc. And that's why it's not true that he didn't know. You're challenging my guidelines, which are linked to the government's decision! What is the problem, though, if the minister says respect the government's decision to exercise the Falcon (Eagle), where it is stipulated that shooting will be only up to 60 millimeters? And now the minister is a criminal, the minister has violated all the rules! The fact that someone doesn't respect the government's decision, that's fine, but he's a hero of the Slovenian Army. And then the next day after the exercise even fix – look at this document – fix it because he sees that it's messed up. And what does he say? “In carrying out the shooting with firearms at the Central Exercise Centre Postojna, in addition to the limits of the agreement with the Municipality of Postojna, take into account the following limits: complete the shooting with a.60-millimeter.m.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't know how he was preparing the government's decision, if we see that on April 4th he doesn't even know that he shouldn't have fired a caliber higher than 60 millimeters. And then: “Fire with weapons calibre including up to 60 millimetres shall be completed by 24 hours at the latest.” And now Karl Erjavec is guilty of shooting himself in Postojna at night and that people were upset that they were protesting what the Slovenian Army was doing again, not respecting what was agreed upon. Look, there's no responsibility here for Karl Erjavac. The guidelines were given in accordance with the Government's decision, but unfortunately the Commander of the Force Command did not carry out his homework. And then these two famous documents. One is dated to date 17. 12. 2018, when there was no government decision at all. But what's on this document? Only: I authorize Colonel Rodet to sign this joint plan for the cooperation of the Slovenian army with the United States. It's the same thing as 18. 3. 2019: I hereby authorize Petra Zakrajška, Colonel, to sign a plan for the participation of the Slovenian army with the United States. But, of course, it has to take into account the Government's conclusions. And here, where there is then an annex at the end, which only talks about what equipment the Americans will come with, but not only for practice at Poček, but generally for exercises in Slovenia, is also mentioned. But in this annex, you will not see when to shoot where to shoot, so this document is not at all the basis for shooting at the Eagle exercise on March 27, when that night shooting took place. Just because they're with them doesn't mean they have the right to shoot. And stop deceiving the Slovenian public! Now let's move on. Regarding the politicisation of the Slovenian Army. Look what you're doing as Vice-President of the Intelligence and Security Services Commission! That's where you deal with Počko! So what's Chuck got to do with it?Oh, my God! What does this have to do with monitoring security, intelligence, Owls, and I don't know what? And even if you are doing this – look, because I don't care because you can't come anywhere about shooting at Poček because the conclusion of the government is quite clear. But politicization in the Slovenian Army. It is interesting to me, for example, for you to inform me from this town that yesterday, Brigadier Škerbinc gave, I don't know, a complaint or a complaint against me and the Director of Security Intelligence. How do you know that? Are you friends or something? Does he just call you and get to know you or what? What? [[advertising from the hall]] Don't get upset. Aya, that's what he sent. But oddly, why didn't he send it to me? It'd be nice, wouldn't it? Or let's just say that you know about every conversation Mr. Brigadier Šerbintz has with the chief, what was on the phone, what was not. So what do you guys have?Oh, my God! So what do you guys have? But you also know that Geder called you, former Chief of Staff, “Listen, Jean”, so to the magnetogram, “Listen, Jean”. So, what kind of relationship are these? Some professional officers, high-ranking officers call for politics, sometimes he was the president of the Defence Committee, now that's not it anymore. As he called you? Are you guys friends or something? What are you doing? And strangely, when we speak of David Hummar, he is the number one enemy. But he was fighting Mladic, and I don't know what he was doing. And then you're telling me that this isn't about politicization of the Slovenian Army. You read one of the inserts from the closed session of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, and you say: “The Swiss have misunderstood.” I hope, Mr Mahnic, that when the meeting of the National Assembly is closed, you will understand exactly what his statements were. Colonel Šerbintz's statements on medical condition. Because those were his statements. And when this meeting of the National Assembly is closed, we will read these statements what he said. But what will be the result? That you are lying all the time and that you are deceiving the Slovenian public as well as this national assembly. Then you talk about being well informed, who is elected by members of the Slovenian Army, that you know that they did not vote for the SDS. How do you know that? But as Vice-President of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission? Maybe you're getting some information there. Because it is very unusual for me to know how members of the Slovenian Army vote. [[advertising from the hall]] You're gonna say it because you talked about it. And then you say, "There has never been an investigation and there has never been a problem with the health status of others." You mentioned the former Chief of Staff, but there was no problem. You know, when we talk about the health condition of someone, for the first time, it's an invasion of privacy, which is absolutely forbidden in the military structure. It's an intervention in privacy, in dignity. And you'd understand if the chief broke her finger and said, look, she had bad luck, she fell, she broke her finger. But when you read for yourself that Brigadier Škerbinc is talking about psychological problems, we are going to a field that is very sensitive, especially the system such as the defence system. Because then what happens? Then we've got shows like the Factor I'm gonna find. Oh, here it is. Look what happens because of things like this. You have Mr. Aljuš Pertinač, I think you know him, he's the head of the Factor show, saying: "But you haven't answered my question. If it proves to be true what we know right now, we cannot prove – that the Chief of Staff was at the psychiatric hospital – can she still enjoy the trust of the soldiers or is she even fit for such a situation?» Lucija Šikovec Ušaj, who participated on this show, says: “Now it is so, probably abroad such a person would not be suitable for a position. This must be discovered." You're saying there's no harm, nothing, it's some kind of rumor. Then you have Aljuš Pertinac, who says at the end: “We are talking about Alenka Ermenc, proposed by Karl Erjavec and confirmed by the government of Marjan Šarc, and the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor gave his blessing on this when he was already put before the fact. In short, Alenka Ermenc was hospitalized in a psychiatric hospital, at least such information came out to the public, and then Karl Erjavec ordered the Ministry of Defence Intelligence to verify how this information came to the public." I mean, I don't want to banalize such matters – that some talk about health for a military organization has no consequences. What a terrible consequence! Especially when the Chief of Staff, when he's going abroad, asks how he's doing with his health, but everything's fine. Yeah, you can laugh because you're irresponsible. That's why you're laughing. And I wonder what the ambassadors are reporting on this matter that you're instilling in the future. What do the military attachés say about the leadership of the Slovenian Army, about the chief, about the medical condition? The fact is that the second highest officer in the Slovenian Army spoke about this. And it's not in closed company, it's not at home, it's in front of the squad! And you quietly support and tolerate this and say what kind of hero the Šerbinc brigade was, because he went to rescue when he was hungry. But I'm telling you what a hero he is today, what he was doing today, or when he was in that outfit. Is that honorable? Is this in line with the rules of service? Will you find an article that says it's possible that there's nothing wrong with this, that it's some kind of rumor? That's how you informed the public and deceived her that it's not true that Colonel Škerbinc would say anything ugly about Chief of General Staff. However, you participated in a meeting at the headquarters of the Security Intelligence Service, where you were presented with all these things. I don't know if you didn't listen to me, if you were sitting on your ears, but it's clear from the record that they introduced you to this. That you were probably sitting in your ears or even cheating on the Slovenian public, your statements that you made in the last performance, where you're talking about that Brigadier Škerbinc was not aware of the topic of the conversation, why the intelligence officers came in, why the soldiers were not shown that this informational conversation was voluntary and that, if they wanted to, they could also demand anonymity because of fear. We have it, we have official signatures, names and surnames. But unfortunately, they also said they were afraid to say with full names because they were afraid of the consequences of Brigadier Šerbinec. I must say, in these days, there has been a lot of pressure from Brigadier Šerbinc within the defence system. For one case you know for yourself – the director of the ODS told you yesterday that he received a certain text from Brigadier Škerbinc. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, because you will clear that up there at the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission meeting, given that you will continue this session with the Director of the Security Intelligence Service and then with the Chief. I also have to correct the Member of the Victory of Jelinčič. I think he was talking about the fact that the Commissioner did not respond to the Commission's hearing on the supervision of security and intelligence services. I have to say, she responded, and yesterday this conversation was held and will continue. So much so that the information is reliable. As I have also observed somewhere in the media, today that Commissioner General Staff avoids hearings, participates in the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. That's not true. She was at this hearing yesterday. I'd stop at this point because we can fight for a long time. We know that Mr Mahnic is explaining right in his own way, just as he is explaining it. Then we can see that Mr Mahnic was either sitting in his ears when he was on a visit to the Intelligence Security Service, or he is deliberately deceiving the Slovenian public. Therefore, I propose that the President that the meeting of the National Assembly be closed, so that I can prove by documents all that I have just said – that Mr Škerbinc has actually spoken ill of the Chief of Staff and that he has confirmed it himself; that the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who have been heard have been made clear that it is informational procedures, that it is not a forecasting procedure, that it is clearly said that it is a voluntary information discussion, and it has been said clearly that it can be anonymous, but of course we have official labels on their names and surnames. So that the debate can be based on facts, not on what someone says, but on concrete facts, I propose that the meeting of the National Assembly be closed. There I will prove that Mr Mahnic, Member of the National Assembly, is misleading the Slovenian public and that he is lying. He likes to use that word against Minister Karel Erjavac, but [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, the documents are of an internal nature, you can see them, but if the National Assembly wants them, it can also decide to open these documents to the public. But I think you're gonna blush.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I note that the Minister of Defence has announced that he will raise questions in the debate on data which have an internal level of secrecy and has also proposed to the assembly that part 1 of the agenda should therefore be held at a meeting without public presence. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall take a decision thereon at a meeting without public presence. Please turn off all electronic devices or just take them out of the hall at the closed part of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and interrupt the 24th meeting for 15 minutes, so that the assembly services can prepare all necessary for the meeting without public presence. We will continue the meeting at 2.25 p.m. in 15 minutes when we decide on the proposed decision. (The sitting was suspended at 14.11 and resumed at 16.24.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u28	Continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda. Mr Jan Mahnic spoke first. As soon as there's some peace in the hall. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u29	Thank you, Vice President. I must say, I'm very disappointed. We closed the session for no reason because there were no new things. All that has been said is 90% of this already in the Magnography of the interrogation of Miha Škerbinc in front of Knovs. All we've learned is that there's a conflicting statement between the chief and the brigadier Škerbinec. Too bad, Minister, you could say yourself, remove the level of secrecy, and we'd like to make this public. If you were to make this public, the story would be different. Above all, it is the first time that the ODS, after having made one record, has done one more work, or whether you have adjusted it according to the needs of your own work and the government, and above all how it is possible that something else will come out of this report on the basis of individual interrogations at the end of this report, or when members say, this could mean this, it is clear from this minutes that the ODS said: "This meant this." In short, the ODS worked here politically motivated. I just want to answer some questions before the meeting is closed. You said I wasn't a legal expert. I know I didn't, because I didn't study law, and you did, if I'm right. And if you're such a legal expert, why didn't you take over the Justice Department? You'd be Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vlasta Vivod could also be Head of the Cabinet. Yeah, well, the car doesn't have a secretary of justice. [[advertising from the hall]] No, look, he started it. But the thing is, if he says he's a legal expert, then he'd take over the Justice Department. Mr Minister said: “This is what happens when there are rumors.” Yeah, that's what happens when there are rumors, but the rumors, specifically by the commander you solved, were, after those rumors were already in public, when those rumors were already published in the work log and then in the fire report. All that needs to be done, Mr Minister, is to have an informative conversation with the Brigadier, the whole matter could be done differently, but of course it is not and you prefer to take a different path. The minister said: "This Škerbinc was an operational commander." Ladies and gentlemen, look at the minister you have. He doesn't even know who the operational commander is. The operational commander is the commander of the brigade who conducted the exercise, and this is Colonel Zanoskar. He's an operating commander, Mr. Secretary, not a Colonel Miha Škerbinc. As Secretary of Defense, we could at least know what an operational commander is. Excuse me, not Zanoškar, but Colonel Peter Zacrošek. He's the commander of the 72nd Brigade and he was the operational commander, not Colonel Škerbinc. If you don't know that as Minister, then I understand that you're also misinterpreting other things. What's the matter with the Knovs? That's what we've already said. In view of the fact that the Director himself said that Poček was also checked by the ODS, it is clear from this, as President Tonin said at the closed meeting, that we are concerned about all the activities of the ODS. How do members of the Slovenian Army vote, how do I know? Of course, I don't know this, but, Mr Minister, believe me, that Members can do certain things that happen in the military, we only know in this way that the soldiers are writing to us to contact us. I haven't been here long, but I've met some people in five years. You misunderstood me. General Geder didn't call me, but I did when I heard what was going on. However, if, as a member of the Defence Committee, I cannot call anyone to ask him a question, then, Minister, if you have the authority to speak to Members and Members of the National Assembly or any of the citizens, to whom he may speak and to whom he may not – see, this is really dangerous. I want Karl Erjavec in this country to decide who I'm going to talk to or who any of you are going to talk to. We should all protest that! Mr. Minister, you probably have an empty sheet of A4, let me write down who I can even hang out with. Who I can communicate with. Please, but I'm going to know roughly what Karl Erjavac's will is, what people can do, and what we can't do. That's how you go, Mr. Secretary. However, I can say that I will continue to be open to the information provided by members and members of the Slovenian Army. Because without information, work would not be possible to the extent it is. Neither the Defence Committee is in favour of this, nor Knovs is in favour of just discussing what you bring to our table. But it's on every Member whether they know something or ask themselves. But believe me, I have to ask others because I don't believe you, Mr. Secretary, and I don't trust you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. I see that after a closed session of the National Assembly, there is a lot of bitterness in your performances, and this morning you perform quite differently. Which, of course, I'm not surprised. With whom can you communicate – I must say that I am happy that you may not be a member of the Home Affairs Committee. [[advertising from the hall]] And this? I hope you're not communicating with the NPU, with criminals when they're conducting some ongoing criminal investigations. Because it's self-evident for you. If you can communicate with the senior representatives of the Slovenian Army on official matters across all lines – I hope you are not in some friendly relationship, but as a member of the committee you are communicating – then I am concerned that you have said that you are a member of the Committee on Internal Affairs. I hope we don't ever find out that you're also communicating with the NPU, with criminals, with the chief of police, and you're asking a little bit about what the investigation is like, what the procedure is. I'm really worried about how badly you understand the rule of law, the rule of law, and the division of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u33	In view of the fact that you have been informed both by Brigadier Škerbinc and by the union, I expect you not to communicate with the Minister of the Interior or with the Minister of Justice from this day forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u34	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u35	I will no longer comment on this nonsense spoken by the MP of the National Assembly, because it is inappropriate for someone sitting in the National Assembly. But once again, there is one deep bitterness and disappointment after we have held a closed session of the National Assembly. That's what I can figure out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u36	Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u37	I recall the previous term when the interpretation was against Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac. He came to a pay phone without any paper, first congratulated his mother for her birthday, here making jokes for half an hour to laugh at him. Did you notice what happened today? His voice was shaking, his hand was shaking, he was reading everything. As long as lefty didn't say she wasn't voting. And then Karl Erjavac fell to his heart, and now he's Erjavec again, who knows that he'll definitely survive the interpellation today. There is no bitterness on our part, we have submitted the interpretation, according to the views of the parliamentary groups, we know what the result will be, and you did not know until Left said, and now we are leaving the hall. Then you changed your discourse. You can take every look at your performance earlier and your performance 3, 4 years ago, I think 2016 when you were here interviewed as an external minister. Different than day and night.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u38	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u39	You do have a vivid imagination. The fact that you are not a legal expert has been seen from your opening debate when you defended this non-professional interpretation. You don't know math, but you've proven it now. Look, you have 36 votes, Left 9, that's 45 votes – what would happen? What would happen? With someone missing, say Violet Tomić I don't see, and so on. So, of course, your assumptions don't hold up, as usual. You've got something on your mind. But I see you remind me of someone who couldn't even count and count in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u40	It's totally unpredictable, Mr. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Erjavec has been Minister for so long, but he could have known that when the Group of Members said it would support the Minister, then voting with Members is not always in line with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u42	If we have concluded this part of the debate, Mr Jože Lenart has the first of the Members and Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister, respectable government council, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I would just like to mention that, of course, I will speak as a member of the National Assembly, but at the same time, I would like to say that I am also a war veteran in 1991, because the content may be a little bit based on this. To understand why in that sense. Whether I can trust the Slovenian defence forces after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, one wonders today about what is happening in this temple of democracy. God knows what we're going to hear today until the end of this interpolation. Similarly, observers who accompany us may ask themselves the same question. They probably have similar questions. Mr. Jan Mahnic, we certainly understand very differently the meaning of the word hero in practice. That word has a special place in the army. Using the word hero for purposes and in the process of destabilising the government is offensive to the heroes who are confronted with it. This word here today has nothing to look for in this context. On 25 June 1991, the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted. On this day we celebrate the day of statehood of Slovenia. Next week, June 27, 2019, will be 28 years from the attack of the Yugoslav People's Army on our sovereignty. In the following days, we defended our sovereignty with weapons 28 years ago, and I am proud to have participated in the fight in Koroška to defend the sovereignty of the state of Slovenia. I am proud of Slovenia as a democratic Republic and of the rule of law and of the social state and deeply respect the values gained. Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the permanent and inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. In Slovenia, power is vested in the people. Citizens and citizens shall exercise it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters. The defence of the State is compulsory for citizens within the borders and in the manner laid down by the law. The type, scope and organisation of the defence, inviolability and integrity of the State territory are governed by the law adopted by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. The implementation of the defence shall be supervised by the National Assembly. In ensuring security, the country comes mainly from peace policy and a culture of peace and non-violence. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these are the words of our Constitution, to which every seduced Slovenian who respects this constitution and its values has deep respect. Playing and being disrespectful to these acquisitions or exploiting them in any way for the purposes of destabilisation is an unacceptable and unrealistic act. Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers to the interpretation of the work of the Government or of the individual minister. At least 10 Members may initiate interpretation in the National Assembly of the work of the Government or of the individual minister. If, after the discussion on the interpretation, the majority of Members express their distrust to the government or to the individual minister, the State Assembly shall dismiss the government or ministers. The decision to interpret must be based on substantial reasons, reasons which clearly justify the suspensions and breaches of the essential democratic values of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when a group of Members or Members of the Group decides to take such a step, shall bear full responsibility before the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, the domestic and foreign public. The interpolation charges must be clear and mature, and above all they must be seriously substantiated. This is not a game and fun individuals as they were not a game of constitutional acquisition. As was made clear in Jerce Korča's position today, there were nine interpretations in the previous term, together in Slovenia alone 41. This indicates the apparent unreality and apparent abuse of Article 118 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The perceptions of interpolation are also unfounded and do not deserve room in a serious democratic society. Those marks belong to the washing of dirty laundry in public. These are indications that should be resolved in systems at operational level. Discrimination is detected in the event. However, since you have become accustomed in the past to this as a normal way of doing things that you are not ashamed of, here or before the temple of democracy or in front of the domestic and foreign public, it is even fun for you, as I also find in the corridors of this house. With such a way of working, you bear the responsibility for destabilisation and mistrust that you cause, and above all, you yourself appear to be an unrealistic part of the democracy that goes on in the sandbox. The seventh force, in writing, bears the responsibility for stability or instability and public opinion on the Slovenian Army. Like: under-estimation, fall of the battalion battle group on Nate's tests, complications with raises, stolen ammunition, unfortunate decaying boots, battle vehicles 4x4, 8x8, followed by interpolation with torn and pale eyes. What we're looking at here today. All of this is written in public in a way that is not appropriate. For me, it's an army. It's a very serious defense. It represents the security we have guaranteed ourselves in 1991 and earlier in the preparations. We bear responsibility in NATO's common defence forces, and the decision to do so is also enshrined in the constitution. Of course we have problems in the Slovenian Army. We don't provide enough troops, our weapons are outdated and we don't follow Nate's collective commitments. We build on a rise of trust and we give more resources to the military, and we have to justify that. However, I wonder how young people will choose to be soldiers, what will be the confidence and motivation of existing soldiers and officers if we make such unserious signals to the public, if we do not respect superiors, we discriminate against them, we accuse ourselves. Seriously, is this an army that we can rely on? In January 1980, I served as an army in the third army in Bitola, Macedonia. With the attack on Afghanistan that month, we spent a month in an outdoor fortification at minus 15, minus 20 degrees. Trusting in the superiors was perfect. In October 1990, as a member of the special territorial defence unit in Koroška, I received an automatic rifle and a gun with ammunition, which I kept in the closet of my apartment until the call at the beginning of June 1991, as did many of my comrades. This was the weapon we had to defend at JLA 27. 6. 1991. It never occurred to us to disobey orders from our superiors. Anyone who didn't take part in this mission could have left. And some of them are gone. When I compare what happened today with today's interpolation charges, I'd rather bite my tongue so as not to say anything strong. I'm not proud of the way democracy works in this temple. Dearly beloved, the military must respect the hierarchy, the superiors must be professional, determined and confident. Then the army will follow them. Anyone who doesn't accept it can't be in these kinds. We have good models, from Malgai to Maister, National Liberation Fight, defending the sovereign Slovenia since 1991. Let us not allow this to be lost in freedom, independence, and sovereignty. I want to trust the Slovenian Army. The Ministry of Defence wants us to respect what we have written down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Iva Dimic, and Mr Yuri Leprechaun is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He talks about why interpolation is necessary, why interpolation is not necessary – I think you have reviewed everything, the whole history, how many interpolations were in the previous term, how many were there at the time of Slovenian independence, and I am sure that you have also read the contents of the interpolations and you knew why the interpolations were submitted. When it is found that any action by the Minister was illegal or that he did not take on subjective or objective responsibilities. When this happens, the interpolation is fully justified and all interpolations so far speak in this direction. Of course, it is very interesting to discuss what is really not true, at the interpretation, even in the closed part of the session. But let me tell you, this is my second intervention to Minister Erjavac, the first to be in the previous government when he was representing the Foreign Ministry. Let me just say one thing: I'm sorry that the sessions are closing. Because what was said in the previous term at the closed session should be known and heard by people because I am sure that the result of the elections would be different. And they won't be able to find out until 30 years from now. At today’s closed session of interpolation, as has been said today — a mountain was shaking, a mouse was born. There was nothing new that we could not read in all the newspapers. The fact is, at the Ministry of Defence, there are no soldiers, that the army is half barefoot, not to be spoken of, what and how, and not to solve matters. Above all, they also have problems sending someone on various missions. At the moment, I am aware that they do not know who will lead the mission to Afghanistan. So, something's wrong. People simply no longer want to expose themselves, take over leadership functions, and this is a reflection of the whole of Slovenia. Because those responsible for such a situation do not take responsibility. Here is Charca's words about taking over the government, that there will now be a different government, with new standards, and above all, it is time for a new generation – I am really waiting for the time to come for new generations. New generations with old generations. I also strongly support some co-existence and intergenerational cooperation, but if you say time is for a new generation, and then we have ministers, not just him, but ministers, who have already put a few governments through, and we also know how they have not taken responsibility, it seems to me that it is really a waste of words. And, of course, do some kind of closing session show. For me, it's just a show. Once again, the closing of meetings — I feel that what people need to know is being said there many times without knowing it in 30 years. It seems to me that accounting in this way and the personal discredit of Brigadier Škerbinc does not come to a minister. It doesn't bother him. It seems to me that if you're a minister, not then tell someone who's lying, who's not lying, who's unfaithful, who's faithful, and so on. I am convinced that the people who are in the army in these positions, the brigades, the officers and so on – they are soldiers. They have a different mind than we do. They have in their hearts, in their heads an army, a distribution and so on. This is not a policy that is one day at one ministry, two years at the other, then at the third and so on. They don't change political chairs, they're soldiers. One more thing. I have experienced the greatest impression of citizens and citizens as the government stood up. The question was, how could a minister be someone who didn't get a vote? That was the greatest impression I've ever had. How can a minister become someone who doesn't get people's trust in elections where you're practically weighed down, whether you're good or not, you have enough support for yourself or not? Minister Erjavec didn't get it this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri Leprechaun has a word to prepare Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dearly beloved, welcome to all! Today I'm going to try to be the way I am by nature, so I'm not going to go into this water, and then I'm going to fight one side or the other. I'm gonna try to talk like I think it's right for our country. Today we have a state-level control over the functioning of the executive branch of power, this is what the government says. In particular, Members of Parliament are overseeing the work of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister of Defence. Personally, I am sure that the Minister will respond with concrete and clear arguments — something that is already being said — to the interpellationers to all their questions and claims, as well as to various instigations. But it's hard to answer questionable assumptions or words like: I've heard, I've been told, I've been told. Or even: in a closed public meeting, I learned something burdensome for the minister. It grieves me very much that there is today a public debate on our defence forces, its power or its powerlessness, its organisation, then on human resources problems, and above all it is unacceptable for me to have disputes within the military hierarchy at a purely personal level. Relations between superiors and subordinates are known in each military formation. First you follow orders, then you complain. This does not mean that you can be in charge of all the allowances, but it is clear that the role of Minister of Defence is very high in the order of decision-making in our country. The discharge of the Slovenian Armed Forces Commander took place on the basis of law due to the need for effective functioning of the organisation, i.e. due to official duties – as far as I can understand as a Member. This is how civil control of the military and command system in the Slovenian Army works. In the Slovenian Army there were more similar discharges, both in higher and lower positions. The replaced were certainly not satisfied and pleased when they were replaced, but they had more dignity and pride and knew, given the professionalism, honour and other values in the Slovenian Army, the decision of the Minister, Chief of General Staff or Commander of the Armed Forces of the Slovenian Army. In my debate, I will not, on purpose, mention the names and surnames of the persons involved. In my firm belief, the National Assembly is not a place to wash dirty laundry in the Slovenian Army, but it is a place where arguments, actions and decisions are needed to work for the benefit of our country of Slovenia. We all like to say that we are proud of our country, which was created on 26 June 1991, and it is right that we are proud. We must be aware, however, that the Republic of Slovenia did not arise at once. Throughout the centuries our ancestors had to fight for independence and prove their identity, in World War I and before it, in World War II, and the last great stone in the mosaic of independence Republic of Slovenia we added in 1991. I remember events in our previous homeland when we were young boys going to soldiers with fear and pride at the same time. When you came to the barracks, you were actually a number, but you had to stick to order and discipline. In each military formation, without command, there is an immediate mess, thus breaking up the system and becoming an easy prey to our opponents. At that time, military service was compulsory, and now we have a professional army with civilian control in a country of our own. This is precisely why we need to be more careful not to sow doubts within the Slovenian Army and its Commanderial formation. I was also a unionist myself in a major company in 1984, in the previous century, I am almost certain that the union in the military is not to influence relations between the Minister, the Chief of Staff and the Commander of the forces of the Slovenian Army. But we had other things and other responsibilities back then. That's just my belief. Believe me, I respect the knowledge of young graduates who contribute greatly and contribute to the development of our society with their energy and drive. The experience of the elderly is equally important. I have a feeling that some want to achieve their goal regardless of the consequences, even at the cost of displaying non-public information and which should remain secret. Just because Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec is an experienced man and has one successful mandate as Minister of Defence, I support him and will not vote in favour of the interpretation. I want many wise decisions for all of us and all the good of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Šiško has the next word and the Mag is ready. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u49	Dear Vice President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Karl Erjavec! First of all, I congratulate you on your personal holiday. But in my vote, I'm sure there won't be a vote for your support. I'll give you an explanation. I must say that this is not only my position and the position of the Slovenian National Party, which is also the opinion of most citizens of Slovenia. I'm sure there's a lot of that opinion in the coalition itself, but of course you're defending the minister because he's your coalition partner. You do not fear for him, but you fear that the coalition or government will not break down and lose its position. Let me tell you that as a candidate for the minister, I have not supported you anymore because of the arrogance with which you performed your interrogation. At that time, you boasted that you can negotiate with other parties and that is why they take you to the government, but you've seen the Slovenian National Party that we're once in Parliament, and the second time you're not. Well, if I were you, I wouldn't brag about it, because if things go as well as they did in the last elections, you'd disappear as some of the other parties in the current coalition. In particular, your pensioners have supported you long enough, and now they have learned that you are primarily involved in your personal career and some of your friends or friends. I would also like to ask you where is the white book on the state of defense that you promised, but there is neither the spirit nor the hearing about it. However, the situation in this area is that we as citizens can be very ashamed. See what three Ministers of the Sharchev government had to leave their positions quickly, virtually without discussion, when they could not even show what they could do. But you don't think of anything like that, and I hear you're blackmailing your position by leaving the coalition. Every man is a substitute, including the minister. Minister, I have to admit, years ago, as a minister and politician, you enjoyed my respect. People loved you, too. They often laughed at your statements, but they also believed that you would do something for them. Then it became clear that at any cost you were holding up the position and that you were using your pensioners for your political career, doing relatively little. If that were not the case, we would have long-standing permanent care for the permanent disability and the establishment of a demographic fund, and pensions would not be shamefully low. Above all, it has proved repeatedly that you have no sense of responsibility. You have used this one of your only derogations due to garbage cans to prove your responsibility to birds in the branch, but you have become a typical Slovenian politician and official who holds the position at all costs. This makes you a very poor example for citizens, especially young Slovenes and Slovenes. However, so that I will not only speak in principle, let me make a few more specific points, namely the arbitration agreement. When journalists ask you, do you feel responsible for the affair with the arbitration agreement on the Slovenian-Croatian border, you make a fool of them and say: “Did I talk on the phone? Did they eavesdrop on me?” And so on. Minister Erjavec, have you really not heard of objective responsibility? Have you not heard or read dozens of cases where German, Scandinavian and other politicians and officials have resigned because of some 100 euro worth of purchases or because of misstatements in their statements? However, you indirectly allowed the border agreement to be compromised with the neighbouring country, which will also have lasting consequences for our country in addition to the high costs, even though you claim that there are no consequences. We can even talk about treason, which was not even so sanctioned, because we should make sure that all those who had anything to do with it leave the public service immediately. But you have shown several times that you have no sense of what is right, you have no responsibility, and therefore you have also become a morally questionable person and therefore you cannot be in the Slovenian government anymore. That's another thing. Misdirection of pensioners. Mr. Minister, do you know what makes you most famous among people besides garbage cans, washing machines and a permanent secretary who is obviously a multipractice like yourself? This is your statement that Slovenians and Slovenians will have a thousand euros in pensions. When will that be? We should have stepped down because of this statement. For you were in all governments, and before all the elections you promised to take care of the pensioners. Do you want to hear how you took care of them? Recently, about a month ago, an old lady who was all upset came to me in a letter in Krske. Without saying good-bye, she screamed from the threshold: “Tell me where Desus is!” I didn't understand her right away, so I offered her a chair to sit down and calm down. And she told me she was looking for someone from the Desus party whose boss had promised a thousand euros in pension. She said that for 30 years without interruption, she worked under difficult conditions in a painting factory, a furniture factory, until the companies were destroyed and sold out, and empty buildings are still on their own. She said she had EUR 400 in pension and that EUR 250 in salary for the bills, and now I would like to ask the gentlemen of Desus how to survive with 150 euros. At the same time, she said that there were immigrants in her block who were being paid everything by the state. She also told of non-employee gypsies, but the country's income is around €2,000 a month. She is even more concerned about where she will go when she is no longer able to take care of herself, because she will not be able to afford it at home in Croatia. She asked me what kind of country this country is, which, to a woman who voted for independence with all her heart, for 30 years of hard work, does not allow normal life, but allows a number of tycoons to steal, and no one even condemns them, let alone return something. She asked how she should not be sorry for her former country if she felt sicker in this singed independent Slovenia than many thugs. Mr. Erjavec, it's quite possible that you might say what I have to say with this, but believe me, I didn't make it up. She was looking for a gentleman from Desus. Perhaps the reason for your poor outcome in recent elections is that people consider you to be responsible for their position. They certainly did not forget how both you and Mrs Bratuškova have always stressed that you are committed to the interests of pensioners and to regulating the health situation, and they have both pushed it elsewhere, to other ministries – you to an army that is hardly worthy of this name, and Bratuškova to share hundreds of millions of valuable construction cakes with her sympathizers. Pensioners continue to wait in long lines for doctors and pay for too expensive medications to serve their intermediaries fatily. But you are always in governments that do nothing but promise to make things worse in health care and in homes for the elderly. Perhaps now a third, for a number of Members, there is unknown information in here. This year, in March, I attended the presentation of the book of memories of retired politics and diplomat Zvonet Dragan, entitled From Policy to Diplomacy in Krk. For those of you who do not know this, let me say that our cousin Zvone Dragan was among others Deputy Prime Minister of the former Yugoslavia and later Ambassador to China, the Czech Republic and Poland. He also participated in the establishment of a diplomatic network for a new country, Slovenia alone. It is certainly an experienced diplomat and a very respectable man with many knowledge throughout the world, especially in the economic field. In his discussion, Mr Dragan said that he had been with President Bush and also with Reagan several times during his career, so he knows how much influence the first lady and her team have on the President regardless of who he is or what he is. Unfortunately, we were not able to take advantage of this in the case of our cousin Melanie, which he believes this time is also the fault of our littleness and envy. Instead of lobbying, we muddled her and made fun of her. Do you know how proud our neighbours would be to the Croats, and what scene would they make for the first lady, and how they would praise her? We're not capable of doing this! But that wasn't a mistake that the Slovenians made when you were the Foreign Minister, Mr. Erjavec. In front of the full hall, Mr Dragan said that he had learned from reliable sources how foreign Minister Erjavac had been visited at least three times by the US Secretary of State, who is practically another person, and Minister Erjavec did not take advantage of this. Can you imagine, honourable Members and Members of Parliament? He didn't go to visit! It should also be asked why Mr Cerar, who is now working as an external minister to correct the mistakes, has allowed the Minister for all Erjavac’s departments to ignore the Americans. Mr Minister, because of all this and the long series of matters, you should immediately step down, and of course you will not do so because you do not know what is objective or what is subjective responsibility. And an answer to Comrade Reich. He's really funny when he says his client, SAB, is saving ministers. I don't know where I'm sitting! Their minister was blown away by the winds without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Franz Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u51	Thank you, Vice President. I just think, Vice-President, that you will have to take the appropriate action here in this debate, because Mr Ambassador Shisko has spoken personal things and spent some, I will say, nonsense. The only thing about the wiretap affair is how Viktor Erjavec didn't name Drennikov and didn't appoint Sekolec to this function that they did at the time. That's it. If we were to set up a demographic fund, which we very much miss not yet having, if we were to set it up, we would have established it a long time ago. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u52	Mr. Jurša, what is the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u53	I'll explain. I'll tell you in the end, Mr. Vice President. To talk about some personal matters here, and about the washing machine a thousand euros of pension Listen, a thousand euros of pension, I have told you ten times in this room, and I have certainly told this new composition three times – what did Mr Erjavec say? [[…]] So that I don't say what he said right now is the best thing for him to say. And let him say in front of everyone whether he's really been invited three times to interview the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Mr Vice-President, you should warn Mr Shisk that what he is saying is not an interpolation matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u54	Thank you. Dear Mr Jurša, the procedural issue is primarily about how you speak about the application of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't tell me the rules of procedure were broken or in any part. All that Mr Šiško said is a matter of debate. You have the opportunity to answer, and the Minister has the opportunity to answer. You have combined the debate, the replica and two questions of the procedural proposal. So I suggest you use the other tools you have at your disposal. Procedurally, Mr. Ambassador Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u55	Dear Vice President, thank you. It turned out again, as I said yesterday, that Minister Karl Erjavec has Prime Minister Franca Jurša because he gives answers instead of Mr Erjavac. But I said that he warned several times in years ago that the pensioners themselves would have a pension of 1,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u56	Mr Šiško, this was not a procedural question either. In order to avoid further misuse of the Rules of Procedure, I remind you that from now on we will act differently. Minister Karl Erjavec asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I didn't think I'd pick up, but I have to, because the public needs to be properly informed. I know Diplomatic Tink Dragan very well, and I don't believe I would say that. I'm going to ask him personally if that's true, because if I received the invitation of the Secretary of State of the United States three times for foreign affairs, believe me, I would visit him three times, with the greatest pleasure. But unfortunately there were no such invitations, for such and other reasons. As far as these famous thousands of euros are concerned. It's nice to have you back 15 years, but you obviously didn't read what I said back then. I said that if there was no transition, if there were no Taiwanese stories, if there were no savage privatisation, any pensioner working for 40 years, 35 years of age, could have at least a thousand euros in pension. I don't know – don't you want to? Because so many times you've all been attacking me around these thousands of euros. Wouldn't that be nice? Let's do this together! But it's not like you're going to deny me one statement that was very correct and very correct on the spot. But okay, I understand you're using this as an instrument for political accounting. But I suggest you send the lady who visited you to come to me. I'll have a conversation with her to see if she really holds everything you said. Because there was something I thought you pulled her by the hair. As for the washing machine, I have the right to privacy. This isn't about my washing machine. This washing machine is where it's supposed to be, in my hallway. So you won't have any problems. Or even the president of the SDS, who thought the dishwasher was there on the highway at Naklem. It wasn't a dishwasher, it was a washing machine. And interestingly enough, when it comes to Karl Erjavac, these personal matters are so interesting, even the washing machine you're interested in. I invite you, if there's anything else you want to know, on Sunday I make a day of open doors, come to Naklo, you can see what kind of washing machines we have, we have a dryer, we have, I think, three fans, I also have a very bad dog, I have roses in the garden, so if you're interested, I can show you a bug, and I can show you plates and glasses. You'll be able to take a look at the refrigerator if I eat healthy. You can check if I have enough wine bottles. We can make a deal. So we don't have these discussions all the time, what Karl Erjavec has and what he doesn't have. And the washing machine, this is really a top topic for state policy, a topic that needs to be addressed in the National Assembly. But of course, when there are no arguments, when there are no more grounds for certain claims that have been made at the interpretation, then let's go to the personal level. Let's go take a look at the glasses and the towels and the pants. That's what I can tell you. You'll be here on Sunday, you're very welcome, but you'll announce that I'll get everything ready. I'll take care of another good drink.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Janez Janša is not an interpreter, but you're the one who's answering the charges. You don't defend yourself like that when there's no argument, and you accuse someone else. Respect what you read to others, including yourself. Procedurally, Dušan Shiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u59	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Vice President, please alert the candidate for Minister. As arrogant as he is today, he acted at the hearing. And he's already laughing here because he's counted that twenty-five votes isn't enough. Now that the Left has gone, he knows he's going to be possessed. Because today's his birthday, he's waiting for him to go to that cake. Please warn him to at least respond properly. I was just mentioning what made him famous during this period. But I didn't let him keep the washing machine moving him down the hall, and it wasn't his hallway. I was just mentioning it. And please, Mr. Secretary, because maybe there'll be another opportunity, we'll be out there somewhere, and we'll be able to talk. As for Mr. Dragan, you can call him without a problem, indeed. I treated him with respect. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u60	Mr. Shisko, it's procedurally meant for me, not the Minister. And if you noticed, I warned him in at least one part, left the minister's answer. Anyone else want a procedural one? No, no, no. Then we move on, go back to the debate. There's a MEP with a word. Branko Grimes, she'll get Tina Hefferle's word after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The Slovenian Army is the pillar of statehood, the Slovenian Army is the one that defended us during the war for Slovenia. Then, under another name, she began her roots as the Manevre structure of national protection, but this tradition still lives today. The values of patriotism, I am sure, are those who are anchored once and for all in the army, and the army certainly deserves all respect. But he also deserves a proper minister. We've just seen how the defense minister's nerves have been released and debated in a way that, excuse me, is not worthy of a defence minister. But you can imagine that we are now being watched by all partner countries, by representatives of foreign armies, their attachés in Slovenia, ambassadors, and that they have seen what has now been here. At least what the Slovenian Army needs, what it deserves, has the right to do so, is to get a defence minister who won't let go of his nerves. But he also needs a reputation. I do not argue that the current Minister of Defence is the one who has helped the most that the Slovenian Army, unfortunately, has been under-funded during the last two mandates. But surely the current Minister of Defence is the one who lost the last trace of the reputation that the Slovenian Army had in international partners. With inadequate staffing, inadequate leadership, with wrong emphasis, with wrong public appearances. It just doesn't go any further. If I had a piece of state-of-the-art, Mr. Secretary of Defense Karl Erjavec would now take responsibility and leave on his own. Voting would not be necessary at all. I have no doubt about the information that has been circulating for the past two days – that you have agreed in the backstage to trade dirty within the government coalition to support a constitutional judge who does not even know it, at least according to his statements, that hate speech is not a legally defined concept at all and that, according to the judicatures of the Constitutional Court, this Constitutional Court in which he was elected, never, when it comes to the issue of human rights, should operate with such concepts that are not uniformly specified in legislation. Because it leads to abuse. And, of course, the use of some stretching terms means a grave violation of human rights, including the right to freedom of expression, as set out in Article 39 of the Slovenian Constitution. That was part of the deal. The second part of the agreement is that, of course, today it will be supported or made sure that there are not enough votes to resolve. For whoever abstains today has done exactly the same as has voted against the interpretation – because it takes 46 votes to resolve – that Mr Karl Erjavec will remain a defence minister. So this is not in the interest of the State of Slovenia. In the interest of the state of Slovenia, it would be in the interest of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the defence system as a whole, a minister who will be duly led by it, who will be properly represented, who will then, in his way of performing, devote all his knowledge to strengthening the Slovenian Army, which he certainly deserves as a pillar of statehood. As is now the case, ladies and gentlemen, there will be only a thousand soldiers left under this left-wing government who will receive the lowest pension of thousands of euros in the Slovenian Army. And that's the reality we're facing here today. And someone should take responsibility for such a situation. Look, just today, more than a hundred illegal migrants were intercepted in Italy at once. So much for this strong state and control of the Slovenian border. Instead of allowing the Slovenian Army to do its job to send it to protect the Slovenian border in sufficient numbers and, of course, with sufficient powers, everything else is done and Slovenia is not protected in the way it deserves it. However, with all responsibility, I claim that the Slovenian police and the Slovenian military would together be able to adequately protect the Slovenian border if this government and this ruling coalition actually enabled them to do so with all the means at their disposal and actually allow them to do so. The problem is therefore the issue of leadership, the question of reputation, the question of all that strengthens the Slovenian Army, which strengthens all that value core if you want, on which you have created a single Slovenia at all. In a few days, we will celebrate the anniversary of events that have forever marked our history. Will the Slovenian Army be adequately prepared then? I'm sure you don't. He's getting a negative assessment for a negative assessment. In addition, what could then turn everything into a negative transfer of the minister who signed something that was going on at Poček, and the next day, when someone raises a shout and screams, for political reasons, declares someone on duty to be the culprit and solves it. Do you have any idea what our partners abroad think about such things, and how do they feel about such a minister? And unfortunately, what do they think of such a country? Then this is a very serious problem. The credibility problem, which not only affects security and defence ability, but also has some impact on development. Because if one country is credible, then it is certainly also interesting for investment, for business cooperation, for entrepreneurship. If not, then such a country is plunged into something bad. Unfortunately, this government is destroying Slovenia in a developmental way, including through the way we have now witnessed it in the Ministry of Defence. All these are the reasons why this interpolation is not only justified but also necessary. And all of these are the reasons why, if the Minister were to be established today, he would now immediately accept responsibility and leave this city, this function he is performing, and he has resigned. And if the government as a whole were national, then I would have done what was best for Slovenia, and the entire government would have gone after the Defence Ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle has the word to prepare Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I'll start with the morning presentations. There and even now, in this debate, we have already heard a variety of indications as to how bad the Slovenian Army is, how bad the situation is, how different the general assessment of the Slovenian Army is, even though the interpretation speaks of all the other observations that would burden Minister Erjavac. Even the migrants were back on the wallpaper. Please, well, let's replace this mantra of yours, my fellows on the right and Mr Noblemeniti, because it is slowly, if ever comical, it is now becoming a little tragic or even burlesque for moments. What you're doing in this house just doesn't belong in the temple of democracy, at least I don't think so. With such maneuvers, you only undermine the reputation and credibility of the National Assembly. The curses of Mr Jelinčič during the presentation of the position are just another proof that some politicians in this love of Slovenia have fallen to the very bottom. I am very sorry, I am very ashamed that our citizens and citizens must listen. But as I've said many times in this house, I'm going to do it again, it's just a mirror of a speaker. So I'm sorry. If I go back to that little content that this interpolation offers us. When I listened to the proposalr's explanation, I was disturbed by a number of things. Above all, I am surprised that the proposaler is not aware of the significance of the statements, such as the fact that Chief General Staff has experienced a calm nervous breakdown. That's what the motioner said. You know, the Commissioner is not only Mrs Alenka Ermenc, but she is the Chief, Major General, and we cannot separate her health from the function she performs. Now, is this really some sort of protection of her integrity, as Mr Škerbinc has claimed, or is it some sort of security indicative phenomenon, as Mr Minister has said. I think it's the last one more than the first one. I really can't agree that it was just some simple, harmless rumors in this story. In fact, it was a harmful operation, for bad purposes and for the harassment of other members of the military. About the settlement. My colleague Jean Mahnic, I believe that if you spoke any rumors about your boss Janša, you would not be standing there today and would not have the honour of giving a further explanation of this interpretation as a proposaler. If you have so confidently stressed this alleged violation of the supposed written order, it has disturbed me that, for example, at the 4th urgent session of Knovs, you have invited only Mr Škerbinc, but not Minister Erjavac, by reasoning that you will question Mr Škerbinc about the circumstances and actions concerning Mr Erjavac. If this is not a bit absurd, how can anyone defend himself or respond to any of the eyewitnesses that he or she has been exposed to, if these findings are not directly presented to him? [[…]] Dear colleagues, if Knovs really likes to act like an investigative body or to judge, then also respect one basic principle that applies in a procedure where the courts and investigative authorities actually operate, and that is to say that the one who has something obvious to him is to be able to participate in this process, the whole process, first to be informed of the findings and then to respond directly to them. These principles should apply every time someone is exposed to something. And yes, although you later withdrew this level of secrecy and the Minister was able to see these statements and the testimony of Mr Škerbinc, this is not the same. This is not the same as if Mr Minister were directly there and could respond directly to the obvious. Maybe in this case we wouldn't even be here today. In short, this is what casts a shadow of doubt on the well-intentioned and transparent functioning of Knovs. And there's one more thing. I believe that the opposition's colleagues and colleagues are in great pain for the high support of the government, but respectable colleague Mahnic, if you have previously read the level and morals of Mr Sharpe, you have in fact questioned the level and morale of almost 60% of the Slovenes and Slovenes who support this government. When you run out of ammo, we hear about the unfortunate fence again, about the children in Catholic schools. And we heard two days ago that it wasn't Catholic schools, was it? In short, it's again some kind of permanent mode of operation. It is true that interpolation is a fully legitimate tool, and indeed in this reference today is the first interpolation, if we do not consider that infamous accusation by the President of the Government. But as Jerca said in our position, give, if you are already preparing these accusations and interpretations, the text to prepare more qualitatively. Because not only do you make a lot of investments, you also reduce the value of these institutions with some content. Today's interpolation isn't in place and it's nothing like it, and of course I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Mahnič asked for the floor. Jean-Mahnich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u65	Thank you. I hate to say it, but, colleague Hefferle, if you're talking to us, prepare a better interpretation, then I can tell you, prepare a better debate next time. I don't know, well, the Slovenian Army is bad at talking. This is said by the Slovenian Army itself, colleague of Heferle, in an annual report prepared by the military itself and presented by the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, Mr Borut Pahor. And that the interpretation talks about other things, and here we are talking about the state of the Slovenian Army, proves that you have not read the interpretations. Because in the fourth point, it spells out exactly what the situation is in the military, and what is the role of Defence Minister Karl Erjavec. And when you talk about what would be necessary – I really didn't see anywhere in the rules of procedure, but Knovs can make a confrontation of witnesses. And when you say that Minister Erjavac was not given an opportunity to respond to what Mr Škerbinc said, let me tell you when the opportunity was given to Mr Šerbinec to respond to all media harassment by Erjavc. Pop TV gave him this opportunity, and he was banned. I can tell you that I was really expecting, I said, "Here, now Tina's going to be talking, and she's even going to have a judicial exam, and she's finally going to tell me which articles of law we're explaining wrong, what's wrong, and I haven't even seen it. From practically the only person here I expected her to tell me. That's too bad, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Another replica, Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u67	At least I would expect a representative of the largest government party to understand how closely the issue of illegal migration and the importance of the Slovenian Armed Forces are linked. Because the security challenges facing the country today and, of course, before the Slovenian Army are different than they were a few years ago. What is the meaning of the Slovenian Army, it was beautiful to see at the beginning of that great migratory flow, when down at the southern border in the crowd there was everything that you could only imagine. The police, then the members of civil protection, the firefighters, all the others who were involved there, were littered with everything from glass to stone, anything that could have happened there. This took so long to bring in some armored Slovenian Army and out came the boys in combat uniforms. In a moment there was such a blissful peace that one could not believe how well everyone was disciplined. Why, then, is such an effect? Because illegal migrants, those coming from radical Islam, are in the eyes of the police because they have such experience in their field, in fact more of a symbol of corruption and inefficiency. But they know that when the army comes, but the matter is serious: they shall carry out their army, and they shall go. This is also evidence of how important it is that we take care of these acute, different security conditions in this pillar of state as it deserves. And that's what all the terms are for. I would remind you once again of those 500 and more metres of the long line of Slovenian boys who were waiting for them to volunteer for the defence of Slovenia during Slovenian independence. I firmly believe that this spirit of patriotism is still alive. It is only that we need a minister and a government that will also be able to organise, strengthen and ensure the security and well-being of Slovenia. Slovenia deserves it, the Slovenian Army deserves it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much. And a replica of Tina Hefferle to Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Vice President. My friend Jean Mahnic, I don't know if I'd thank you for appreciating my education or for judging that I'm the only one here who can assess which article of the law is being broken or not. I would just like to explain that I did not talk about the confrontation of the witnesses in Knovs, but I was talking about that you did not even invite the Minister to this meeting. The explanations given by President Knovs indicate that he was not invited to the meeting because further clarifications on the course of the operational action issued by the Minister are expected to be provided at this meeting. And that's why he didn't send the invitation to the minister. I see here no reason why Mr Minister could not then be present, not in the light of the witnesses' confrontation, but in the light of the arguments that have been made in Knovs. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposaler Jean Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u71	Just because the minister could hear the arguments and obviously respond to them today or not, you will judge it yourself, the magnetogram was also open. But we can't invite both of us to Knovs to give the words to Škerbin – well, in the back, Minister, tell us what is true and what is not. That would be a show, though closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Jani Möderndorfer has the word, and Alexander Reberšek is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Vice President. We've already heard something in our Parliament on interpolation. We've heard things like that and things like that. But one fact is indisputable — every interpolation is getting worse. I have to say that I am so disappointed today that I don't really know if I could say "interpellation" to this interpolation, but actually some kind of approximation or attempt when someone wants to learn something from their mentor, but actually they can't implement it and do it as they please. Used to be interpolation was really interpolation. The minister didn't really know if he was going to make it through. Not because he feels guilty or not guilty, but because, you know, the power of a word in a parliamentary investigation is sometimes just a matter of conviction. And then the arithmetic that the minister was talking about when we started counting is really starting. I will not forget Mr Bandl, who was convinced that this was actually just a ritual where the interpolation would take place and he would remain a minister. You won't believe it. He fell. And with great joy, with the voices of your own party. But today we have something that we're supposed to say after the procedure of interpolation, but it's everything else, just not that. Why? The arguments are incontrovertible, although the motioner repeatedly reiterates that it was not really necessary to close the public meeting and that we had not heard anything new. Colleague Dimic even said 90% – no, I think this was said by the proposer, 90% of everything has already been published. I'm sorry, but this is the first time I've heard one thing read by the minister at the closed session. You don't, that's true, because you're on Knovs and I'm on Knovs. My colleague is a member of Knovs, and she doesn't show me the papers, because it's the right thing to do. Today we have heard things that place on a completely different weight of your word, Comrade Mahnic. In fact, it turns out that you can manipulate Knovs perfectly, and this has been done in the past. You have a longer mandate and have been present several times in various mandates, you know that Knovs has been popular for a long time to go on unusual and fast unexpected visits to various police stations and have been checked if any of the Members in the forecasting process. Under the pretext of looking at other things. And that was a massive act. Celje, remember, and so on. I'm not talking about you, proposer. I'm talking about the past when you weren't even here. What's important is that we thought Knovs would only be left with these acts. No, over the years, the way has changed, the tools and this Knovs is being used more and more and more for overfreaks, I'm going to say, political maneuvers, with which in a cellophane curve, under the pretext that it's about controlling work on security and intelligence services, the bodies of repression, we're actually only doing what we want to do. And that is to show the Slovenian public how everything is wrong in this country and how someone is adhering to power. We all know Mr. Karl Erjavac. He has been in Slovenian governments for many years, and he has been minister of several ministries. Comrade Mahnič, if there's only one thing I can tell you, I'm not a member of his client and I'm not a fan, none of this, far from it, but I'll tell you something – don't even reach his ankles. You know why not? From one simple [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Don't brag about it being a thank God, you'll hear why. Because you're gonna need a few more miles. Mr. Karl Erjavec is frisky, pragmatic. He knows, he has filling, "pip feeling" would call it politics, when he does, when he doesn't, and if it's a bad quality, then you won't be in politics for a long time. But what is more important, I am sure that it will not work to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia. Because if we proved it today, and I waited for you to prove it today, because sometimes the SDS was considered to have brought at least the last day — well, you haven't been able to bring it up yet. If we proved that he crossed the border, as in Mr Weber's case, when he used intelligence for something else, not within the army, but he stepped across the border, believe me, if Mr Weber hadn't given up, I would definitely have voted in favour of his discharge in any case. [[…]] Definitely. Because in this case, such a person in this country has nothing left to look for, no matter where and what position he has in relation to the situation of the coalition itself. I do it every single time, because you're known to go on personal disqualifications every time you run out of arguments. You know, these methods of reading someone's car and the security guards so on -- let me remind you that it's because of these methods, or I'm going to tell these readings, Mr. Virant canceled the security service because he thought he was going to gain something on this. You know what he did? He only created extra costs because the guards had to follow him. Still, he was a protected person. So to tell someone that he wants to, that's just ridiculous. Come with arguments as to what he's done. Another thing that matters to me. You know, when various military representatives start to be friends with politicians in the way I've been listening here today, I'm starting to get very worried. You know why? Because first one does it, then two do it, then it becomes a practice, and then everybody does it. And now where is the border between the military and the civilian sphere? Excuse me, François Mitterrand – seven generals had only a few small remarks over his policy, and the next day they were all retired. No extraordinary meetings, no riots in France because of this, but they were only in the pension. The message was clear: You have nothing to discuss and discuss things that do not concern you. It is also important for the military to apply this hierarchy, which you know very well. For once the relationship between the hierarchy is broken, it is over. Then you know what happens. Why do we, as a society that advocates democratic procedures, insist that the military is in barracks? Because it's the only place she has in a time of peace. In the notes, we understand what this means at the barracks. And when this pyramid system within the army breaks down, all I can think of today is all these documents, testimonies, readings, texts, and so on, what really happened. Lord – because I don't even remember because for me how someone writes in the army, so irrelevant – Šerbin, I now imagine it, maybe it wasn't like because the highest place was called a woman, and he might have had the feeling that the moment and time had come that he should actually be there in this place. That's human, isn't it? People we're competitors, someone we're comfortable with or not In the military there's no room for that, I'm sorry. [[…]] I was so happy and proud to finally have a woman at the top of the army. I think my colleague Eva Irgle will surely confirm that she was pleased and proud of it. The thing that I object to, of course, is that, then, because you're unhappy because you haven't made any career progress, you're doing internal caves, you get involved in politics, and in the end, you don't realize that he's going to be thrown out of, I'm going to say, these stories are like a sinful goat, so that you use it to interpeel. He doesn't understand it at all. In two months, no one will talk about him again, but he will be seen to death as a person who has compromised in some procedure. Too bad, because maybe, I don't know him as a very good man, okay soldier and so on, but he fell for politics. Your trick, of course. And that's dangerous when we kidnap for our partisan or very personal interests of these organs. I won't forget what Knovs did in his previous term! He overstepped his powers, too. This is a problem because Knovs has become some kind of commission of inquiry that isn't at all, but he's the supervisory commission. We lost a compass here in the National Assembly! And no one's reacting. We are establishing a new parliamentary practice that is so right, and we are doing literally confusion in the whole area! You said yourself, buddy, I think Grims was, or I don't know who, I think even the proponents, whoever's already in this whole debate, you said they're watching us now and watching the third channel -- actually, because they don't need to beat each other anymore, but the dispatches are writing for that day and they're sending their home and saying, this country is still immature and unrealistic. I'm sorry, every time the debate on internal matters, as far as security policy is concerned, in a way that is open to you, is unworthy, immature and meaningless and self-destructive. I don't know, I'm not suicidal, like you say in this place, but I can't and can't understand it! To speak of the most imprisoned, I will say the most important – even if we have bad things to understand each other, they must remain closed at home and must be saved within ourselves – you say that everything that is closed, open, and the public must know everything. No, it's not! Where I'm weak, I'm not going to explain it to the whole world. Because tomorrow you'll be in power and tomorrow you'll have problems that you've done for yourself. But you're going to point out with your finger that someone else did it. Let us understand that power is fleeting, and it is not eternal, and sooner or later you will erase something that you are creating today. Minister – today is not a question of the Minister at all. Today you could be there instead of Karl Erjavac and someone else would be exactly the same. That's what I'm talking about. Did he make a mistake? Of course he did. He's done it a lot. It even cost him a ministerial position once. You say he didn't go – of course he went and how he went. And there were only buckets. There was no security problem. So, you know, today to talk about how unworthy this is, sorry, today is colleague Iva, I think, said that the Slovenian army is half barefoot. Excuse me. Please stop making these statements. I've never seen a soldier before! I haven't seen one yet. Let me bring him in to see you walk here and step on this Slovenia. But you don't say one, you say half an army! This isn't a joke! As long as my neighbor says that at the inn, I'm not touched by anything, but when the MP says it, it's a serious matter. And if this is broadcast on the third programme of Slovenian television, then everyone starts to say that we have a Slovenian army, which is half barefoot! Who else believes in this army? Then here you're talking about how proud you are of the army, how she defended Slovenia, and I don't know what else, but she's half barefoot. Today we have heard – not to offend my colleague Grims, but even if we were talking about birds, I would bring in migrants to have something with the birds together. Anytime you take this opportunity, it's his theme, the mantra of winter. We've all gotten used to it, the problem is that nobody hears it anymore, but it sounds terrible for those who listen to it for the first time because they don't understand what this has to do with migrant policy. And of course this is a serious problem, I would say one that only monitors this presentation. None of the observations given in the interpretation itself deserve serious discussion. Today it was, I think my colleague Tina mentioned here and said that it was difficult to have a serious debate or that there was no serious content and so on, in this context. And then colleague Mahnic replied back, yes, because you didn't even have a serious discussion. You know, it's hard to have a serious debate about something that isn't. First there must be something to be a serious debate. Comrade Mahnič, I really wish you many years left in the parliamentary benches, perhaps another political challenge that you can make for this loving country with which we boast. But it would be time for you to learn from your mentors how to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Mahnič asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u75	Thank you. Just two, three things, the rest doesn't make sense, because he didn't say anything that you can even say back to. I thought he was gonna tell me what I'm wrong about. He said I'm not going to discuss it, that's all without connection — you can say that in every marriage, every interpretation. By the way, Jani, I think you said at the last five interpolations, every interpolation is getting worse. So that's about the same as your election score. He's getting worse. He doesn't think the minister left on his own. No, no, no. Prime Minister Pahor proposed his resolution and then decided once in the middle of the debate, I am tired of it, I am not going any more, and he said “I am resigning”. Apparently, he found it more honorable than for Parliament to vote in favour of his discharge. But he wouldn't have gone alone if the Prime Minister hadn't proposed his release. Well, given what Janko Weber did, I'm sure if I had an interpolation, I wouldn't have supported it. Thus, the President of the Government put forward a proposal for his discharge, and you supported it. I don't know you for a long time. You said you've known Eryvka for a long time. We all know it's too frizzy. But, I'm sorry, I'd rather not be frisky than have citizens' opinions about me as much as they do about Mr. Erjavac. However, we know you too, your discussions and it is always the way it is. You talk all the way, but when I ask you what's not in there, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't hold anything. Differences between the job, between the person taking the job, the articles we mentioned. And then, since there's gonna be a replica, I'd really like to hear you see how Knovs works. What do you think Knovs can do? Can we only walk through orders to watch, or can we discuss only those quarterly financial reports sent to us by Sova and the ODS? What can Knovs do, anyway? Such discussions as you have only further encourage me to do everything necessary so that Owl will not be given additional powers, because we must not control anything, check nothing. In Germany they have a committee in Parliament called G10. If any of the German intelligence services wants to carry out covert investigative measures against their own citizens, do you know what happens there? First, the service will play a role in the ministry and then the ministry will play a role in this parliamentary commission. If the commission approves this, it can begin. If he doesn't approve, he can't. Members of this commission shall have access to all hearings, to all e-mails, to any tracking at any time, anywhere. Do you imagine that kind of control? And here you are having a problem when Knovs is conducting questions and discussions about whether or not there have been any violations. If you'd listened to the mags first. Tonino in a closed session, where he explained perfectly what Knovs' powers were, would then not be discussed in this direction. To empower intelligence services, while at the same time this control that is now, to trouble us only further strengthens us in the belief that Owl must not be given additional powers. And that is not true – what we are cleaning up here in Parliament. The sessions were public in the US Congress, the Senate, when they discussed Russian interference in the US presidential elections in 2016. Look at the way the judges are taking pictures of what they're talking about in public! But there's a different democratic tradition. Here you want to hide everything from the citizens, but where you can boast, you want to make things public on the big bell. From the magnetogram and also from what has been previously shown, it is clear, as Brigadier Škerbinc said, that he does not want the post of Chief of Staff, that he has repeatedly told the chief and repeatedly also told his members and members. I agree with you, the fact that the generals are criticising politics is questionable, but we are also criticising the generals here. You too — what can he say, what he does not say. And then I would also like to know the clear definition of when the general is a soldier and when he is not. That's what you say, you're defending the army, we have it in the public sector, which means that the general or the soldier is from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m., and then the matter ends and he can hang out with whoever he wants. Show me the rules, show me the law, where it's written down, who the citizen can hang out with, and who he can't hang out with. If I'm on a picnic somewhere there's either the director of Owl or some criminalist or some prosecutor, can I talk to him or should I leave this picnic? Do I need to avoid it, and how many meters do I need to avoid it? These are all questions based on your discussions. Because you're a problem with who you're hanging out with, who you're talking to. This is obviously a police state.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Replica, Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u77	My friend Mahnic misunderstood me, so I need to fix some things so he can understand me. That's the meaning of the replica. When I said exiled minister, politically exiled, I said in a positive way. The fact that you don't want to be exiled in a positive way is your decision, so I have nothing to do with it. The debate which I have now seen clear to me that I have not said anything – I do not intend to repeat what has already been said in the position of our Group of Members. Unlike a lot of MPs, including yours, I just don't repeat things. I say what I mean and what I'm getting ready for. The one who wanted to understand me understood me. For someone who doesn't understand me and doesn't hear me and will never hear me, but it doesn't matter what I say, I say what you want to hear, it's important that you communicate to your transmission, to the people, to those who listen to you, to what you want. You have your own agenda. These are indisputable facts. As far as the generals are concerned. It'll be very easy for me to conclude. The General also has his own private life, but he can never escape being a soldier in his heart. They have the right to vote, they can do everything other citizens do in life, but they remain soldiers. The one who understands it knows what and where the limit is, where it can go. This makes a soldier different from others in a positive, respected and appreciated sense. But when internal rivalry begins, it has nothing to do with the army itself, but with that ugly pay of human nature. If you understand, fine, if you don't, fine. Oh, and that! Report, if you have read my report from the previous mandate – I am in favour of increasing the powers. By the way. I see you haven't read the report. I even suggested that the next parliamentary assembly accept this, but under very clear conditions and very clear control.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Alexander Reberšek has the word, and Joseph Lenart is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! As far as I have been following today's debate, interpellation will probably not be voted out because the coalition protects its chairs, even though we know that the minister should have stepped down a long time ago. It's ironic how the entire coalition defends him, that he's a good minister, and that interpelation is groundless. The fact is – and you know it yourself – that Erjavec is crucial in the composition of the government, so you defend and defend it. That's exactly why it's the way it is. But this is another argument that the electoral system needs to be changed. I want to know how, the coalition, you tolerate the minister if he's in a frenzy — with the army, with the unions, with the ODS. So where are the ethical standards, honourable Members and Members? What is most in your eyes, Minister Erjavec, is that you have survived politically for so long, even though you are always in a foreign role and never guilty of anything. You have survived with 394 votes in the last elections, which were not enough for the seat of the Parliament, and more than apparently enough for the ministerial chair. In an 18-year political career, of which you are a 15-year-old minister, I do not recall any political success or ministerial achievement, but you have an extraordinary sense of political survival – from a chair to a chair, from a function – and you are a collector of political affairs and generous promises. Your promise of 1,000 euros of pension is 11 years old. Despite the participation of Desus in the government of pensions in the last decade, they have not increased by 100 euros, says 10 euros per year. In fact, during this period they had the income that Karl Erjavec earned as minister within two months. Today we have the lowest pension of EUR 218 from this promise, and you are still insisting. September will be one year from your appointment, and at this time our defence system is in a significantly worse state. We have a catastrophic situation in the human resources area, the Slovenian Army should have 7 000 600 members of the regular composition, and today it has less than 6 000 550. The same goes for the number of reserve members. Minister Erjavec speaks and performs a lot, but at the same time he has no solution for soldiers after 45 years of age. Due to Minister Erjavac, Slovenia will continue to be an unreliable ally who fails to meet its own commitments to buy armored 8x8. We play NATO allies with this kind of blight. We also play our citizens. The purchase of helicopters for helicopter emergency medical care has been a national priority for some time now, and again there is much talk about it and nothing is done. In addition to all of this, you are also overstepping your powers to replace the Brigadier. You train individuals without serious management experience, with lack of expertise, but with good personal knowledge. Human resources clearance, just that it's ours. Minister Leben resigned because, under the weight of the media and the piranha charges, he was unable to lead the department because the loss of confidence in the public was an obstacle to his work. Minister Bandelli resigned because of his e-mail and Ambassador Krajčič resigned because of the sandwich for principled and ethical reasons. But Minister Erjavec will never give up because he's never guilty of anything. It will not give up despite clear evidence of abuse of security and intelligence services, unjustifiable discharge of the Brigadier, a state of defeat in the Slovenian Army, a complete loss of confidence and employees in the MORS. And why won't he back down? Political mathematics – because Prime Minister Marjan Šarec simply cannot afford it. Without Karl Erjavac, Slovenian politics would no longer be what it is – a perfect travesty and caricature of itself. Allow me to describe in just a few words the situation I see today. Minister Karl Erjavec is like a driver of a car driving on a highway in the wrong direction and claims that only he drives correctly and everyone else is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The word is given by Joseph Lenart, followed by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A nice greeting to all present! Dear Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec! In your defense, you said that it was enough to replace the commander of the forces of the Slovenian Army or anyone else in a high position in the military because there is no more confidence. Now, I'm going to point out some recent events and facts that more than eloquently testify that you don't have any more confidence. You no longer have confidence from the soldiers, which is most important. You do not have confidence from voters, citizens, and even in the National Assembly, I believe that many people today have concerns, but they will press again on something that has been arranged for the caravan to move on. That's what I'm talking about at Hearing 5. 9. 2018 ensure that you go straight to the rescue, in action to eliminate human resources malnutrition. Since the oath of the government 13. 9. It has been nine months. Where are your results today? In my opinion, there were very few actions, solutions to these problems in the Slovenian Army, as well as inefficiency of those actions that were and for some that are still going on, we are also waiting for results. 19. 6. 2019 on the website of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia writes about a criminal charge against the Minister of Defence by the Unions of Soldiers of Slovenia. This is made for infringements of trade union rights, abuse of official status and unfair work at work. In fact, this union is a thorn in the Fifth Minister and it wants to abolish or abolish his funds. The union states: “With the conviction of the Unions of Soldiers of Slovenia in explanation of the cancellation of the contract of operation, the minister made himself a judge, and the union condemned the breach of the contract with the Ministry and the regulations.” Let's go back a little bit. Around the new year, the SVS or the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia reminds you, and we know that all of us who are also in the Defence Committee have warned you that the changes in those supplements are not right to bring an even greater conflict between soldiers, and have all the time also warned that progress is not as it should be. And the army loses its motivation. If you have a disgruntled soldier, how can you expect him never to say anything over the commander or through the minister? The SVS also tells you that the decision of the Government concerning the allocation of allowances in the military is not implemented as stated. By condemning the Union of Soldiers, you are actually continuing the story and the struggle with the union, of course all the changes you have announced, you will also make. Today, three quarters of a year after your role as Secretary of Defense, you still have an extremely large fluctuation. This means a half-greater outflow of soldiers than an inflow of soldiers. From this title, it will happen to us that in two years we will no longer have an army, not only that progress can be made, because you have no choice, and that the army would be better. Are you fulfilling your obligations as you assured us before you were confirmed as Minister? I don't think so. In the last six months, your military fluctuation has increased. So if every six months between 50 and 60 soldiers leave more than arrivals, where do we go? What else are we gonna have? Who will be commanded by the generals when the army is gone? From this title comes then, also, by the former Commissioner, it has been said that problems should be resolved globally and in the pay system and also in the system, I will tell the law not only in defence, but in common. What you said to exclude the army from the single wage system of the public sector did not happen again, of course. And where is this Mr. Geder today who was hoping to tell you that's not going to work? Unfortunately, somewhere in the back, in Maribor at some barracks. The expert, I'll say, and I think there's also a personality, a character that soldiers would follow without a problem in fighting. This, of course, leads us to have less than 60% of the completeness of the soldiers and 85% of the completeness of the officers. We are talking about the cost of the army, of course, and such a relationship does not go to the people's head, nor does it go to our soldiers. Well, in addition, Mr. Secretary, you're not successful. Are you fulfilling and at least trying to save this from the public sector? No, no, no. I think we said at some of the last sessions that he wasn't in the mood. I also believe that the State should not make promises to the Alliance that cannot be fulfilled. The MORS and, of course, the Minister are also responsible for failing to meet NATO obligations. I think we should do something different than we have done so far to get the results, because your actions so far have not brought them. I also believe that we have more open fronts, Mr Erjavec, which are not exactly in a manageable position. Maybe someone thinks we shouldn't talk too much about the fact that the situation in the military is bad, because we're working outside a signal to our neighbors that the country isn't good. But you still have a huge, resounding case about Commander and Brigadier Šerbintz, and this conflict has not yet ended, as we hear it. For this reason, I believe that we should in fact assume our objective responsibility, in some way, to make improvements in this army and to save it if I say domestically, that it will be in a few years without soldiers. Then you have to stop the already agreed purchase of eight-wheelers, delay the purchase of light armoured vehicles 4x4, non-furnishing. Your promise was to equip her. Then we have a third consecutive negative assessment of readiness. The last one is in your ministry. The Slovenian army is less prepared than it was last year. The assessment for action in peace fell well from an assessment to a sufficient level and for action in the war to a lack of success, which means that you were not successful again. And you, Mr Minister, also know, Commissioner, you know the Prime Minister of the Government and the Force Commander of the State, Mr Pahor. And what are you doing? You keep your eyes closed and you think you're going to keep going like this, but it's not actually state-of-the-art, because the politics that's created is taking care of your army. The fact that you are an expert and have been among these last three governments and in fact have an objective responsibility to what has happened before, how we exhaust this Slovenian army, are additional reasons that could be the reason for a person with ethical and moral qualities to say so himself to go. Aware of the fact that the Slovenian Army urgently needs a new staff. In fact, you also have on your websites, according to the Slovenian Armed Forces, this is a very pressing problem. So we're all aware of that. If anyone thinks that this information can't be obtained and that we're defiled by our army, that's not true. We don't care about our Slovenian army. Such generals as the brigade - one of them I met and I believe is a character - are actually running away from you. How will you replace this if good secretaries, good generals, good officers, good soldiers run away? I don't know how you'll keep trying to be successful. I don't know, maybe there are reasons for your inefficiencies elsewhere, but maybe they are in coalition parties, but in those who have gone out today, because they're always hand-in-hand straining you to respect the military. But if you start acting like a state-of-the-art politician, then you'll probably just walk away from that consciousness by yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The word is Lidija Divac Mirnik, and Robert Polnar is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! Today, we have heard many words — cynical, rude, unworthy. Mud and impudence are, in fact, incredible. Respect for younger ones and older ones than that some do not know in the National Assembly. Someone even wondered what a normal country was, and I think we should take this very seriously in this house or in this omizima. Is it that there is always and everywhere the mud of the Prime Minister, even the government, ministers, Members? I don't think this is a normal country. Is it normal for a country to be "incompetent" anyway? That everyone can speak, write, muddy, at every opportunity, without any responsibility or consequences?Oh, my God! I don't think that's right. Today we even heard a Member say that the Minister is a ridiculous laugher. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unworthy. That's not what you do. It's over. Pika, amen, would say my mother. I don't do this myself, I don't discuss it myself, and neither do my colleagues in LMŠ. Actually, I don't want to fit in at all. This is actually what you've been producing for years, a number of mandates. Probably because you're increasingly frustrated that you don't rule. Because, of course, that's the only thing you're really interested in. And this is actually the motive for us to be here today at this session, where we have been talking for hours about the character and work of Minister Karl Erjavac. Among other things, the proposaler stated: “The Chief of State Security is threatening national security, and you, Minister, have been lying for a long time now and you are damaging the reputation of minister.” End of story. That is why I am adding: this interpretation today is a public performance, for those voters who believe the applicants always believe, regardless of what they say, whether it is the truth or not. It doesn't matter. In fact, this debate, which is probably followed by the foreign public, where you are discussing the Slovenian Army, the Defence Minister, the whole system, is actually the most damaging to our country. Because the truth of this debate today is only and exclusively a performance for the public and politicisation of the Slovenian Army. But politics in the military, at least as far as I know, has nothing to look for. The minister said he trusted the chief's expertise. The chief proposed the discharge of Brigadier Šerbinc because he had lost her trust because he could no longer work with him and work successfully. It's so simple. Because he also has the right to make this exchange in his office. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are talking about the army, about the Slovenian Army, where there is order and discipline. As our German-speaking colleagues would say: “Ordnung und Disciplin.” At least that's how I imagine he's in the army. I've never been there. Where someone orders something, it's usually done by the boss, in this case the boss, and where soldiers, brigades, in short, all subordinates in some hierarchy, do it, do it without saying it, and it's a dot. In short, where the system is running. Or is the problem of "machots" possible in this matter? Is there a man who was hoping for a position, perhaps a problem with a woman taking this position? That the boss is a woman and that the boss is giving orders and that he, a man, has to obey them? Maybe I'm wrong, but maybe I'm not. But I know for a fact that you can't work well with those people who have lost your trust and those you don't understand. We could probably discuss the causes of this multi-hour debate today, and I will only conclude with this: I will not support interpolation because it is twisted out of the vine.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar has the word, and he has to prepare Bojan Podkoršek. First, the proposaler Jean Mahnic asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u85	Thank you. I, Mrs Divac Mirnik, have not seen one here who would say it is a problem because the army is run by a woman. I don't think that's a problem. You have highlighted this as a problem or that some see it as a problem. But I very much agree with you. And if that was what you said it would be, then there probably wouldn't be an interpolation. If the chief could get rid of him, because she doesn't trust him anymore. The Brigadier himself said: “If the chief had told me and if there had been an explanation that there was no more confidence, I would never have answered.” But that's how she said it was a rumor, and then things were different in the media. If, in accordance with the Staff Regulations of the Slovenian Army, they explained why the matter had taken place, there would be no problem. And something else you said, "Ordnung und Dissipln" – I agree. But here's the question is, is there anything that Škerbinc didn't take into account or did? No, no, no. He's been suspended because he did! He was suspended because, in accordance with what is itself the chief, the woman at the head of the Slovenian Army, found, fired in accordance with our guidelines, with our agreements and as ordered by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why. But I should have relieved him if I didn't obey the command. But it wasn't. No one would have bothered that. The Government Decision in the Zagreb Annex clearly states the “weapon system used: 120 mm”. The mandate to sign this concrete plan was given by the Defence Minister. In his name, he signed: «weapon system used: 120 mm». That's exactly what the shooting was all about. The operational commander, as we learned earlier, was not the Minister, he was not the Brigadier Škerbinc, but the Brigadier Zakrošek. That's why he had to leave. But we were both able to monitor ourselves in the media, and you'll probably agree that we've heard different explanations. From shooting to talking, to proposing, there was a lack of confidence then, for the last time. But there was no mistrust at all. If there was any mistrust, then no one would have bothered. But since it is, I think, clear to everyone, a system like the military, if the chief is at the top and if he has a right hand that is not trusted for such or other reasons, it is logical that he cannot work with it and that it is necessary to replace it. But because this process was not followed, because there was no such explanation and given the known facts, all we had decided to do was file this interpretation, which I still claim was prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the Constitution and also in accordance with how the interpretation must be made. We did not write it ourselves, we have professional assistance, we have lawyers, as Mr Jelinčič said, from the Faculty of Edward Kardel University in Ljubljana, so obviously those lawyers from this same university know less than lawyers from this same university who work for you. So now you're divorcing lawyers, even though they come from the same college that's better and worse. But on your part you tell us that for us all that is from you is not good, not capable – you do the same. You're doing the same thing. You know, Mrs Divac Mirnik, between us, go watch the vote, how many times have I voted in favour of the laws of the government, how many times have I pushed the quorum for the laws of the government, how many times have you pressed for or quorum in our proposals? And I know you guys, and I believe that we'd press for a lot of times, but no. That's the difference between us. I vote as I think it is right, and you vote as they say.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Minister Karl Erjavec asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. If I had correctly understood Mr Mahnić's Commissioner, if the Force Commander had received an exact response from the Chief of Staff, that he would no longer be trusted, then there would be no further problem. But listen, what's the logic here? Just the fact that she proposed a solution means that there is no more trust. I wouldn't have proposed a solution if I trusted him. What a contradiction you're falling for again. And what kind of soldier is it to condition that the Chief of Staff has to tell him, I don't trust you anymore? It's as if the proposal for a solution doesn't say that. With regard to this permanent topic, that I signed the mandate to sign the 2019 exercise plan on the participation of the Slovenian Army and the United States of America, and there in one annex it is also mentioned that they will have a 120 mm calibre with them. That document doesn't say anything about shooting with it, it doesn't say where they're going to shoot, when and so on. And by this logic of yours, you are probably aware that at the time of the exercise we have, it concludes, I think, right now, on June 21st, or these days, also the American patriots — does this mean that we should shoot with them? [[…]] And they had them with them, but look, no government decision, no plan for the implementation of the Slovenian Army exercises in 2019 foresees shooting with patriots. As well as does not provide for the Government's conclusion for the Eagle exercises to be fired with a calibre greater than 60 mm. And now you're constantly pushing: there was a 120 mm calibre. We had patriots here in Slovenia! I hope you don't regret that they didn't shoot! I think it's a good thing they didn't. Because military exercises are not only shooting, they are also capacity shifts. I say, however, I very much like the fact that you acknowledge that the Commander of the Force Command would immediately make a decision within himself on discharge if only the Chief of General Staff said one word: "Listen, Commander of the Force Commander Škerbinc, I no longer trust you." And then we wouldn't have any interpolation, there wouldn't be this political storm today. But listen, Mr. Member, Mr. Mahnic, don't you think that the proposal for self-delivery is already telling you everything? He says the chief doesn't trust him anymore. That's why she made it, and that's why she suggested it to me! And if I continue to accept this proposal, what would that mean? That the Secretary of Defense doesn't trust the Chief of Staff. That's why your fairy tales, how one word would magically change everything, don't hold you back from a sober judgment. Remember, however, that on 17 May, Commissioner General Staff decided to initiate appropriate procedures for slander. In order for this to happen, we can all be sure of that at a closed meeting of the National Assembly. That he spoke ill of the medical condition of Chief General Staff. So I really don't understand this logic of yours, just one magic word from the Chief of Staff to tell the Commander of the Force, Brigadier Šerbinec, I don't trust her anymore – look, we wouldn't be wasting 14 hours here today to discuss. Perhaps if there will ever be any relief, because life is running, brings such and different stories, I will recommend to the Commissioner that, for the second time in the interview, she tell you if she proposes to release someone from the command structure to add "because I don't trust you anymore". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. First of all, he's got the word "proposer" because he signed up early. Jean-Mahnich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Minister, don't put words in my mouth, thank God the Magnography of the hearing of the Šerbinec is public and that's where Šerbinc himself said it. I didn't make that up. It's an open case. Sam said how to handle this case. Anex. Mr Minister, let me tell you what "weapon system used" means. If you speak English, what does "weapon system used" mean? This is said to be the weapon system used. And it says 120 mm here. It's sitting down. U-s-e-d, saddled. Used. And that's the point, Mr. Secretary. Let me just tell you what it was like with assault rifles. Are they always written in there? Aren't they written? So if they're not written, they can shoot with them, if they're written, can't, or what's it like? Is every thing always written? Since it says, "weapon system used," so to speak, weapons systems to be used, 120 mm, Mortar – mortar. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much. As in your custom [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Minister Karl Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u92	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm fast, no matter my age, you see I'm still fast. It's actually like you said, but it's only the first half. It says that these weapons systems are in use – even 120 mm. But tell me where this document says 120 mm will be shot by the Eagle. Tell me that. That might be a problem, but that's not what it says. However, the decision of the Government, prepared and signed by Alan Geder, then the Chief of Staff, was very clear, which was in November 2018 and confirmed by the Chief of Staff. At the time, Brigadier Šerbinc was chief of staff. This proposal addressed the Government, adopted on 24 January 2019. When the government confirmed this, we received this decision from the Ministry of Defence, which was put at the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, which he sent forward to the Force Command. And by chance the Commander of the Force Command was once again Brigadier Šerbinc – how was he not aware of this? Why was this not taken into account in the Eagle exercise? When you mention that 30-year report. 3. Commissioner General Staff, however, is not a report on the specific exercises of Sokol (Eagle), but is a report on activities generally at the Poček Central Training Centre. So you won't get an analysis of what's going on in the Falcon, but you can do your best. This will also be explained to you by Commissioner General Staff, on the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. Because, as I know, that hearing is still going on. She'll explain it to you by military, professionally, if this explanation is not enough for you. The government's decision is sacred to both the US military and the Slovenian army. The power to sign the plan of cooperation with the US and Slovenian armies, which Colonel Rode and Colonel Zakrošek had, has not yet given them the right to fire. Believe it or not, if it were written in there that 120 mm will be fired at a specific hawk exercise (Eagle), the colonel, who are experts, would surely say: “120 mm can not be because this is the conclusion of the government”. Yes, I know you don't understand, because this is very complicated, so it is good that you will have the opportunity on the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission to explain this to you in detail. But Colonel Rode can also explain to you, and Colonel Zakrošek, what is the weight of this document, because obviously only you don't understand it. But I understand because you're not a military person. After all, you've been doing college in defense, as I've been told, but apparently you haven't acquired those skills there. You're probably gonna have to take a little more time to get your hands on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. First of all, before I give my word to the motioner, I would warn the minister that he is respectful of the Members who are discussing. So that any insults in a specific sense and such as you have said are neither necessary nor desirable. Proposer Jean Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u94	Pierre's message from the Ministry of Defence that on the 26th and 27th nights he will be shot with heavy calibres – what is this, Minister? The Pearce Service informed the public that these two days at night would be fired at heavy calibres. What's up with that? The pharaohs don't know anything either, do they? Don't they have military knowledge? Yeah, it looks like the lawyers have it. But, Mr. Minister, pear duty, 26th, 27th, you've got, everywhere you go, shooting with heavy calibers by 3:00 in the morning. And it is not true, as you said, that in the Commissioner's report, there is nothing in this document about this particular military exercise. He writes: “Even in the case of the Sokol exercise, planning, coordination and information took place, and last but not least, the implementation of the Poček exercise in accordance with the agreement, guidelines and plans given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence. We did not violate any normative provisions by means of the method of implementation.” Please, what about the pierre message when your job said it would be fired at night with heavy calibers? And one more thing I'd like to hear is that I really don't understand - how is it possible to use a mortar so it works without shooting it? I really don't get it. How can you use a mortar like it says here without shooting it? And I'm asking for a message from the pear because apparently they knew at your house they were going to shoot at night, and you're saying that the government's decision was violated. If the pierre knew if the others knew, why didn't you stop it right away? Because it was signed with your authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Minister Karl Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'll look into why such a message was given from the pierre of the service. I don't have this answer right now, but I'm telling you that this message was not in line with the Minister of Defence's guidelines and not in line with the Government's decision. Of course, one pierre’s message cannot relieve the responsibility to fire 120 mm at the time. I'll look into it. About the use of weapons. It only says that these weapons will be presented there, but it doesn't say that they will be used. Because if it were to be used, it would say "weapons to be used". It's not like that. Because by this logic, we should also be shooting patriots.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I have also seen your application for the replica, but, Mrs Mirnik, I suggest that we finish this first, but we will not interrupt the substantive mix of matters. Proposer Jean Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u98	Mr Minister, if it were as you say, then it would be "weapon system present", not "weapon system used". That's the difference. And, you know, it's not just a pir message for these two days, it's an annual program. [[advertising from the hall]] It's a summer program. It's a summer program. So it's said that your pioneer service has given the wrong message for the entire year, how will it be fired? Who do you believe now? Will the pear work be replaced, or will you just say, yes, that's what the pear job did? So you don't know what's happening to you in your own department. If the minister and the pianists aren't in line, how do we know if you mean what's right, or does the pierre mean what's right? How can people imagine what is really true?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Now, I apologize to Ambassador Lidija Dijak Mirnik, who has the floor for a replica of one of the previous debates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I need to replicate my colleague Jean Mahnič in the part where he said there was a difference between us. It's absolutely, Comrade Mahnic. Very large – I will also list where everything is. I am not profaning, I am not rude, I am respectful of older people, I respect the Minister's Institute, whoever holds this position, I respect the Prime Minister's Institute, whoever holds this position, I do not write bad words on Facebook, I do not produce tone and tone and tone of words on Twitter, and I do not malign your President, I have never in my life, even out of respect for this, because for so many and so many years and so many years, I have done the work he does. That's the difference between us. And about the fact that at this point or as soon as I finished my discussion, I received another anonymous letter — and I'm not accusing you of sending it — I'm not doing it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Robert Polnar has the word, after which he will receive the word Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u102	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The military and police are undoubtedly the most dangerous state institution because they are armed and legally empowered to use force. Any democratic regime with particular attention prescribes the military's limits of powers, detailed standards of restrictions on their use and has rules and institutions that control and limit military force. Military control is exercised through various institutions, through the Supreme Commander's Institute, through the Civil Defence Minister's Institute and through parliamentary supervisory committees. In the democracies of Western Europe and North America in the last century, attempts to abuse the military or military coup have not been recorded. Clearly, there were tensions and struggles for social power between political and military peaks. In recent history, perhaps the most well-known case is the confrontation between the work of the French army and the then President de Gaul immediately after the decolonisation of Algeria. But democratic institutions have always endured such trials and have demonstrated that they can successfully resist the political ambitions of military oligarchies and are able to force the military to obey and belong to the system. People can be satisfied or not with such achievements, but if we look at the matter in a broader historical context, we can say that civilisation has made historic progress in limiting military power and will. Although freedom and everyday life are relatively protected in Western Europe, or more specifically in the European Union, the country with its repressive apparatus has remained potentially the greatest threat to individual freedom. Slovenia is in this area, like many others, something quite special, of its own. We have an army, but such species that only with the use of extreme imagination can we foresee that it is capable of endangering the democratic institutions of the country. The idea that the Slovenian Army would have ambitions and the ability to perform a coup is similar to that of the Pentagon being pro-Iranian. The absence of democratic control over the military has once had tragic consequences. Wars, mass killings, suffering. Today, in our Slovenian case, the presence of democratic control over the military has devastating consequences for its existence. The specificity of the Slovenian situation also dictates the original methods and priorities in parliamentary control of the armed forces. That is why we are dealing today with topics in the context of the interpretation against the Minister of Defence, which are crucial to the country's defence potential. The first of these four topics is the answer to the question whether or not the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence acted in accordance with the first or second paragraph of Article 32 of the Defence Act. She checked what someone had told anyone if he had told him anything and how others interpreted it and, above all, whom he interpreted, investigating rumors, exploring unartified speech as a cornerstone of the national defence strategy. The second of the issues of crucial importance for the defence capacity of the State is the answer to the question whether the discharge of the Commander of the Force has been lawfully or not. The Commander of the Force Command has the highest rank of officer. So he's an officer. The root of the word suggests that it is a profession whose core essence is honor. The honor, ladies and gentlemen, is unknowable and untouchable, elusive and mysterious. Honor is a personal virtue and a basic priceless ethical trait if its questionable owner has not already lost. It is markedly undetectable, so it is possible and it happens that the dishonorable judge its existence. A trained professional soldier can only talk to himself about the army, not the dilettants. The army is founded on hierarchy and co-ordination. It's ordered in the army, and in the army, the orders are obeyed. Otherwise, it's not an army. The third of the issues of crucial importance for the country's defence potency is clearly a dispute over who has exceeded or exceeded the powers of military exercise. Something in the life of any army as organized as it is everyday. And the fourth is a crucial issue for the defence potency of the Slovenian state. These are the opposition's valuable judgments on the ethical and working habitat of the current Minister of Defence. If these valuable judgments may sometimes be in conflict with the facts, they are so much worse for the facts. This is, of course, something else – from month to month a stronger frustration due to inability to convert the election outcome into a parliamentary majority, which is becoming or should become an integral part of Slovenian defence doctrine. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past ten years since 2000 it has been pecking. There were a lot of them that were pecking. They've been pecking on the budget of the Ministry of Defence. In 2010, expenditure on the budget amounting to EUR 552 million was realised. In 2014, only four financial years later, 340 million euros were realised. This is said to be 40% less than the Slovenian state has dedicated four years to its own defence. The average taxpayer citizen can really ask what is wrong with us as a nation. Are we really not worth the shadow we're leaving behind? Today's situation is a little better. In 2018, 435 million were realised, 503 million were provided in this year's budget balance, but this is still much less than in 2010. Significantly more visual, significantly more indicative is the expenditure item that talks about equipping the Slovenian Army with equipment and its modernisation. In 2011, up to and including 2017, in the seven fiscal years, the Slovenian State allocated 68 million euros for military equipment and its modernisation. For example, in 2017 there was a record low €4.4 million. This is about as much as one small congregation is dedicated to the construction of a large water supply. In the whole year for equipment and modernisation of the Slovenian Army. In 2018 and 2019 these two values are completely different: EUR 37 million. Meanwhile, the military became an insular, poorly organized employer. Professionals are leaving, soldiers, deputies and officers will flee. They will become anything because military professionals want an honorable profession, a profession that pays off and pays off in particular. Members of the military force are looking for an existential meaning, but no chance of finding it. For them, the defense of the country is a worthless chat of power, an authority that does not know that the homeland is defended primarily by defence of the military profession, a profession that is almost gone. There's no system to provide safety to professional soldiers. High officers are completely indifferent to the fate of, say, a young lieutenant or a deputy who has nothing to live on. They leave the army every day. All of this is due to poor financial conditions, non-professionalism and demeaning working conditions. After the mass departure of military professionals, the renaissance of amateurisation is announced as an alternative, saying re-introduction of the military deadline. The idea is perfect, but not for the growth of something called combat readiness. Yes, Mr Mahnic, we are also people who think a little differently from the established flow. All I have just mentioned is putting on a minister who has only been doing his job for the last nine months, that is, ladies and gentlemen, too vaguely a comfortable logic of proposers to be taken seriously by anyone else. We have a problem in Slovenia because there is no way we can achieve a share in the gross domestic product according to NATO standards, which is intended to finance the defence. The aim is to raise this to 1.5% of gross domestic product by 2024. This is in view of the EUR 689 million achieved in 2018, ladies and gentlemen. And if we subtract 503 million from this, as planned for this year's realisation, the difference is about 185 million euros. And it would be necessary to raise the defence costs if they were to establish the situation in the Slovenian Army as seriously as possible. And here, you see, there's a significant difference. The issue of the Slovenian Army is not a very precise understanding of compliance with the provisions, but is an essential problem in how to secure its funding. And here will be the point where we will have to rediscover the way to talk about change, how to imagine a materially different arrangement, but without dangerous demagogic speech. In distinguishing between achievable objectives and unchangeable assets, we need to cut ourselves out better than our predecessors in the past ten years. And, ladies and gentlemen, the country's institutions should remain open to the opposite labour force of political change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Podkoršek and Blaž Pavlin is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly, for your word. Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps I will continue there – and we are not agreed – where Mr Polnar has finished. That we have to be better than those last ten years. If we put on the agenda of the National Assembly, which is most important to the ministry of many in this country, it would probably be difficult to find common agreement, but the Ministry of Defence, which we are talking about today, as well as internal affairs, where the security of our citizens and citizens is, in my personal opinion, purely at the top. As a member of the Parliament of the Parliament myself, I have signed a signature for this interpretation. My colleague on my left was repeatedly told today that there might still be too young for some sentences or words. But I have to say my own personal opinion, I have to commend him, because I'm a little older, because this interpolation has been prepared professionally and at a high level. We could probably find out if we were going to analyze all of his sentences, maybe some of them to change it. But this is what the efforts have been made to benefit the Slovenian Army. Mr Polnar, if I am allowed to mention him again, has made an effort, especially as Chairman of the Committee on Finance, for many numbers that are certainly on the ground and sitting. Dear Minister, in ten years we have reduced the budget for the military or for your ministry by 42%. When I contributed this signature, which I mentioned earlier, and when I was preparing for this interpretation, I thought of some actions not as your name but as a politician, a statesman. Dear Minister, all coalition contracts have been signed by you in ten years. Everything. Since 2008, you have been a signatory to all these coalition treaties. And, of course, you sat with the heads of government, your colleagues in the government, and you watched directly how it was shrinking for the army. I may understand during the period of crisis that some percentages have decreased, but today it is difficult to understand you when we find that in the Republic of Slovenia there are fewer than 100 soldiers a day — every day — and that in the last government, 2014–2018 you lost – you were sitting in the government – for a battalion of Slovenian soldiers. That's about 400 soldiers in one term. And you were sitting in the government. This morning, you said in your statement that there were many irregularities in the procurement of eight-wheelers, and this was prepared by your colleague, with whom they sat together in the previous government, sitting together in this government. When we talk about the Slovenian soldier when we talk about Slovenian security – I must say that I am the first member of the Defence Committee in this term – I must admit that I am repeatedly embarrassed. Not because there would be something wrong with President Bevk, but because we listen to everything on this committee, especially on the left hand side. But Mr. Secretary, you're responsible for the Left doing this. You consciously went when you knew the problems in the Slovenian Army, to sign a coalition contract, of course part of which is the Levica, which is a super-coalist party. And I think we will both agree that when we go with the Defence Committee, I repeat, not by the fault of the chairman of this committee, we are embarrassed or embarrassed when we go home. Or when they're watching us on TV, what's going on there. The same Levica, who destroys every branch on the committee for the benefit of the Ministry of Defence, as a result of the Slovenian Army, said today that she would not vote in favour of this interpretation. Dear Minister, with the facts that we have heard today through the presentation of colleague Mahnič, when we have listened to the views of the parliamentary groups and when we are doing the ultrasound of the Slovenian defence in the last ten years, I must say – this is my personal opinion, you have been there all along, you have contributed signatures to the coalition contracts – that you are no longer fit for this function. You are inappropriate because this is bad for the Ministry of Defence, because this is bad for the soldiers who are proud to do this work, and for those who are still doing it, because this is bad for the Republic of Slovenia. I personally have nothing against you, but when I look at these results in recent years, the results of the last period of this new government, which will soon blow out the first candle, of course you can no longer enjoy the support of my colleagues, as well as the wider Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has Blaž Pavlin, only Bevk is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u106	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Interpellation is a normal institution that is used in democracy to draw attention to certain problems in society or to the problems individual within the government. On my part, there is no personal objection to the Minister, but in the light of all the facts cited in the interpretation, it is right that we also discuss it in this national assembly. If a political regulation were to apply in Slovenia and the President of the Government had all the same criteria, this debate should not have taken place at all. After all that is publicly known, the Minister should have resigned himself if not, and should have been dismissed by the Prime Minister himself. But nothing happened. Minister Karl Erjavec is or will survive politically again. And not because he would be so capable, so cunning or unmistakable, but because, like all the affairs associated with him, the President of the Government simply needs him for his survival. However, in the last parliamentary elections, the honourable Minister gave you a clear signal – that is enough. And here I mean not your personal score, but your client's score. If I'm not mistaken, you cut him in half and the political consequences did not. The President of the party Desus is in the history of Slovenian politics the minister who marked each mandate with the most affairs in his ministry led by him. Let me remind you. When he was first Minister of Defence, he signed a contract with Patrio, which eventually made it null and void, while Slovenia had 30 very poorly equipped eight-wheelers. At the Ministry of Environment and Space at the time of the Pahor government, according to the Court of Auditors, it did not address the identified deficiencies in waste collection. He resigned only after the President of the Government proposed his discharge to the National Assembly. In his previous term as Minister of Foreign Affairs, with a given interview on local television, he threatened the arbitration procedure concerning the border with Croatia, because of the indecisiveness of Prime Minister Mir Cerar, he survived the interpretation, although he should have said good-bye to the Ministry's leadership by then. President Desusa is also in the current government again, and he is defending it, and again there are many affairs in this ministry that weaken the role of the ministry and the ministry is not acting in the direction of strengthening the defence capacity of the Slovenian Army. The main observation to Minister Erjavac, according to NSI, is the catastrophic staffing situation in the Slovenian Army, as well as the interruption of the Slovenian Army's equipment processes. In addition, there is also an obvious reason why every defence minister in a democratic country should immediately withdraw – the abuse of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence for political accounts with senior Slovenian military officers. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 34 of the Defence Act, the ombudspersons who perform security tasks at the Ministry of Defence shall have the powers laid down by law for the police only where they prevent, detect and investigate offences in the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Army. They may also use all available powers of the Police under the Criminal Procedure Act, under the third paragraph of the Article cited, including covert investigative measures and certain procedural powers enshrined in the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. For the use of other security tasks, such as detection, investigation and prevention of threats to the safety of certain persons, jobs, facilities and environments, OCS staff have no legal basis for the use of police powers. In a specific case, ODS officials held talks with senior Slovenian military officers, as instructed by the Minister, without having a legal basis for this at the time of the hearing, without a criminal complaint enabling them to do so. They suspended the working process in the Slovenian Army and interrogated the officers without having voluntarily agreed to do so. This is something such as the Director General of Police would order a hearing of a criminal police officer for rumors allegedly spread about her by the Director of the Crime Service. The ODS is not an institution to verify rumors through the military. And what will happen today? Probably nothing, because the members of the government coalition will support the minister just because he is the president of one of the coalition parties. However, together with Prime Minister Marjan Šarc and Levico, you will take responsibility for the poor management of the Ministry and the poor situation in the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I like to hear how full I am of an affair. It's true, every term is an affair. It's always caused by the opposition. Let's go in one order. When I first became Minister of Defence, 2004-2008, it was the first affair that I illegally came from a business trip from Paris to Slovenia. For three months, the minister came to Slovenia illegally. After three months, the authorities found that everything was fine. Then there was Patria, and I had been in heavy LDS attacks for four years, in the government of Yanshev, where all sorts were recorded. I was in court, and I got a report on my job as an undergraduate. I was forgiven for my hard work and my responsibility. You probably don't suspect that there was anything wrong with Patrio, that there was any corruption. You may know more about this side. But I was forgiven because I was working responsibly and carefully. Then came those unfortunate buckets, when the Court of Auditors for the first time in Slovenian history proposed that the Minister of Environment and Space should be resolved due to some cases relating to cantata. And I just gave up. But the buckets are still, today, after ten years, out of order. But why? Because we were a key member of the government. Back then, there was a referendum on pension reform, and Desus was against it. Why? Because we knew what pension reform meant. No one's ever given anything. She's always taken it. And that's why I had to be demolished. Because I was against pension reform. Then came the government of Mira Cerar – the interpolation. Who's gonna give it to her? New Slovenia. It's an eavesdropper affair. I'm hearing from your president that I'm a prisoner of Croatian intelligence, that I've cooked this wire affair myself. Then we have Dr. Scolcer's interrogation, which makes it very clear that he called himself and he's sorry that he did. And it was an interpolation, but of course an empty, unsuccessful one. Today, similar to today, we have another interpolation. Why? Because, as you say, because Karl Erjavec is not the target, the goal is the President of the Government. And then even in the debate, someone from the opposition says, we're helping you remove the bad ministers. Until we reach the President of the Government, then you will achieve your goal. You're helping, let's get these bad ministers removed. Even today, this interpolation will not be successful because it has no basis because the Intelligence Service has not been abused. The government's conclusions regarding the shooting at Poček were also very clear. And of course, if you're such a tough politician, then you're involved in your history of constantly meeting with some affairs that have no concrete result. I understand, however, that the President of the party, who is always important for the government to be established, needs to be abolished. Because if you bring me down, then sooner or later, the government of Marian Sarca will fall. Because that's exactly what happened at Pahor's. When he suggested that I resign for a bucket, I told him, look, and one year your government will be gone. And he didn't believe it, and that's what happened. What is the purpose of this interpolation today? Not if the Intelligence Service was abused. Look, if it was, if it was a crime, you should have accused me, you should have been detained by now. Do you know what it is when the Minister abuses Intelligence? But we are talking at the level of interpretation of the regulations, whether the Minister had this right to direct the work of the Security Intelligence when it comes to security activities within the defence system. And you'll be disappointed again. Why? Because we've tried to overthrow the minister three times, four times in different governments, but this Karl Erjavec is some kind of phenomenon, he can't be demolished. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, thank you very much. Yeah, obviously, look, this interpolation isn't going to work today either. Why? Because all these affairs are made up. These interpolations have no basis. It's just a naked political goal, if we bring down Karl Eryavec, then we're on a horse. Then there will be early elections, soon there will be a new government. So there's no big philosophy here, you know. That's why the affairs you're talking about, "this man is an affair on two legs," I read the last time, it seems to me that in the Fire Report or wherever, normally. [[…]] Normal. Because it is necessary to overthrow Karl Erjavac and then open the way for early elections or for a new government. Interesting – how were you very pleased at the time with the work of the Minister of Defence in the 2004-2008 mandate? [[advertising from the hall]] Ask the president of the then government, he was extremely pleased. Ask those colleagues who were in that government, Members. In 2012, even your President proposed me as Foreign Minister, and you find me completely incompetent. I don't know why he suggested me then. But the moment Janez Janša's government fell, I was no longer a good foreign minister. But look, it's politics. Politics is a skill, politics is a trade. I understand, you're just doing a simple craftsmanship work, you've given the interview today, and you've hoped that there will be nine votes from the Left, and maybe someone else from the National Community, and then you'd go on vacation and early elections. But look, this story is not gonna happen to you. At least not because of Karl Erjavc. So that you can prepare some more interpolation, the story will repeat itself. Because when I really make a mistake, abuse the law or abuse my authority, I will resign. You don't have to call me. But in this case, look, it's none of this. So don't expect or not all the time, talk all day about how good and ethical it would be for Karl Erjavec to give up on himself. Yes, I believe that would be very comfortable for you. We'd be looking forward to vacations and elections in the fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposaler Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u110	Thank you. Well, I have to say no. It just doesn't hold. Because if we wanted the government to fall, then we'd have to interpret the government and not the minister of Erjavac. Now it is good that he said this, for what message did he send? Government, it's me; without me there's no Desus, without me there's no government, all of you together without me you can't do anything. This is a message just sent by Karl Erjavec. And one more thing. Not only does it matter who the Foreign Minister or the Defence Minister is, in defence, we know that they are important assets. If the Minister of Defence does not have a financial minister who has a hearing that knows that it is necessary to invest in this system – the previous mandate, say Andrej Katič, had no support either for Mateja Vraničar Erman or Dušan Marble, Karl Erjavec was fortunate to have had a financial minister who opened the tent of defense 2004-2008. That was Dr. Andrey Bajuk. And if there's no Prime Minister who gives direction where to invest, then the Minister can't do anything. At the time, Prime Minister Janša invested in the defense. Prime Minister Cerar, unfortunately, did not invest. And believe me, Mr. Minister, your journeys to Russia began when the government of Alenka Bratušek arrived and then the government of Mir Cerar. For it is also up to the President of the Government and the Government's own direction that foreign policy is governed by the Foreign Minister. And believe me, if the other Yanshe government were still there, you, even if you were with Janša's foreign minister, wouldn't have gone to Moscow 13 times, and never to Washington.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u112	So that the public can be properly informed. I haven't been to Moscow 13 times. I've been to Moscow six times. As President of the Mixed Economic Cooperation Commission. The Slovenian economy has a billion-and-a-half-dollar business cooperation with Russia, and I hope you are defending jobs. Six times in six years and eight months as long as I was the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I was twice, once with the President of the State, who is forced to be accompanied by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and once when the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, I was appointed by the Government to go to this ceremony. However, let me be very clear: I have not had an official visit to Moscow for almost seven years to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Everything was linked to a mixed economic commission. I have to say this because of the economists.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word to prepare for Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! With this unnecessary interpretation you have deprived me of the top sports event in Idrija, as you could lively follow the end of the third stage of the cycling race after Slovenia with a goal in Idrija this afternoon. Otherwise, this is my 26th interpolation, and only one was voted. This is against Interior Minister Mirk Bandlje, 2 November 1998. While the two ministers resigned during the proceedings, inter alia, against Minister Turk, the whole government fell. But there has been no more absurd and unnecessary interpretation. Perhaps only interpretation against Minister Anjo Kopač Mrak is unnecessary. The political attack on the President of the Coalition Party and the Minister of State-Friendly Resor is therefore a school case of abuse of the interpolation instrument for narrow and very selfish political interests. As I have already said, you have turned Knovs into an investigative commission on the work of Minister Erjavac, which is unacceptable and goes beyond the work of this commission. In addition, you have caused additional damage to the Slovenian Army and the wider defence system with this interpolation – and this is clear – and the credibility of Slovenia in relation to foreign partners and in the international space has also been initiated. Interpellation also hampers the work of the state administration. Ministers and State secretaries could do something more useful than sit in the National Assembly all day and listen to this unnecessary debate. The entire MORS leadership could be involved in the development of the defence system, but it has to deal with interpolation since its submission on 10 May this year. So it's an empty state administration, instead of dealing with development plans. As I have said on behalf of the Group of the Social Democrats, we will not vote in our Group against the proposed decision and the interpretation against the Minister of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u116	Thank you. As far as this cycling race is concerned, Mr Bevk, you can take a vacation and go see a bike race or you are there as a member, write an official absence, no one is defending it. As far as ministers and secretaries of state are concerned, as far as I know, they're sitting here voluntarily, otherwise we'd all be here. Ministers sit here voluntarily. This means only one thing — that they have no other work to do. That they don't have another job! And believe me, it's much better to sit here than to work on the ministries to the detriment of the state. That the interpolation wasn't justified? We're the ones who justified the interpellation, and you didn't tell us why. And you know, Mr Bevk, you are the president of the Defence Committee – I do not think you have earned your allowance yet, because the Defence Committee has not yet distributed any matters on your proposal, about any problems in the military, about nothing. Nothing. And one more thing, because you're talking about political culture. Do you know what the political culture is like in Germany? Former members of the East German Intelligence Service cannot be Members. I once said I was going to ask you, and I think I'm going to take this opportunity right now. Since the Internet has appeared several times and I have never heard your answer or your denial, I wonder if it holds information that you were a member of the State Security Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Of course, I can't take a vacation to go to a bike race in Idria, but I'd love to see it live. I'm sorry with this unnecessary interpretation you've made this impossible. However, with regard to the fact that I would be a member of the intelligence service, let me say that I accurately wrote about this in my book The Scriptures from the parliamentary seat of 108 in 2003. Come to my office, I'll give you a copy of the book so you can read it live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič has the word to prepare Jerca Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must say that I have been here all day in Parliament, and I have heard some really interesting, some very frank and also some very clear arguments that suggest that this interpretation was absolutely necessary. From the Minister – too bad he's not here now, he's probably gone to some kind of need, it's nothing wrong, it's normal, logical – I've heard he's a good minister. That minister who brags about himself, pff, you know, he's got a little weight. You know that saying I don't have to say? Such a minister who has to boast on his own — his value is very low. He also talked about his weight today. Look, if the Prime Minister were here today, I'd say Minister Erjavec has some weight. But he's not here. All day. No matter where he went, whether he went abroad or anywhere. But if it were as Mr Erjavec said, today, the President of the Government would be here and I would give him, if not another, moral support. And he's not here. You ever wonder why? There are options, and you can cancel a foreign policy story if someone – as someone has heard today – has heard that we are overthrowing the government of Marjan Šarc and that Karl Erjavec is only the first step towards overthrowing the government of Marjan Šarc. And I'll tell you something else. Believe me, I've been talking to a lot of MPs, including coalitions. And if there was a secret vote today, Karl Erjavec would fly away like a match from this House! He was never in that position again. Never again, that's what I'm telling you. But the circumstances are such that, at all costs, Karl Erjavac must be kept because he obviously has such a good influence on members of Desus that otherwise they would probably choose to do as they should. That's one thing. Now, a few words about our giant Karl Erjavc. Do you know what he's after? All for the government, for whatever it takes, was led by Karl Erjavac. All he cares about is his chair, his personal interests, and so on. To talk about how he is capable, what capacity he has, what qualities, what results he has achieved in his political career – one colleague from New Slovenia today said very clearly, so I don't have to repeat it. I just can't believe I've never met a man like Karl Erjavec in my life. Superman! This is a man who knows everything, knows everything, can take any position, but leaves problems everywhere. I'll figure out a few problems below. My colleague Jean Mahnic today has really excellent, professionally, with the appropriate arguments and with the evidence argued interpellation. So I do not intend to repeat this what colleague Jan Mahnic said today, and also some colleagues from my parliamentary group, from New Slovenia, from the SNS and so on. But there's something I can say for Mr. Karl Erjavac, and that's what holds it together. At least with two arguments, I'll try to back this up. For me, Mr. Karl Erjavec is a master of deception, master of manipulation and lies. And he's also, in my personal opinion, I'm talking about my personal evaluation, a first-class plotter, otherwise he wouldn't be in that position anymore. Four times a minister, he's been changing four parties, and what I think is most important to people to know – he ran for the National Assembly in the last state elections, and do you know how much he won? A little over 300 votes. It's a disgraceful result! I received more votes than Karl Erjavec received in his entire constituency in the municipality of Šentilj, in one local community. And, my dears, is this the minister, that's the potential? We talk about people like that! Four-year-old politicians run this country! It's a disaster of shame. And such a man, Mr. Karl Erjavec, is here sending us a mind. 360 votes or how many he got when he ran for the National Assembly. And he wasn't elected as a member of Parliament – yeah, and now he's a superman for the minister?Oh, my God! Holy Mary, where do we live? Dear Mr Erjavec, I have said this before, wherever you have been, there have been other problems. According to my personal assessment, you have introduced foreign policy, environmental policy and, of course, the Slovenian Army. And of course, many times I ask the question, and I wonder what the pensioners have from you, except that they have low pensions. You've been saying all along that you're the party that's fighting for the pensioners. Look, today half the pensioners are below the poverty line. This is your story you made for Slovenian pensioners. What does Slovenia have from you, Minister Erjavec? You know what he's got? The lowest reputation for foreign policy in the history of Slovenia! Dear Mr. Erjavec, what does the Slovenian Army have to do with you? System failure. So it would be best for Slovenia, for this country, for this nation to say good-bye as soon as possible. Say good-bye as soon as possible. If you have not been elected as a Member, if you have received only 300 votes more than or 360, then it is clear that you cannot be any power, any person who could lead a credible policy in this position as Minister. You didn't run it, you don't run it, you're doing very badly, you're not able to run the defense system. No, that's proven because the system is falling apart. Now, Minister Erjavec, I'm going to read you a few sentences from what Dr. Balažic wrote about you. I think it's a good idea to say this to the Slovenian public. “At the same time, this man has no particular problem tearing down and forming coalitions, while bringing only bizarre characters that are operational zeros into the government. Because of all this, this party and this political cartoon will never bring any political added value, just stupidity, blockade and destabilisation. Worse still, his human rights policy and his meddling with the Russians are at best nonsense and at worst a disaster. Karl Erjavec also guarantees that there is no reform, since the main reform bar is in every government. In addition, Erjavec introduced and legitimized the dangerous precedent by hand, namely the deformation of the coalition contract into a political agreement with monetary claims for his clientele. This points to the successful kidnapping of the country to citizens and, of course, to systemic corruption." That's what Dr. Balažic wrote. Dear Minister, I have listened before, and in the closed and open session where I was present today, it was a surprise that I was very surprised, because of what I am about to say, we should have stepped down a long time ago immediately. Today it was said here, I heard there were two ODS reports here. One thing I listened to from your side, and then another, one of the Members, says that this does not hold true, that the report was designed for interpretation and that you presented this report here today. Mr Minister, if any of the ministers are allowed to organise an ODS report, then we have nothing to consider, then he must leave this position immediately. Now! No dilemma, no discussion. And second thing, Mr. Secretary, this is my opinion, I'm sure you have launched a politically motivated structure to remove Brigadier Škerbinc. And, Mr. Secretary, you tried to seduce it the way you thought it would be right that no one would notice it and it would go well quietly past – but what happened? You're entangled in your own spider web. For the first time in a long time you have fallen into your own network, which is unacceptable, irresponsible, and that is why you should leave your position. And one more thing when we touch the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army, as I said, is practically decomposing. You're incompetent, incompetent leadership, and those people sitting around you, you don't know how to do your story to bring the Slovenian Army to some point. You have a government, you have money, you have everything, you have a coalition that can at any time in the budget suggest I don't know what, and you can save the Slovenian Army in this direction so that it can function normally, function normally, and you didn't do it, you didn't do it. With this economic growth, with this economic growth, because we have positive economic growth – how long have we had this and where is the Slovenian Army? I am also sure that the core of the Slovenian Army is healthy. The enthusiasm and patriotism of soldiers and soldiers is now the only driver of the survival of the Slovenian Army. Therefore, we must not allow its decommissioning to continue. The problem is in the value system of the ruling people, so you cannot solve the problems of the Slovenian Armed Forces with a variety of candy of EUR 100 and so on. I'm afraid that's not your goal. So, top of the iceberg. Minister Erjavec, because of the lies, deceptions, abuses and conscious breakdown of the Slovenian Armed Forces system, we should leave this situation unconditionally and leave Slovenian politics, according to my personal assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Minister Karl Erjavec has the floor. Here you go. You won't? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u122	No, I don't have anything to add. I think the debate said everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Jerca Korče's turn to prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u124	Minister, you took the words out of my mouth. In fact, this debate in front of me has shown exactly what is happening today, one whole comedy and a flood of some very absurd and flat-rate statements, which are a matter of personal perception, as you look at Karl Erjavac. I'll be right back. I also spent some time in the office today, and every time I listened and heard the proposer, it seemed to me that my computer might have picked up a little bit and that it jumped back for two hours because it kept repeating the same things. All the time. There are no new facts. I sincerely expected them because they taught me about it to some older political cats, that the opposition would usually write the interpretation, but then at the session itself, when the interpretation is, it comes with something new, with some facts that they say here and make really boom. But you obviously can't do that either. Of course you're not capable because there's no meat and blood in the back here that you want so badly and you're looking for three weeks and more. I am sure that you have begun preparing the ground for this much earlier, and I admit that even at the first few sessions of Knovs I may have been naive to some extent, that Knovs really is about to see whether the defence and security system or intelligence services have done everything that would not have been the affairs that were with the Croats and those of the listeners. But it has shown very quickly what your real face is and that there are some sincere intentions for such things not to happen again in our country in the future, and that everything is different. Very quickly it also turned out that the target is the one and only one, and this is Karl Erjavec. And when you finished your arbitration, you went to Mr. Škerbinc and so on. The question is, where will this path lead, because your goal is clear? I'll be right back. My colleague Mahnic has mentioned me in his discussions many times, including about who wrote me opinions. I write them all by myself, all my fellow Members know that, and all my professional colleagues know how nice it is to work with such an article, because they have no work with it, because it writes their own views. And, colleague Mahnic, unlike you, I don't need authorization. If you need to be authorized for every action you have and for your word by a great leader, there are no such practices in our List of Marjan Sharca. We operate in a normal democratic way and are united people who really think the same. However, I strongly doubt that you are always following the same goal in your Group of Members, but it is all in the public interest of someone else who gives you guidance and guidance. But I can be wrong. So much for that. And when you're out of arguments, get on with your family, your personal affairs, and so on. I don't have a problem with that. My skin is extremely hard. I've done a lot of things in my life, and politics is some field that I've put myself into through a series of coincidences, and it seemed important to me that young people contribute something to this country to contribute to that generation that built this country, and that we are thinking about the generations that are coming after us. But I didn't come into this policy because of some of my interests and because I couldn't do anything else in my life. So I don't see any serious problems when we're gone tomorrow. You will, because you've been frozen and eternal since this country existed. Before I was born, you were already here, but it's all our fault. We, who are here for a year, also Minister Erjavec is under this government for a year, the Minister of Defence must have come into some state that he did not foresee. But we can ask ourselves why it happened. And yes, my friend Mahnic, I'll tell you this too, my grandmother was the director of SDK, so you won't be looking too hard, my other grandmother was the housekeeper at home and helped out at the farm. So if you have any questions about my family and other family members, I'll be very happy if you turn to me to discredit my father and my mother. Because I don't get involved in your personal affairs. And believe me, I also have some footage, some photos, some information. But unlike you, I can put where the boundaries are in life and where I won't go beyond those limits, even if I'm talking about my political opponent or someone I don't like personally. There are boundaries. And here we run into this circle where we're different. The borders also exist when a senior officer of the Slovenian Armed Forces — not in any context, not for any purpose, wrong questions — spoke of the Chief of Health in any context. And here's the dot. Motivation speech by a senior Slovenian army officer can be anything else. And I can hardly imagine where this army went if a senior officer of the Slovenian Army was talking about whether she had a nervous breakdown or not, what the Fire Report said, who wrote the texts, who didn't write the texts. I mean, can I make a moment of silence? [[…]] Because it's absurd! It's absurd in itself. And a reference to the legal basis. You've been a doctor today from law and interpretation, which is what we have competent courts for. We've got them. We have legal experts responsible for this. This isn't me and this isn't you. The decision you're calling for me to confirm on Knovs is a reflection of the fact that he was prepared completely unprofessionally, without legal basis, without the facts that we've also come to know later. You referred to Article 32, the first delivery, which means you've already formulated it legally. And why do we have an ODS? Why do we have an ODS if it's not just to make sure that he's checking the barracks to see what's going on? Not just because of the chief and not because of Mr Škerbinc, he's there to check what condition he's in, what's going on. And when he realized that, I had also said that someone speaking through a superior in the military, which is a hierarchical organization, could limit me to some internal coup within the army. Yes, you can. That is why we have the ODS – that it also detects such things, reports these things to its superiors, that such things are prevented. And this is also the protection of the Chief's post, and not that interpretation you're talking about. This is job protection. Because when an internal impact occurs, there is no longer a chief post because a system has collapsed. Yeah, that could be my interpretation, but I think it's a lot more accurate, and there's a lot more to it than that. Knovs. If we have no other wiser job in this country to play by Knovs, which has an important role — once again, I say — the parliamentary oversight of security and intelligence services is important. [[…]] At the time of digitisation, wiretaps and everything else we deal with Karl Erjavac. I'm sorry. President Tonin also let me down. Because before entering this hall, I truly appreciated him and considered him to be a constructive, discreet man. Even if he wants to show it on the outside, sadly, his actions show otherwise. Words are one thing, but acts are another. Comrade Mahnič, you can be a top rhetoric, and, of course, since you've been educated since the start, it hasn't been for us, but you know, being a top rhetorical doesn't mean you're right. And you're wrong here. Today we've lost 10 hours, 14 hours, whatever, to something below the level, below the normal level. Once again, this government will leave. Every government has left, every minister has left. The main problem that I have with this interpretation and what we are doing is that this country will remain and that some of the practices that are being introduced are harmful. That's the problem. That's the key problem. It is not a key issue for me whether Marjan Sarec will still be President of the Government, whether Karl Erjavec will still be Minister, the problem is that this country, I hope, will continue to exist here for the next century and generations will follow us. We have an arbitration that you have also compromised to a certain extent, in my personal opinion. Because to mix some things back up, again in the wrong way, is a laugh to the Croats. That's what you do! You do this and you don't care what you do because you don't care what happens to this country in 10 years, in 20 years. You want to know where you are today, how many minutes you have on TV and whether Karl Erjavec is still Minister or not, whether Marjan Sarec is President of the Government or not. It's right that you object because you're an opposition, but let's have some boundaries! Place yourself within the frameworks, set some moral standards, at all levels, at the levels of how you deal with certain systems, how you use Knovs, and yes, how you personally discredit individuals. And how Christian it is to leave the family alone if not the other. Me, Comrade Mahnič, you're muddling me whenever you want. But set your limits. I'll never go to your level. I also received a letter about Brigadier Šerbinec, but also because of respect for him, because I appreciate him because he had a career, let's face it, he had a career, I didn't give these things to the media, I didn't publish them on any portal, and I didn't abuse them in any way. Because I'm setting boundaries. But when the borders go away, we have what we have. Thank you. [[applause in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u126	Thank you. According to the performance, this dramatic contribution I do not believe you are not being taught rhetoric because the rhetorical performance was well performed. You said you wrote your own opinions so you didn't know who wrote them to me. Mrs. Korce, colleague of Jerca, I don't know if you've noticed, but I always speak out of my mind. I don't read positions. Which means I don't write them to myself or me or anyone else doesn't write them to me. About what I said earlier, the person I mentioned. I've worked with this person for quite some time, he's been with us, he's with us, now he's with you, I know his language, and believe me, everything that Marjan Sarec says through SDS, these are his words, these are his columns and so on. Of course, I'm talking about those political dinosaurs. When we talk about what kind of client we are, what kind of client you are – I will stay here, but it's a shame that the country doesn't hear, and it's a shame that Darius Krajčič can't tell us what happened to him that weekend when he said on Friday that he might not give up as a Member on Monday. It would be very nice if he told him what was happening to him this weekend by such a democratic party of LMSH, where there is no boss and where no one is pressured. My colleague, Jerca, as far as family is concerned, I absolutely agree. But if we have a billion-dollar money laundering at the New Ljubljana Bank, and if your mother was involved, it was exposed before you came into politics, because she was the head of the international payment transport sector, that is the real person who was involved in this matter. It's just that it's by chance your mother, but is that why she can't tell you now? Was she there or wasn't she? Of course she was! Well, if there was a billion-dollar wash at the New Ljubljana Bank, we should not expose it, is it saying that she was the head of the international payment transport sector? You said, "The cellar that I confirmed was unprofessional." How can you confirm an unprofessional conclusion? Once you confirm a non-professional decision, the second time you'll confirm an unprofessional law, you're already more than one, once unconstitutional. Above all, it is very difficult for me to wait for the police to close the case first, and then if the case goes to court, so is what she proposed to prosecute the chief, such as what Škerbinc proposed for prosecution. I agree. Then we can see. However, these words of yours are virtually identical to those of the previous mandate of the 36 SMC Members, and now look at how they are diluted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Before I get to the very content of the interpretation, all I can do is listen to what I myself find very difficult to hear in this national assembly. All that SDS proposes is bad, we can't write interpretation, you, the government coalition, and in one year you didn't bring one normal or strong law into the National Assembly that would actually do anything good in this country. Not just one marriage. And more than that, you yourself have admitted that the government must write you amendments. So please don't go into the Slovenian Democratic Party's substantive proposals, which we are preparing alone with a few colleagues, but you have the whole apparatus, and you can't use it. When I talk about interpolation, I'd like to start something like that. Dear Minister, where is your moral or ethical standard? I'll be right here with my colleagues from SD. Where's your collegiality, fellow SD? Look what Minister Erjavec is doing to protect himself, with your colleague, today's Minister of Justice, in his previous term as Minister of Defence. Did you listen to what he was doing to her today? Today he said she broke the law when she bought her bikes 8x8. On my question, respected why he had abolished the addition to the Slovenian Army, he stated that she had violated the law. When I asked him if he was accusing her, he wouldn't answer me. And he should have, because in public and out loud, he said that the supplement that was given in the time of Minister Katičeva was illegal. So the funds from the budget went illegally, respected. Now tell me what's true. Is there an appeal, Minister, but is it only politically proper for you? Because I expect from you, who say you are very responsible, that you will, of course, file this criminal complaint. Because that's not a joke. However, it is the use of budgetary resources. I will talk mainly about the fourth point of the interpolation, because I believe that the points were previously very well exposed and reasoned by my colleague, Jana Mahnič, and last but not least there was no answer. There were no specific irregularities, no specific infringements of the answers. It wasn't. There were different crowds, the show closed, so people would think what we'd find out, and we didn't know anything. Dear citizens and citizens, we have learned nothing new in there. Facts remain that were known in an open session. Let's see the difference. The Supreme Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Borut Pahor, said on the day of the Slovenian Armed Forces: “It continues with too little equipment and weapons, with general conditions for work, and finally all this and other influences purely human relations.” This was said by the distinguished Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces on their holiday. So, let me know if that's what the Supreme Commander of the Slovenian Army says, but does this Minister do well? Is this minister doing well? He's not doing well. Unlike the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Minister also gave a speech. Let's not forget, the minister is a political function. Do you know what the minister said? On the occasion of the meeting with Brigadier Šerbinec, on the day of the Slovenian Army, his speech is addressed to Brigadier Šerbinc. He points out that he will not allow the politicisation of the Slovenian Army. The politician says he won't allow politicization. What are you doing?Oh, my God! Does that mean he'll be politicized by anything that won't think the same way you do? I know you have hard skin, but, you know, everything in this country is not allowed. You're not allowed. Now, once again, I will confirm with the facts what I have told you in my oral parliamentary question. You're a destroyer of the Slovenian Army. You! And look at the human resources policy you're going to. I'll remind you of the time of Minister Katič and Prime Minister Cerar. At that time, it was found that the battalion fighting group, which was formed in the 72nd Slovenian Army Brigade, was not adequately prepared according to NATO standards or standards. Prime Minister Cerar said: “If there has been a negative assessment, it is not a problem of the staffing improvement or the equipment of the unit,” this is not a problem, “the negative assessment of the verification relates to preparation, management and command.” Once again, to command and command. At that time, this unit was led by a Brigadier Franz Korachin. She received a negative assessment and around 700 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were identified as inadequately prepared. And look at the fraction, someone else had to come in, so the unit eventually got a positive assessment. He had to be replaced, and someone else came to get a proper assessment. You know what Karl Erjavec does that protects the Slovenian Army and he wants the Slovenian Army not only to be perfected, but to be more appropriate to act well? France Step 30. 4. appoints the Deputy Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces. It is said that someone who has not been able to prepare the previously mentioned unit so far as to receive a positive assessment, he appoints a deputy commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces. On the other hand, we're only dealing with a brigade of Šerbinians because of course they're protecting themselves. I don't know anything about bombs, hoodies, anything else. I don't need to know that. But there's something I don't understand, Minister. If it was clear in these matters if Brigadier Škerbinc had all the instructions, then why did you feel the need to issue mandatory directions on the limitation of night shootings with a calibre of over 60 mm? Why did you need a post-festum to issue such a direction, if everything was clear and everything was known, only Brigadier Šerbinac was not present? Unnecessary direction, isn't it, Minister? But of course it's not. Let me tell you where our Slovenian army fell. You all know this well-known Falcone plane. For this one of ours, I'll say, an iron bird, for the storage or garage care of the Slovenian Army. Do you know that this plane, when parked in Brunika, is not parked according to safety standards? We are no longer able to ensure this in Slovenia – that one iron bird is stored as it should be. If there was an alarm, the Slovenian Army could not enter that area at all. Can you imagine the bizarre thing about the system itself? We're no longer capable of that either. Minister, when I asked you to step down because you read the Slovenian Army to shoot the Postojnčany, on your own citizens when you hurt them and devalued them, you answered me here in public, no, I don't want to apologize for not having anything to do. Look at your double morale, now in your response to the interpolation, when you didn't know what was going to happen, at least not with your colleagues from the Left, and yet your pants shook a little bit, you wrote down that you're sorry. Ah, run, come on! It is said that you apologize only if necessary. How can you still be a minister, respectable, Minister of the Slovenian Army, who works for a real change who doesn't know where she's going to work after 45 years. Those guys and the girls don't know! When you change chiefs like that overnight, they bring you home a post office without a meeting, no explanation, you know what the other unit commanders are asking today? When it's my turn, what's waiting for me when I get home? No explanation, no meeting. What levels are these, respectable? Is that a level?Oh, my God! Is that how someone gets rid of them so they don't even know why? Aren't there so many of you in your pants?Oh, my God! And all of you, Your Honor, work for 700, 800 euros. They all go on missions abroad, and they're not home for half a year and they're hurting them and their families, they're working. But what the Minister allows himself to do is to sort out his commanders, you know, and that triggered an additional reptiles, not of indignation, but of fear. He sows fear in the Slovenian army because they do not know when the intelligence will come, because they do not know when someone will get another written message that he has been replaced, without explanation. It's fear. And you tell us that we are spreading fear and that we are causing the degradation of the Slovenian Army! See what you can afford. See what you can afford. I'm gonna end up here, but really, some people are worse than cats, they always fall on all fours. But one day in this country, Minister Erjavec, it will turn. And yes, you're destroying the Slovenian Army, but I think you're deliberately destroying it, not because you wouldn't know things.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor Perič, to prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of the Government, representatives of the Government, after all, Minister! I came to this interpretation without any expectations, I didn't overly rely on all those media records, and I didn't even judge from where some medium belongs and where I wanted to bring it. I wanted to create a genuine opinion today and an attitude that was supposed to be as unburdened as possible, primarily based on the materials that we received. I have to say that I have been monitoring the process of this interpretation of these, we have now been here for 10 hours and 13 minutes, if I have calculated correctly, and instead of somehow stepping up this rhythm to add new and new arguments, I find that these arguments are becoming increasingly scarce and we are increasingly repeating ourselves and becoming almost boring in some way, which is certainly not good. Of course, who am I to judge, because as a new Member, I do not have this historical memory, as some people may have, who are currently in this room, who have long been part of our political floor and can easily assess it. However, I do have one experience with the constitutional accusation of President of the Government, which was not the most successful, and was not at all successful, and it was substantively justified, as it was. So I'll say so. We have some instruments that the Constitution allows us to do, and I think it would be very good for all of us to use with the salt of the karsed. You will say, it is now possible to speak when the outcome of this interpolation is clear, but still we with these instruments, including this interpolation, send some signals to our political space as well as wider. And that's what I'm most concerned about, because all these signals today, I don't think they've been of any benefit to the Slovenian country, and even less to the Slovenian army, not to our reputation. I'd like to have such interpretations at the end, which would say, great, we've highlighted a problem, we've exposed it, but we're also going to solve it. Today, we have only, very flattened in many ways, faced some problems that have been part of our army for some time. We know that, in the past, it is precisely in the field of the military, and I think that this is where Comrade Polnar of Desus has drawn very well how the military funds have been cut down in certain years. Above all, the economic, economic and other crisis in the past has contributed greatly to this, where, I believe, every leader has devoted these funds to some social content rather than to colleagues from the Left quite often, and they say irresponsiblely about my notions and about some weapons of interest from abroad. Times are a little better now. And I am pleased that this trend has already been reversed in the previous government under the leadership of Dr. Mir Cerar, both in the field of the military and in the field of the police, by dedicating more resources to these two areas of importance. In the past, we have also seen how quickly the security situation in the region can change to worse and how important it is that these structures that we have at our disposal are effective, are fresh to have some resources that are in the process of time, and can then respond to these challenges. Surely the military has a lot of challenges in this sense, so in terms of equipment, which is always a problem, whenever we decide to buy anything, the issue is sexualized, it becomes politically always controversial, we always manage to argue about it, someone will always find an argument and they will oppose why we acquire such equipment, why we would not rather get someone else. This is certainly useful to debate within public space, but this debate should always be professionally justified. Who can make it professional? Yeah, the one who knows her. I'm sure whoever it is isn't. However, we can have an opinion on this and, at the final stage, we are right to have an opinion. The second very big challenge our army faces is chiefly human resources. And I believe and, in the final stage, I rightly expect the minister, whoever it is, to make maximum efforts and with his team to find all the appropriate mechanisms to increase the number of members of the Slovenian Army to rise to some appropriate level. I believe that any solutions or additions, corrections, assistance that is also needed by the National Assembly, if well and qualitatively prepared, will be supported. And I believe that this support will also be wider, and I believe that, after all, colleagues from the SDS, who have always been and are now very important, will eventually join this support. When we discussed a number of aspects today, many aspects of developments within the Slovenian Armed Forces Summit, which I believe do not belong to a public debate, and they do not at all belong to a matter of interpretation, I would not like to say in any way that this is not something that should not be debated as an obvious matter, whether justified or not, to the Minister. What I'm saying is that the debate in the clear is, in public, about such delicate matters, which are so important to our security, some very bad signal at the final stage of the maturity of our democracy. Because I believe that a mature responsible country, if it has any such problems, will arrange them behind closed doors, because those key political actors, both on the side of the parties within Parliament and the government, will sit together. If they do not personally like themselves, this coordination is carried out by some intermediaries. But it is important to be aware that we are talking about Slovenia here and gathering political points on these topics is not the best solution. That is why the content of this interpolation, and not even as it was written, may have promised me something else at that time or it seemed as if something should have happened, did not happen, but from this debate we saw that in the end the aim was to overthrow the minister and also to contribute to an attack on the government itself, to weaken only the government, to weaken in the final stage of the Prime Minister. Some colleagues made this clear in today's debate. It makes sense, in its own way, how much better it is to respond to some potential frustrations, because someone at some point failed to form a government, but another question is. But to me, this question is primarily raised from this point of view, because if we are talking in this way, then, of course, we are, of course, closing the door and that this is cooperation between us, because sometimes we have to work together, even quite difficult. And after this interpretation, I'm skeptical that it will be easier to cooperate. When a proposal from the SDS from the military comes, Minister Erjavec will go much harder to the contrary. Here we all place a burden on each other, for which the question is whether it is necessary, and above all my question is who benefits. I've been asking myself this question over and over again. Let us leave that public opinion, some support from a political party, this or those who will be able to pull something out of this process, to capitalise. Above all, it is important whether this interpolation will benefit the Slovenian Army for 10 hours or 9 and a half hours. I don't think so, by no means. Above all, the topic that we have opened up on the health status of individual people, which we have also made very direct with the name and surname and have also diagnosed. I thought it was some kind of medical consulate. But that kind of consul of doctors, whenever and wherever he's sitting, does it behind closed doors and they can't get that information out. But here we are, I think we've gone very hard on the privacy of certain people. That's certainly not good. These debates have already opened up in Slovenia, I think, 12 years ago very strongly at this time, regarding the health situation of the then President of the Republic, who was not feeling very well, and then came out of this a number of speculations, many public debates. At that time, I recall that the information officer has made it very clear that there is no basis under our legislation for the public to know what the health status of a particular political official is. This is our legal order. Of course, there are different other arrangements abroad. For example, in the United States, the President of the country once a year in a report very clearly and transparently informs the world public once a year about his health. In our country, however, we are much more restrictive in this sense, and we are much stronger in protecting personal data. Well, we have not been so restrictive in this interpolation and we have, I estimate, seriously intervened in certain rights of certain individuals. And that's certainly not good. Here, too, some field is open to my notions, whether the public is entitled to know or be aware of whether it is a political or any other senior official of the Slovenian State – and I think that the army also belongs in this circle – that it is justified to have information with these people whether everything is okay in the health sense, whether they can perform their function or not. This is the question that I would like it to be answered at some point in time to resolve. Not to say that all these hours and so much of our sitting here have been thrown into nothing. We know that Mr Erjavec has been on the political scene for a long time, that he is skilled in this regard and that many can envy him all of his skills in political space. In many cases, the Slovenian public also laughed with a statement. The only thing left for me to remember was when it wasn't clear what was going to happen to the previous government, and he said that if I wrote it down somewhere, he would still cook for Ludmila. I don't think Mr. Erjavec is too worried about making his skin very thick at the time. But the point of all these interpretations, and even today, is not to attack someone with a name and a surname, but we need to focus on the function. So a man who does that function, not his last name. And those arguments that were offered today, I don't think they convinced. Above all, I am personally saddened, so I got the impression, some court fighting that may take place in the work of the Slovenian Army. I am not aware of the details, nor do I know the people who work there, so I do not have this possibility, nor do I feel very deprived, that a little after a meeting that takes place, I would get a call, but I would be aware of what someone has told them, because, as I mentioned before, a medical board, so it is right that the most delicate security issues in the field of the military are being dealt with by those responsible, and this should remain in that circle. That's where to find them, define problems, and find solutions. I believe that we will also be in politics, in the National Assembly, and in the Government of any other ministry, not only in the Ministry of Defence, but also in the Ministry of Finance, but also in infrastructure, so that I do not list further that they will look for a solution, some help will be sought. What we have witnessed today, I don't think it'll help to make it easier for younger people to decide to take up the profession of soldier or soldier, so that the public appreciates the army more than they do. Because if someone listens, if he tries to create an opinion on the situation, about the situation in the Slovenian Army only based on what he hears at today's interpretation, he will say that he really doesn't want to work there. I don't think the situation is as described. Of course, there are challenges everywhere, and there are many ways to improve. The energy we have is directed towards something good, something useful, not to put certain institutes and institutions that we have, at some stage, also the KNOVS, the Intelligence Security Services Commission, into an investigative committee that has two or three sessions just before the interpolation, to step up some pressure. These are some of the tools that are extremely important, and they are also extremely powerful in the porous phase. Data are also at some stage in the hands of the opposition precisely because of the establishment of some balance, but here it is necessary not to have ahead of you, whether the rating after some such process will be a little higher or a little smaller, but whether Slovenia will benefit from it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposaler Jean Mahnič. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u132	Thank you, Vice President. I would only answer that question when my colleague Perič asked himself who would have something to do with this interpolation today or what would become of this interpolation. I think the benefit of this interpolation is mutual if the interpolation succeeds as well as if the interpolation fails. If the interpolation were to succeed, it would be beneficial for the Slovenian Army to get rid of a poor minister who does nothing to make the situation better. But if the interpolation fails, I believe that Mr Karl Erjavec is so wise that he will not repeat the mistakes that have caused the interpolation, because he knows that he can do it again next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič has the word to prepare for Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't lose words about the value of this interpolation. It is good that colleague Perič has calmed matters a little bit rhetorically, if we do not just float ahead and talk about this matter very excitedly and emotionally, because there is really no war here today, there are only emotions, because ratia cannot be if there is no content. You say it's different, I say it isn't. We're both right, this moment, like that. The debate could end after 30 minutes of the motion and 30 minutes of the minister. We could draw the line, go to the vote and go home, because now we've been saying the same things over and over for 10 hours. Those who marked us as NATO’s servants and lacquers were still, they would have told me down in Primorska, they were most fortunate — even in the afternoon they had fun and they could go to sea, picnic, all together, they didn’t have to listen to this nonsense and enjoy the first summer day that came today. The day isn't lost, we're paid to do the talking. But I have to protest and express some resentment immediately – after years, I have kind of a middle generation, a little less middle generation, but in my 47th generation, I would never allow myself to offend the age of Slovenian politics, no matter what political options they come from. Such personal accounting is totally unacceptable, and such milking is even more so and is completely contrary to culture first, but if it comes from the Christian Democrats as well as another doctrine. I can't agree with that. Today, even more than usual, words of arrogance, sublimeness and permissiveness — lying, playing, misleading, politicizing, incompetence — come out very easily. We have witnessed a tiring monologue with the same subject and expression, always in the style of “something rotten is in the country of Denmark”, but with the difference that Shakespeare was a master of words and master of drama, we are masters of intrigue and turn it around like a centrifuge, we are always spinning, and we achieve the pines a little. The evidence for this is also a whole series of scrawny people or, if you want to use these hard words, very used instruments of parliamentary control. But it's just a way of working, you've internalized it, and you're constantly upgrading it, and with your word, it's perfidious, babal. Great. He's also challenging us, because we're going to move on. But it can be too destructive and dangerous too often, but it's obviously only weird to me, even when it comes to intelligence. Because I don't even know what we were talking about today. About the Minister? About the army? Intelligence? About Iran? About the Ljubljana bank? I don't know what we put in the same basket and move on. But intelligence services, which is a very sensitive topic, so we also closed the session today for a while. One of such stories we have had recently, we have witnessed, when the hearings about Croatia's influence on our media were published, it was urgent and urgent to call on the National Security Council. Right away. The country was torn apart. Then, when he was called — what happened? On your part, he was attended by the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. And now I don't know if it was a food crisis or a security crisis, even because you don't lack experts on security and defence issues. So much for being serious. Seriousness is also evidenced by the constant change in roles. You have to take a mirror sometimes, because what you see on this side, then you do the same thing. We do the same thing, but we don't throw it under your nose all the time. You're prosecutors and judges at the same time, and you're out of your role and actually out of your function. You do not find it difficult to change your role, even in the light of your current needs. On the one hand, you read the army's politics, and in the same breath, Comrade Mahnic, you said yourself, I called General Geder on the phone and said to him, "You will be suspended." But if this isn't about getting politics into the top of the army, I don't know what to call it. I hope I got it wrong, because you're gonna fix me, yeah, I hope so. Well, the epilogue is that I won't be too long, but I can leave a few minutes for my colleagues. There is no problem for you and the situation of the Slovenian Army. We all know he's not pink. But this problem has not arisen now, this problem is 27 years old, or it will be 28 years soon. Now all of a sudden it's just him, look at him. I can't agree with that. It's all our fault in here. One more, the other a little less. And every time I say that, I get 15 text messages, how stupid I am. We're all guilty. It doesn't matter how we vote. If you vote against it, then it turns out that you voted right, you just have a little more facilitating conscience, but co-responsibility, a collective not subjective one, you have to take over. After all, we are all members of the same institution. So for you there is no problem with the position of the Slovenian Army, at least today, you are disturbed by the Minister personally, him, Karl Viktor Erjavec, and what the Minister has already highlighted, also the Prime Minister. And I heard, "For whatever reason, power." And I will set up a mirror for you, and I will say, At all costs destroy them all. And it looks like you'll be happy when it's all yours inside. And I hope that you will succeed as soon as possible, because it is likely that this Slovenia and the whole world will be saved. So certainly the interpretation was not in vain, it went to nothing, here I have to agree with the proposer. Because we were just talking about things that we already know, and if we were to repeat them a hundred times, it would really have to move on once. With this hope, I wish the Minister, once again, at a special holiday, sincerely, health, hard nerves, and thick skin, that you already have. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposaler Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u136	Thank you. How fast things turn around. Yesterday, when I defended that government intervention law and supported the intervention shooting of bears and wolves, you all thanked me for how constructive we are, right now, something back, you say today, but we are the ugliest or the ugliest. So if I'm on your side I'm oh and even if I'm not on your side, we're all the worst. You said, buddy Pavšič – what should I be? That I said I called Geder and told him you'd be suspended tomorrow? I think you may have replaced a call from the Prime Minister or from his cabinet when Rudolf Scubet calls or from Lydia Glavino, and you will be suspended tomorrow or at the next SDH Supervisory Board meeting. As a member of the opposition, I cannot dismiss the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. What's wrong with you? As President of the Defence Committee, in my previous mandate for the Defence Committee's needs, I have communicated with a number of members of the Committee. As a member of the Defence Committee, I wanted to know what was going on in the MOR, what was going on in the Slovenian Army, and therefore I called the Commissioner and asked him whether he was holding what was said that you would be suspended. Because, you know what the difference is? Since you are Vice-President of the Defence Committee – no meeting was convened, no one asked anyone why General Geder was suspended or why the new chief would present herself, this would be a practice, but it was not. We could go after the presentation of the views at home, you said, we could go on forever. Then let's change the practice. Why do we have a parliament? Let's discuss it. Let's have a position and a vote. What is the difference between interpellation and marriage or resolutions or something else? Let's have a vote. Besides, you can go anytime. Nobody tied you to a chair. You can go whenever you want. As far as the National Security Council is concerned, it is necessary to read what it says, since it does not say that the President of the largest opposition party should come. On the National Security Council, when pressured on LMSH or on POP TV, some, what I know, foreign lobbyists. You are calling a meeting of the National Security Council when it is pressuring on a medium, not for essential matters relating directly to the lives of our citizens and citizens. Mr Breznik went to work in the Slovenian Army for years and years, he knows the national security system more than you and I, Mr Pavšič, as far as the practice is concerned. Not now, that's where the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee came in. Beznik is a Member with more votes than you, already three. And he'll probably be elected again. And if he's going to the National Security Council meeting, I really don't know what the problem is here. The mayor of Slovenian politics – see Mr Pavšič, I am respectful to the elderly, but in this Chamber we are all alike. Do you know what the only thing and what you said, or did you say Christian Democrats, the milk tooth, I don't know who it was flying on, probably us who are younger, so you're doing the same thing. You're asking me to be respectful to the elderly, and at the same time, you're calling us the younger ones. There is not one argument, perhaps another by the Members, but most smiling when I see what this kid is going to be. All it is is age, only age can tell me. Unexperienced in these years. You, who are fifty, sixty years old, are still so young that you do not need to sing that beautiful Slovenian song Oh, my youth, where you went, where you are. The crazed mountains are the title of this song. So let you do what you preach to others.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Pashovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u138	When a politician calls an officer, it's political involvement. And if he calls the officer, whether he is the Vice-President, the President or the Parliamentary, he is still a politician and he is affected. Even if he asks him anything, there is a way to do it, there are procedures for it, he calls him to the committee and asks him, not with the phone: “Listen, Alan, will you really give up or will you quit?” Yeah, according to the contents, we could go home, whether we can go home or not. Let's let the rest of this stand because it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u139	The text is by the proposaler Jean Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u140	As a Member, I can call anyone, and I can call anyone as a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Just get ready, Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Unfortunately, the interpretation went in a direction that was not good for the Slovenian Army in particular. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, we're sorry. [[advertising from the hall]] Twenty-five seconds went by now, but good. First thing is, who calls who, who doesn't call who? May I have your attention, so congratulations today, especially to Dr Klemen Grošl, that he has finally succeeded. Mr Grošelj, interpellation against the Minister is in fact not an intervention against Minister Karl Erjavac, it is an indirect intervention between you and your colleague Golobic that you have finally succeeded. You finally succeeded after being Minister Jaklić, this is the one who never wanted the Slovenian Army in its creation. This was when my colleagues and I were preparing to go to Pecra, some to Ig, when the fool was working from the then defence budget of the Defence Minister Janša. This is the one who, symbolically, brought down the other Janša government, appointed Roman Jakič as Minister of Defence, sent out essays, this was published by even Planet TV, so-called government, and not Nova 24, at the time not even existed, and gave instructions on whom to destroy – especially the Western Chief of Staff of Mr Mag. Good Christmas. When asked if that was true, and it worked from the so-called Intellectual Property Office. That didn't work out at the time. The thing kind of went under his arm. It is interesting that the photographer who recorded this is doing a great career in London today, then also because of Alenka Bratušek and because of Klemna Grošlje was suspended, the entire trials against him, especially Alenka Bratušek, and he really went abroad, where he is working his top career further. Klemen Grošelj – he has been removed slightly by the media, and has now succeeded with the minister who enjoys the lowest legitimacy for 359 votes in the elections, with no elected MEP, is of course a great target to bring them down. And who's being demolished? Who are they tearing down? Dear colleagues and colleagues, when you watch TV, switch to Discovery, watch a lot of movies from history, watch legendary commanders who have decided wars that have happened to be lucky or to the misfortune of human civilization, and recently watch World War II, watch General von Paulus, watch the former Wilhelm Keitl, watch the von Kluge and Gerda von Rundstedt, and most often also with me who talk about General Rommel, even though they do not agree with Hitler's policies at the time, and are great humanists, but admire some of the kind of people who might have, say, worked on the army that he always went with them and they went on their own. As Manstein or Guderian themselves went to the tanks, they went so-called Blitzkrieg, whether it was General Maister, who then drove his Master's army across our borders and drew the northern border of Slovenia. What was the point of all these people, tell me, in the first phase. The point was that all of these people usually started out as lower officers, that they went, we say in the Slovenian Army, according to the principle of progressiveness, and they came to all these positions. They did a number of command duties, ran water, led departments before that, usually troops. Hugely, most people speak respectfully about his incredible heroism, when he was only acting as lieutenant, then literally deceived more than a few hundred, I think, even a few thousand Italians and so on. So we're talking about the charisma of some of the commanders that people stand for, that they're after, that they can also win the war or lose the war. And if I look at anyone who went on, the so-called couple Clemen Groschel-Victor Erjavec went on the first stage of Alan Geder. Since 1988, he has been commander of the municipal headquarters of Territorial Defence in Gornja Radgona. In the worst conflicts we've had during the war, just under these lions' policies – under cover they've somehow forgiven Colonel Popov, it's gone from Slovenian justice, we're not talking about this anymore, and we've somehow forgotten this affair. Alan Geder started in 74 armored mechanized battalion after the war, that is, combat experience. Then he led a battalion, a top-ranking tank unit, then went to the 72nd Brigade 1999, the Deputy Force Commander, the Force Commander, was also the Deputy Chief of Staff. He went to school abroad and so on and so forth, so I don't explain. It's a principle of sequentiality. That's the principle when soldiers go with the commander. Those who were with him at -20 at Poček, who were shooting with him at gunpoint, where he was on various duties. I can tell you, even those who were critical of him, most of the time they were made a fool of a lot of commanders, but when it comes to Alan Geder's name, among my colleagues in the Slovenian Army is just a label: brave, determined, charismatic commander, who we have always followed and never doubted his decisions. Continuation. Miha Škerbinc – Barbo. We used to call Barbo "colleagues," and we were critical, and sometimes we even labeled him with a so-called typical American dream, and we talked about our American ranger. But look, an executive officer, an officer of the United Nations peacekeeping mission, commander of the legendary 20th Motorized Battalion of the Slovenian Army, who was one of the first to go on a mission, commander of the 10th Motorized Battalion, commander of the elite First Brigade of the Slovenian Army, deputy director of the Military Planning Department, military policy, of course, the Alliance of NATO and so on and of course the unfortunate Commander of the Force Command in less than a year. And we'll come if I leave all the rest of my former commanders, all the Chiefs of General Staff, with a very similar career and career arrangement as you've seen here. Part of the career began somewhere in the ranks, including those who were active during the war, somewhere in the rank of captain, lieutenant, and came to the Chief of Staff, to the rank of Major General. That's the principle of sequentiality. This is a principle when you test a man when you put him on some lower command duty, see if he has found out he's going to a higher, time-honored officer, see if he's capable of a higher perception, a wider perception of space, or if he can go from operational level of command to tactical level of command, or if he's capable of then stepping to strategic level. And quite a few of my former colleagues have come to this highest level. We're on our way to poor Alice Ermenc now. Duties in the Slovenian Army, respected colleagues – with whom have they replaced Alan Geder? Operational Affairs Reference, Operational General Affairs Assistant, European Security Conference Planning and Analysis Re-reference, Planning Assistant, Command Training Assistant, Chief of the Documents Division, Chief of Planning and Analysis Division. Then she was indeed the commander of the Intelligence and Intelligence Battalion, but this is on Vrhnika, this is in one of the offices inside where they mostly deal only with the operation of the communication and information system of the Slovenian Armed Forces, this was just one year. This seemed to be necessary in order to enable her to proceed immediately to the General Staff, the Chief of Joint Sector, the Deputy Director, and, in the meantime, the Chief of Staff at the Force Command, and again the Chief of Staff at the Office. And back in the office and back in the office and in the office. If we let women not be judged today by their charisma, by their physical conjecture, when they come before the soldiers, I think we all respect women in the Slovenian Army. Dear colleagues, if it were now 1991, and instead of Anton Krkovič, Alenka Ermenc, instead of Mr. Janez Janša, Karl Viktor Erjavec, on the other hand, and the Yugoslav Army with all its weapons, tell me, dear colleague, that I appreciate you, that you were in Desus, you were even at headquarters, you were working for a while, or would you follow these two in the time of the Slovenian independent war? [[advertising from the hall]] Don't ask. Thank you. [[Laugh]] You know, it's a little ironic, of course, it's a little humorous, but if we're talking about the Slovenian Army, about an institution that has enjoyed the greatest confidence of citizens and citizens, an institution that's been placed on new foundations of this Slovenian state, then of course we're in a completely different state. That's the point of today's interpolation. I used to be labeled by a colleague of mine. Did you see what he said about farmers? Cash, some chairman of the Agriculture Committee. Have you seen those who are involved in agriculture, what a bad attitude these coalition members have toward agriculture? Do you see? Have you seen, Secretary of State, how they make fun of agriculture? Did you see that? Do you see what they're doing? But you know, we had two accidents in agriculture. I used to talk about two accidents in the Slovenian Army. I was talking about the budgetary threat and revaluation of the basic values of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which emerged from the values of Slovenia's independence. That's what I was saying last March, but I apologize for forgetting the third thing. In agriculture we had first the venison in Slovenian forests, then we had the windshield in Slovenian forests, and then we had the attack of the underlings. In the Slovenian Army, however, there has been: a budgetary threat since 2009, constantly, a fall of more than 40% of the financing of the Slovenian Army, a revaluation of values where we went into some values that should have long gone from the former country, a departure from the Western Civilisation Round: And now the third threat, we also have in the Slovenian Army attacks of a subscriber, a small and large cyclist, unfortunately, forgive the expression, a very similar label. It attacks on the biggest immune system of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which charismatic commanders in the Slovenian Army have, and the destruction of the best command staff in the Slovenian Army with lame excuses, with excuses no one can buy. Here's my insult to both of you. One for the prize goes to Brussels, of course, I don't know why Brussels doesn't put you in Moscow, I think that there in Moscow could be a super part of some KGB analysis teams, how hybrid warfare with critical countries, where democracy is very threatened, as in Slovenia, and of course the other part that is most important, but it is important whether this institution will stand a third threat. The Slovenian army is under threat. It is threatened by a politician who has an extremely low legitimacy, as demonstrated by voters, that even voters in his constituency no longer trust him, that is, with 300 votes, so much votes gets in one of our local communities a slightly better municipal councilman. This means that they don’t trust you or control you in any kind of kindergarten or any kind of kindergarten. And that's the problem right now. I believe this will happen to me one day. This is not a finger-pointing, every politician here has its beginning, its summit and its end. Just like I'm going to experience it, I hope. But then I'll get over it. Just as I grew up when I got very sick and after we had to tear the encircles out of our uniforms in the Slovenian Army and when I saw them destroy the Slovenian army, just at the time when Mr Klemen Grošelj began to give much advice and we had to take the first fighters out of our uniforms, then I said, "Look, gentlemen, unfortunately, we will have to leave this system." And unfortunately, this system shows incredible resistance, it's incredibly enduring, the great motivational energy that my colleagues hold up to this day, with miserable salaries, with miserable status, but still holding together, they're still proud of us and I still appreciate them as my battle comrades and colleagues. That's why I'm so sensitive that there's people there who have this institution, I could say, a negative relationship, even an hated relationship. Every army is set up by men. Most often we say: People are our essence, people are our biggest capital. When you're opening up the darkness and removing Miho Škerbinc, Comrade Barba, then you're dealing with all those we love and have set up. Because we appreciate it. Just like we appreciate Alan Geder, the Major General. Just as we appreciated the other majors, officers, officers and even soldiers. And there's a big problem. Here's your problem, dear fellows. That's the whole point of interpolation. That's the whole point of interpolation. We need to discuss that. And tell me, if you change some company's key personnel and put people who don't have competence there, as you've found, on their career path you see the reliefs themselves, you see that it's about saloon officers who never worked with soldiers on the ground, because no Chief of Staff, Alenki Ermenc, trusted even leadership, if you look at it, actually even running the department. Do you imagine? What example is this to the soldiers, the officers that this Chief of Staff is currently leading at the strategic level? Give me an argument. Have you seen this career path? But you are aware that the Chief of the General Staff does not meet the conditions nor for the battalion commander, let alone for the Force Commander or more on this career path. Where are there missions abroad? Have you seen this career path? This was required for all my colleagues when they went to battalion level or more. That's the whole point of beheading. Here is the essence of these shameful excuses today as to how to replace them. And now imagine that the Salon Officer, and respect for every one of mine, including colleague Alenka Ermenc, replaces the charismatic commander who led a whole range of battalions of the Force Command, all with excellent grades, was abroad on missions and so on. Where did that confidence come from? That's the whole point of interpolation. And that's the fifth point I'm setting for you, not the fourth point set by the SDS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you say that the interpretation is poorly prepared. She's weak. SDS doesn't know. Even today, Jani Möderndorfer said he expected more. That's a little bit more, that's an additional argument. That's an additional argument. The same words, the same acts were defended twice by the previous coalition – let me tell you – at Miley Kolar Celarc. You know what they're saying now? Can someone repeat to me what they say about the former Minister of Health? And where did Mr. Miro Cerar and his client go? Approximately, you can also look at the scales. Approximately the same words were used: “SDS scares, Jelka Godec invents things who told you, we will improve everything, you will see, only that the interpretation is over.” Don't you, colleague Godec, what did they say? Remember? And how did the matter end? How many people may have died in these waiting lines because of your vote? Now, perhaps again, a little serious. How many deaths are you responsible for, respected colleagues and colleagues? How many people may have been diagnosed with cancer very late, perhaps sooner or later? How many children died during this time? But did you forget that they even experimented with child surgery, heart surgery, and you raised your hands here and defended a completely incompetent minister, incompetent and incompetent? But in a few years' time, will you take responsibility, which is almost none of the politicians? When the Slovenian Army is to come to an end, now in the face of difficult changes in the security situation – and this must be stressed – it is therefore an important element or a significant time at this time that a strong policy is coming, with strong will, extremely professional and surrounded by professional people who are oriented towards a pro-Western institution that is our global link, that is, NATO, and who have the necessary experience and expertise for themselves. One completely ideologically opposed to NATO, and the other, of course, at this point in 2004, when everything flourished in the Slovenian Army, when the charismatic commanders led the Slovenian Army, when we entered NATO, to be Minister of Defence at the time, of course, it was easy to be Minister now in the government and to make more money, but of course it is difficult. [[…]] You need a real minister here, a coalition. For this is my argument that Mr Karl Erjavec does not enjoy my support at this time, but we have never been in a bad relationship, I must admit, personally. After what we did in Corsica, even though Janša’s government was there, who was responsible if anything had happened, Janez Janša would have been the biggest culprit again. Now that it was a success, you were the most deserving. I, who spent three years researching it with my money, was in the shadows, of course, but I'm still proud that we worked together, and I've praised you many times. But actually, look, at this point, in this element, at this time, Comrade Erjavec, we could find ourselves another function. I also recommend to the coalition that you find him another political function and that you place on this function a man who has competence and who can strike at the table and who has greater legitimacy than Karl Erjavec currently has, because he needs the Slovenian Army through it. The Slovenian Army needs it very much. If you find a woman who's capable, I support her. But it's also a necessary legitimacy within the government. And this is the story of Karl Erjavac, this is the story of the Slovenian Army and not least, respected colleagues, this is the story of the survival of the Slovenian people in the next severe crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. True, we are always in good relations with Ambassador France Breznik, and we have already had some beer together, so I hope it will be so in the future. But today I understand your distress that you must vote as ordered. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u145	We're moving on. The next one gets the word, Franci Kepa, but get ready for the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone! The most disturbing task in the area of defence would be to narrow it down to three points. First, overstatements of the security intelligence service, second, inaction in the purchase of arms for the Slovenian Army and third, failure to complete formations in the Slovenian Army. The biggest problem is that the number of military troops is still declining, despite the promise of defending the minister nine months ago that you will do everything you can to stop this trend. If it goes that way, in a few years we'll come to a critical mass, if not already, the number of soldiers to carry out our duties. This is indeed a situation that has arisen, but since your appearance as minister, the situation has not improved. Often the reason mentioned by members is too low personal income. For this very reason, young people do not choose to enter this service. For more than a decade, resources for defence purposes have been falling, but for several years now the economic situation has improved so that the conditions for this to happen are improved. Military equipment should also be modernised. Even the composition of officers and soldiers is not right, their relationship is inadequate. The purchase of eight-wheelers has stopped. It is good that we have at least the 30 floors that will have to be completed with another heavy weapon soon. The reserve composition is also decreasing. Personally, I expected you to reduce the number of rashes by various measures in order to finally wait for several more soldiers to arrive in the army for a few months in a row than you left. After 45 years, the soldiers were left without mercy and lost their jobs. Instead of transferring them to civil services, perhaps protecting borders with militias or something else, and thus going after 45 years on the road, retraining for other professions, some going to security professions, going abroad, self-organization in the military is not acceptable to them. That way you get the feeling that everything is done so that this army of ours doesn't live with its lungs as it should be. I doubt you'll be able to move things any better. The powers of night shooting at Poček were also exceeded. Another case from Croatia. Croatia got a pretty nice number of helicopters and armored vehicles from America, and it was free. Why don't we get that? But maybe we'll get some weapons from Russia for free because we have a very good friendship with her, but we'll probably have to go from the NATO Pact to some other pact. You've been in almost every government. As an advantageous article, you were needed everywhere or needed your votes. You are a crumb of development in Slovenia, one of the few customers with the back of pensioners, but the core is the pensioners, whose standard is constantly getting worse. I'll vote for the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word "magic." Branislav Rajić prepares Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone. They mentioned hours, 9, 10, it's actually 12 hours as long as this interpolation takes. And this interpolation is the first, quite familiar in this mandate, and is expected to continue the practice of interpolation sport in the goal of self-promotion. The issues that the proposer cannot hide are the desire to maintain influence in the Slovenian Army, as if it were not the army of the whole of Slovenia, that it wants to weaken the government with interpretation, which is understandable, trying to provoke military politicisation, which is unacceptable, but also unconstitutional. The Union of Soldiers of Slovenia, by calling on members of the National Assembly to intercede against the Minister of Defence, is an involvement in the legislative branch of power. What would it look like if someone else got involved in defense? Let us look around the world at the countries in which the military directs Parliament, what to discuss and how to discuss. That's probably not what anyone here wants. Today, however, the Slovenian army is in such an aggregate state, if you will, that corresponds to the peace-keeping situation of a two-million-dollar developed country in Europe today. Reference to NATO members to the multimillion-dollar population is inappropriate and cannot be comparable. The main stumbling block is why the head of the Slovenian Army has punished slander and slander. And the stumbling block is this way he decided to check the facts, because he actually had to protect the institution of Chief of Staff, which was compromised and degraded. There was only a lack of mention of the gynecological aspect, because the commander is a woman. Okay, where's the border? With various information on the specific person who holds the most important place in the Slovenian Army, foreign services could achieve the discreditation of the entire army in the international environment. But here we can't overlook Nate as a reference environment. Thus, disinformation and discreditation of commanders affect the situation in the Slovenian Army and, consequently, also the war-prepared army. Such conduct must, of course, be resisted by anti-intelligence services. That is why I believe that the Minister has not abused the ODS, but I accept that you think otherwise. But you can imagine what the situation would look like if we didn't contain information about Commander General Staff's mental problems. Such situations, Minister, you must not allow them, and it is good not to allow them. However, the concern is that this information comes not from external sources, but from the inside, from the very relations within the Ministry of Defence. The problem is therefore a disturbed organisational culture, that the system has begun to deal with itself instead of dealing with the basic function, with the defence capacity of the state. The system is therefore weak and problematic, both in security and in the anti-intelligence sense. In order to improve this, the Minister set up a working group in January, which is already implementing these measures at the MOR. But Minister Erjavec has taken over the country's defence sector from the previous government, which has set one more mature condition, better than before, has set a trend in reducing defence spending. My colleague Mahnič would've fixed it when he said Cerar's government didn't invest in the army. It's not true, she's raised this trend, she's starting to meet Nate's commitments gradually, which haven't been fulfilled for a while. It has adopted the Critical Infrastructure Act to strengthen security against threats and risks. It has established systems not to be garaged at the airport, but to help transport the transplant authorities and, finally, the Slovenian Armed Forces and the police in addition to helicopter emergency services also carry out helicopter medical services. When you take over the material in such a state, it is clear that there is still work to be done and many things to be cleaned — sloths, saboteurs, impatience to women’s command, as well as malicious men. This is the decision of the leaders and also their duty. I respect the importance and validity of this Council of State and also of the Minister of Defence, and respect the way he maintained his stance during this interpretation, despite the fact that the level of debate has fallen to a historic low level. You see, there's no one here who can point to mental depravity, and there's a connection between this question and the ability to do it. In his response to the interpolation, he made the facts clear. It is understandable to me that he also responded emotionally to the anthologically low provocations, thus showing that ministers are also human. And it's a good thing that armies and states are running people over robots. That's why I'm not going to support the interpretation because she's going in the wrong direction. The defence of the state is too important to own it or possibly kidnap only one political option. Minister, use the Ministry's weapons with caution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor and Mr Franc Jurša is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! First, allow a few words about interpolation. I see that you count to us the hours we've been discussing, how many interpretations have ever been invested, how much we've invested. Look, interpellation is a tool that the opposition has. And the opposition is the one who controls the government. And if he thinks something's wrong, that one of the ministers isn't doing it right, he's gonna write an interpolation. So interpretation depends on what ministers do, not on opposition good will, because it has nothing else to do. Some of you even told us that we should be ashamed to write such an interpretation. I should be ashamed of the minister that we have to deal with this at all. If I had been a little self-critical, I would have given up on these things that are happening, which is not the reputation of the military, and so on. It would happen abroad, yes, but it doesn't happen with us, so maybe we have some kind of interpolation more than we would have. My colleague told me we were going to an interpeel sport. Look, this is very rude. We are not going to any sport, but by interpolation we are alerting ourselves to the wrong, illegal work of the minister. It's a serious matter. And to say that every interpolation is worse and that we should bring something new now. Hello, but now you're going to tell us how we're going to write the interpellation and what are we going to report to the minister? And if we don't bring something else then on the day of interpolation, then this interpolation is not right. Let's be serious. If you've read what we've written, things are very clear. The Security Services Supervisory Commission found that the Minister had abused the position and military intelligence service by ordering a spy to rescue Commander Šerbinc. She found the same thing in the case of then Defence Minister Vebra. At that time, the KNOS also exercised control and found or abrogated a violation of the Law on Defence and the violation of legal powers. He wrote no. Miro Cerar, then Prime Minister, who asked the Minister to report to him. Following the Minister's report and the subsequent completion of the report and the examination of all other facts and circumstances, it is clear that the Minister of the Service has ordered the preparation of an analysis of the divestment of the national operator to a foreign buyer on the basis of the third indent of Article 32(1) of the Defence Act and the consequences thereof for the performance of the ODS tasks. However, the examinations by the ODS under this provision may have an anti-intelligence nature when it comes to jeopardising the defence interests of the State, which is not demonstrated in the present case. He's not here either. This should also take into account the fact that any analysis carried out in the context of the defence and security services is undoubtedly carried out for the intelligence activity, irrespective of whether specific forms of data acquisition have been used. And Prime Minister Cerar said at that time that this has seriously shaken the confidence in the work of the minister and that his work will continue to be under constant doubt, because his actions in this case are impossible to assess differently from illegal and unprofessional. It shows that the Minister is objectively responsible for the illegal, irregular and untransparent functioning of the ODS. This is in the case of the then Minister of Vebra. KNOVS now finds similar in the case of each other's minister, this time Karl Erjavac. We no longer want to see this report. In closed work, the President of KNOVS told us what was going on and how it was happening. We have several documents before us, a testimony from Mr Škerbinc. If you allow me, I will read only one part: “The Minister of Defence has never issued guidelines if someone knew about them, ” we are talking about shooting at Poček, “the secretary of state would know about them, the minister’s advisor would know about them, the head of the Ministry of Defence would know about them for strategic communication and would be responsible for them. [[…]] [[…]] I'd know about them, but she didn't know. On the 26th of March, on the day of the shooting, Aleš Sila, in response, gave a detailed description of how and when we will shoot, after dates, including March 26, 27, 28th, that we will shoot by the third hour of the morning. He wrote it publicly and the whole of Slovenia knew it. And he wrote exactly, wrote in Article 9, how we will shoot up to ten days a month at night, except in July and August. This was the direction of the military and this direction was recorded in all the acts of command, and this direction was given to all my subordinates. And I, as Force Commander, could not and could not change it." In his reply, too, Mr Erjavec says that he should obey his unwritten commands, that we have already found that it is illegal, that the minister cannot dictate and determine what someone should do, because he is not his superior or if he were to carry it out, he should not be in violation or following these orders. And in response to the interpolation, you write yourself that unfortunately, there was nothing written about these decisions that said no shooting. So I'm not surprised that KNOVS found out everything he found out. No matter if the Minister survives today's interpolation, and it will probably be because you've already announced most of the time, Prime Minister Sarec will probably find out in a little while what kind of millstone he's got behind his neck. In fact, we've put in quite a few interpretations, some of you say we're sports, interpeel sports, to go. Interpellation against Katarina Kresal, I've already said several times about renting a building for the National Investigation Office. She survived the interpolation, but when future events showed and proved that we were right, Mrs Kresalova stepped down. So it wasn't a lame interpretation. An example of Minister Lukšić's interpretation of the construction of the Stožice or co-financing. The process is still ongoing and we will almost certainly be or I think we have already had to repay the European Union's funds for Contingency because they have been unlawfully allocated. That's what we've been interpolating on him, the coalition MPs have saved him, voted against interpolation, but the matter will sail ahead and someone should be responsible, but of course it won't. Twice the interpolation in the previous term against Minister Kolarjevo. We'd have half the problems in health care if we supported the interpolation and replaced the poor minister. So you're not, colleagues from SD, colleagues from Desus, Jani Möderndorfer, colleagues from SMC. Well, you didn't. And now we are dealing with an even bigger health problem than if this first day the Minister were replaced and brought in a man who is competent and capable of solving matters. Just delayed years and bigger problems every time. You know, if you put a problem under the rug, you're gonna have to save it once, just so it gets bigger. I will, of course, support the interpretation because I believe what Commander Škerbinc has said, believes what KNOVS has written in its findings and findings. I think it's awful that people were interrogating and running, I'm gonna say, the investigation is worse than I don't know what people were doing, and it's because of the rumors. You'd think that's not possible, but obviously everything is possible in this country. In short, the minister would deserve to say good-bye to his position today. And before you know it, you'll find out, even though you'll probably be pressing the interpolation button today. But it would have been time, colleagues of the SMC, to ask yourself if you were right when you supported Minister Kolarov twice. What could be different today, how many doctors in Slovenia and not elsewhere in Austria, how many people would arrive on time, let us hope that no one has died at this time because the waiting times are only increasing and only the problems are amassing. And then you say we're all responsible for the situation. It's not our fault because we said Minister Kolarev was wrong. That's why we filed the interpolation. We are speaking the same way now as Minister Erjavac, and therefore we have put in an interpolation. Not because we're going sports, but because we're monitoring what he's doing and how he's doing. And we're all worse off if the Minister works badly, we're all citizens of this country. So, Minister, we'd do everyone a favor if we left alone, but we know you won't. I want you to be the result of this interpolation, so you can do better, even though I highly doubt it. And, as I said, he will regret, once, as it is possible for Mir Cerar today, that he did not replace Milojka and fell for the results of the elections, such that he will not think the same in a few years' time, Mr Sarec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say, it's interesting to listen to this plea so I can step down so I can do this voluntarily. I don't know why you're begging so much about this. If the interpretation had the right basis, believe that your colleagues would support your interpretation precisely for the reason that Mrs Jeraj spoke about. Believe me, this coalition doesn't want another Miley. And Karl's not Milojka. Why isn't it? For the first time because the Intelligence Security Service has not been abused, it has carried out security tasks in accordance with the Defence Act and, of course, in accordance with the powers conferred by the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police. And it wasn't about interrogations, but it was about informative conversations. Did this terrible event really happen? I must say, first of all, I couldn't believe that a subordinate would speak so ill of the medical condition of Chief General Staff that he had psychological problems. Isn't that terrible? Isn't that a terrible violation of the rules of the Slovenian Army? And of course, if you did not react and if the Intelligence Security Service did not react in the framework of its regular activity, this would be a waiver of duty because it was a violation of the rules of the Slovenian Armed Forces. And so the constant repetition that this was one abuse of intelligence services, look, it's unfortunately a misappropriation of the public. And that's not true. That's what the legal experts told you, they were on TV, they said there was no abuse of Intelligence. As for the allegations that Brigadier Škerbinc did not know about the shooting at Poček, it was the Minister's direction that he would not be fired with calibers higher than 60 millimetres when it came to the hawk exercise (Eagle). How can you say he didn't know? Yes, of course because he auto-published what the Force Command sent. That was the reason. But once again, Brigadier Škerbinc has confirmed a document that was a proposal for material for the government signed by Chief of General Staff Alan Geder. This proposal was adopted on 24 January 2019 at a meeting of the Government. And you deny to me that I must not give as Minister of Directions and Directions that he should not be shot at the Eagle exercise with calibers higher than 60 millimetres, which is in line with what Brigadier Škerbinc has confirmed. Let me explain whether he should explain, as he will be once again, as he has heard from the Commission on Security and Intelligence Supervision, to explain to you how he would not respect the decision of the government, which he himself confirmed when there was a proposal. And this decision of the Government, when it was received by the Ministry of Defence, immediately went to General Staff and immediately sent it to the Force Command, where Commander Škerbinc was. And so stop deceiving that he knew nothing and that he didn't know the Minister's directions. He knew because if he didn't know, he wouldn't have confirmed the proposal made by the General Staff. And he was the director of this headquarters at the time. So stop deceiving that he didn't know here that he shouldn't be shooting at Falcon (Eagle) with calibres above 60 millimetres, and stop being abused by the Intelligence Security Service, because if it wasn't for this case of excellence, this case of rejection, which is truly unprecedented, it hasn't happened in the Slovenian Army, that someone would talk like that about Chief of Staff or Chief of General Staff, that they have psychological problems. In a closed session, however, I also showed the documentation that tells us more about the matter. This interpretation simply has no content, as many in this Chamber today have found out and is primarily a political act. That's why there's so much talk as much time to watch Karl Erjavc. I know I'm disturbing you, but look, political life is like that. That still bothers you how many votes I got. But look, my client I run is in Parliament. We could understand that political logic. If there is a party in Parliament, if there is a coalition, it is also clear that the President of the party is or is in the government. And why should the Minister be a member of Parliament at the same time? I've been a Member of Parliament a number of times. And now that we're talking about the result that I've achieved – I'm deliberately still in a bad neighborhood, on purpose. [[Laughing in the hall]] , deliberately, yes, you can laugh, you can laugh, especially in the SDS, because it depends on your president where he's going to run. That is why you can follow his instructions so blindly. He knows exactly that he must obey the president of the SDS, either he will get such a district or he will not be allowed to run at all. Franz Breznik, with whom we drink some beer, of course he has to vote for the interpretation, and otherwise he will no longer be in this national assembly. It's this simple political logistics. So let me do it again. There was no abuse of the Intelligence Service, and also Brigadier Škerbinc knew precisely the decision of the Government and also the direction of the minister. Why, though, one day later, when the exercise was completed, did he correct his act and order that up to 23 hours of fire be fired only by a calibre of up to 60 millimetres? Why did he fix it? Because he knew the government's decision and the minister's instructions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Proposer Jean Mahnic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u154	Mr. Minister, why is every statement a new lie? Did you hear what he said? “I have run in the worst district.” He was running for office in the district of Tržič. From 2011 to 2014, Mr Jan Jenko, from 2014 to the previous term, was elected Member Jan Jenko. That's what they say. That's what Desus chose for the county in Gorenjska. For Desus, the best district in Gorenjska and in him was run by Karl Erjavec because he saw on the basis of his analysis that he would bring him more than in the district of Žalec. Look, Minister, if you have twice had an MP from this province, it is clear that this is the best district in Gorenjska. So please stop! And I'm running for office as opposed to you where I am. As for that, Mr. Secretary, because you have your way, people don't laugh at you anymore, you were popular. I, too, when I started watching 2004, 2005, 2006, when I started following politics, I was just waiting for Karl Erjavec to say something to make me laugh because he was entertaining us, but these times are over. People don't laugh at you anymore. And here too, Members, when you've been explaining how to get to Naklo on Sunday, it's no longer funny, Mr Minister. If you think someone's laughing behind the screens, I don't think so. However, I would ask – I have not yet received an answer to this question, to one of many – what about that college, Mr Minister? How is it possible that there is no college record and what is the practice at the Ministry when you have colleges? Are the records made or not? And how is it possible for a piranha service to write a list of activities in various exercises throughout the Slovenian Army for a whole year? That's what they say. The pear job has all the wrong information for a year, and you tolerate it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u156	Look, as far as that college is concerned, there was no college, but there was a working meeting and we don't write records about working meetings. However, as for the publication of the pear service, I must say that, unfortunately, they automatically publish what they have received from the Force Command. This will obviously need to be changed, for such mistakes may also occur.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u158	Mr. Minister, you made it clear: "Scherbintz knew about this shooting, he knew he shouldn't shoot at night. I gave this direction to the college, where Škerbinc was also present.” Now you're saying this college wasn't there. Maybe it is a work meeting, college, what is it now? [[…]] The college is a college. You kept talking in the media after everything was gone, all the arguments, you said, Škerbinc was at the college where I issued oral guidance. You keep correcting your statements for the back. That doesn't make you look credible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u159	Mr. Pojbich, do you have a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u160	Yes, of course, I have a replica. You have turned the matter a little too quickly because Mr Erjavec immediately notified himself again to the word. When he spoke about the worst constituency, I must say this, Mr Erjavec, you did not get 360 votes because you are a good minister because you are a good president of Desusa, but you got only 360 votes because you issued the pensioners, and that is the most important thing, you issued the pensioners and the result showed that people do not want to see you in politics anymore, but then you came to this position at the side door that you have here today, and that is unacceptable and irresponsible and you should have left Slovenian politics long ago because you have issued the pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u161	Thank you for that replica. I don't know where you recognized yourself in the debate. Okay, here we go. Franz Jurša has the word, and Joseph Horvat is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u162	Since I only have one minute, I will speak very quickly. [[Laugh]] And I'd like to see if I can get some answers in the debate. Jean, do you know what people think of you? Some have talked today about our election results, but we have been and we have been in Parliament for several decades, someone has forgotten that in one period he was not even in Parliament, and you have given up, gentlemen, a little too much. Who would I follow in 1990 and 1991? The employer and the country, just like I followed. “Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec is professionally incompetent.” The Minister is not an officer of the Slovenian Army, but a politician. Buying a helicopter is not the same as going to the store and buying a pound of sugar. No, not at all. And I want to know which American said that the Škerbintz is acknowledged that Karl Viktor Erjavec is not recognized in America. I'd like a name and a last name.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u164	I'm just gonna answer his question about what people think of me. I think that we can assess this to the politicians on the basis of the electoral results. I received 3 thousand 252 votes, 42% in my congregation, and this number 3 000 252 is higher than all five of Desus's Members combined.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u165	We're moving on. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. As the last one, Mr Zvonko Blackach should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Me, my colleagues and my colleagues are deeply concerned about the situation on the Defense Department. It is true that Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec always wins, even this time he will win, at least this is how he will interpret this evening's vote. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, she will lose Slovenia. Again. He himself said in December 2015 about the arbitration, and this is where Karl will surely win. Thank you for such a victory, Mr. Karl. Now let us be realistic, because I am genuinely concerned about how to proceed with the Slovenian Army, how to proceed with the defence resort. From this day forward, a new period will begin. Firstly, the period of some other ethical standards is significantly lower than that of the coalition. I myself welcomed this, there were quite a few important human resources exchanges, including at ministerial level. He had to leave our colleague for a social experiment called a sandwich. Normally, if an MP steals a sandwich, he has to leave. Two ministers have left. Normal. High standards were set. And it is normal for Mr Marjan Sarec to immediately take the lead after the popularity of Slovenian politicians. Because he hit the table. Because he demanded high ethical standards. From this evening forward, ladies and gentlemen, everything will be different. It's gonna be different. And when I was preparing my position along with our expert committee, when we gave numbers, percentages and so on, I was really worried and worried about how it would be from tomorrow. How will a Slovenian military union bring a criminal complaint against a minister who does not have confidence? What will be the cooperation from here on out? How will he tackle the three biggest problems in the Slovenian Army, which we have also highlighted, namely the catastrophic situation in the human resources field? Mr. Minister, here I asked you a simple question, perhaps you answered, I haven't been in the hall all along. But now he's gone? Yeah, look at that, piece of shit. I only asked how many members of the Slovenian Army were, Mr Minister, how many members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were there on 13 September and how many were there today. Then another problem is the purchase of technical equipment for the Slovenian Army and overstepping the powers of the Security Intelligence Service. This matter is likely to be resolved in one way or another today. But I am pleased that you have proposed, we voted in favour of the closing session, because I, too, and those who have just listened and wanted to listen and hear, have found that it has been proven that it has been proven that it cannot be proved more precisely than that the Commission's conclusions on the supervision of the intelligence services have been confirmed, that the MORS Intelligence Service had no basis for the use of police powers, and it carried them out. How is it that now in this atmosphere in the Defense Department until the end of the term, I hope, for three more years to work forward and solve problems that are not the fault of Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec, but when he went to this resort, he knew exactly what was ahead of him? He made an excellent presentation of the situation at the hearing on the committee responsible. The Minister is in order to reach a political majority in Parliament in order to adopt the measures that he must propose and to prepare the profession for sure. I also have to touch myself here – in some ways I was hurt, perhaps I was too much of a patriot when it was simply Major General Alan Geder who had to leave. I admit, maybe because I'm too local patriotic, because we're cousins, he's born in Lendava, and the man who studied in America, known in the Nato Circles, he had to leave. Okay. I didn't call him. We don't even talk about it. He accepted that and he's gone today, and I wish he was. Today, the winner is also Levica, who, in fact, directly supported Mr Erjavac by going out to sea. And Levi is actually a great winner, you could even say that Miha Kordish is the Chief Minister of Defence. Perhaps no one understands this, but those who were with the soul and body and with their ears on that foreign policy committee on the day of the State holiday, on August 17th last year, at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, therefore, it was perfectly clear that the Left did not support Marjan Šarc if it went forward with the purchase of armored 8x8.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. As the last part of this debate, Mr Zvonko Černač gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u168	Yes, thank you very much and once again a nice greeting to all present, especially the ministerial assembly and the minister! After almost 13 hours of today's debate, the well-respected Minister, it might be good or it would be right to get some answers to questions that have not been answered. First question to which you did not exactly answer: Why did you resolve Brigadier Mih Škerbinc after a few months? And after you named him yourself. What, then, was the reason for his release? In the introduction, we have said that for some time you referred to disregarding the instructions in the exercise at the Poček Military Training School, then you referred to the dissemination of inappropriate rumours about the Chief of Staff, and finally you said that you do not need to provide any explanation, but the law clearly states that high-ranking military officers are called on the basis of official needs and are also being resolved in the same way. So, Minister, why was Miha Škerbinc qualified a few months ago to appoint him to this high position, and after a few months you changed your mind and resolved him from this position? And the second question that is even more important than the first: Why did you not follow the rules that you refer to and speak of not being allowed to discredit members of the Slovenian Army? Why did you publicly discredit Brigadier Miho Šerbinec with information that proved inaccurate? Even in today’s closed session, we learned nothing new. This closed part was your show as part of the script of response to the interpolation, with which you wanted to give importance to some documents, but what we heard in the closed work was all presented publicly, Miha Škerbinc also spoke at a meeting of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, even in that part concerning his alleged inappropriate statements. So, what were the specific reasons for appointment and relief? Why did you publicly embarrass and frame a high-ranking military officer and thereby harm him personally as well as the Slovenian Army? That they were not the reason for this resolution to disregard orders and fire at the Poček military exercise, to stress once again, is also based on the report of the Chief of Staff, i.e. his direct superior, of 30. This year's 3rd. Where it is clearly stated that it acted in accordance with the guidelines and in accordance with the agreement with the Municipality of Postojna, even though it was cancelled a bad year ago. So in this part of these reasons you did not justify, nor can you conclude that the reason for its resolution was the alleged inappropriate rumours about the chief, because you dismissed him on 5 April in the late Friday afternoon hours, and the report was written a week later, on 12 April, and interestingly - the Chief of Staff, who proposed his discharge, received it a month later, that is only on 7 May this year. The second part of the questions concerns the abuse of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, where the serious violation is significantly greater and where, in some normal, regulated parliamentary democracy, a respected minister, these perceptions could not be avoided. We'd be freed, criminally incarcerated and processed, just as you said in one part of the answers. The law laying down the powers of the Security Intelligence Service is clear and unequivocal in Article 32. The Security Intelligence Service is to act on the basis of your instructions in accordance with Article 32(2). What does the second paragraph of Article 32 say? “Security tasks in the defence area are: detection, investigation and prevention of threats to the safety of certain persons.” In this case, who was threatened by investigating these alleged inappropriate rumors? What “jobs ” were threatened? “ facilities and environments managed by the Ministry and the Slovenian Armed Forces in or outside the country and information on the development or production of certain military weapons or equipment.” [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] Following this line, the ODS could not function. The following indent: “Investment of offences in accordance with the law” – there was no announcement, no suspicion of a crime service, nothing. Therefore, even after this indent, the ODS should not have worked. “Researching and proposing solutions for physical and technical protection” has nothing to do with what the operatives have been investigating. “Operational protection of certain persons, jobs, facilities and environments of particular importance to the defence.” I don't think Chief General Staff is part of this part, at least she wasn't threatened by alleged rumors. “Safety check of persons in accordance with the regulations and guidance of the military police in the management of certain security tasks under this law.” We also have the first paragraph of this Article, which discusses the intelligence and counter-intelligence tasks that include the collection, documentation and analysis of information and data relevant to the defence interests of the State or the protection of such data, in particular: “recognition and assessment of military and political security conditions and military capabilities outside the country of particular importance for the security of the State. The collection and evaluation of data on the situation in areas where members of the Slovenian Armed Forces also operate during the implementation of the obligations of international organisations or in the management of military service. Disclosure and prevention of the activities of military intelligence services and other bodies and organisations which endanger the defence interests of the State, the Slovenian Army or the Ministry.” The Minister-General, the investigation of alleged rumours within the Slovenian Armed Forces, not on the basis of Article 32(2), not only is it not possible, but it is unacceptable to act and to speak of a violation of the powers conferred by the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. If this were to happen beyond your knowledge, we would be objectively responsible and Mr Matijevic, Director of ODS, would be directly responsible. However, because this has happened not only with your knowledge, but on the basis of your guidance and instructions, you are not only objectively but also subjectively responsible, as these powers under the Defence Act do not have the Intelligence Security Service. And for this reason, I ask you: On what basis did the Intelligence Security Service conduct interviews, hearings with 25 members of the Slovenian Army at different levels? In this debate, despite its length and depth, I do not think we have the answers to some fundamental questions. Despite the Minister's long explanations, despite the fact that he used this trick with the closed session and so on, nothing new has been found. And there will be no misunderstanding. Mr Škerbinc, at the meeting of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, said very honestly and clearly what he was saying and how he spoke on 1 April 2019. And let me read this part again, because maybe it's a little bit controversial for someone, but not for someone who looks at things more broadly. This magnetogram is public and publicly accessible to all, so I can also conclude that this requirement for a closed meeting was totally unnecessary and a double waste of time. This is what Brigadier Miha Škerbinc said, among other things: “I never write my own speeches” has been read today, but it has to be read again, “and it is possible for a person to say something in passion, but I have then spoken to many people. You know, most of them heard me say something I know I said, because, once again, I didn't talk about her condition, I talked about how as a commander I didn't want to talk about it after the military, after the whole weekend was full of media, after it started talking through the military, and it's nice to talk, you know, after the military, to stop it. And I was talking about how embarrassing and if they see how difficult it is to be Chief of Staff in this country today, that's what I told the military that the chief also got sick, not that she broke, not that I don't know what it was that the chief got sick when she fought for their wages. That's what I said. And if you want more, and you can turn, Members and Members of Parliament against me, as the ODS has already done, I will also tell you. I said a sentence, I made an introduction to rumors, and then I said, now I'm gonna say what I know. I know the chief was sick, that she was a disease of a psychic nature, but the chief is now fully operational, she's back at work and work. And the only part is, I said the disease was of a psychic nature. Hang me. But I had no reason to doubt that this was the case on April 1st. I won't go into the details now, but I was then, and please, believe me, I'm sure that's the way it is and that the chief lives with it and that we move on together. But what conspiracy someone has seen in this and what demolition, and I don't know what else, again, about what I'm talking about, is how we have to stop talking about these things. What was, was, the chief is healthy and disgraceful is how ugly in this country is being dealt with publicly with by the first soldier in the military on the basis of his medical condition.” That's it. For someone inappropriate speaking, for someone the honest word of a high-ranking military officer who has proved in the past that he is willing to give his life for this country. And I'd do it in the future if I had to. And that's why I'm gonna say it again. In his words, I believe much more than in the words of a policy that has changed how many political parties that people no longer trust and do not believe, which is why he also received a handful of votes in an elected district. These are the facts. In particular, I do not believe the words of Minister Erjavac because these claims, which have been documented in detail in the text of the interpolation, have failed to contradict. He couldn't object. He talked about how Brigadier Škerbinc worked past his directions, for which there is no written document that was given to a college about which there is no record. Then it was said today that this college was not at all and so on. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, so who do you believe? So who do you believe? Someone who, through his entire professional career, acted in accordance with orders and never violated them, even when his heart was sore because he couldn't go to help people at the time of the year 2014, but waited for orders to do so, or for someone who became President of Desus, while still being a member of another political party and manipulating the public that he was paying the bills and that's why the LDS paid the membership fee? Not to mention many other statements that say that Minister Erjavec is, unfortunately, completely unreliable and unconvincing at this point, unfortunately does not. And the only motive not to draw the line under his responsibility is just — and now I will say — the motive for maintaining power, if you want, of your chairs, because you think that when Karl Erjavec goes away, it will be the end of this government. She won't be here. She won't be there. There are hundreds of cranes in this country that are significantly more capable than Minister Erjavac, and don't worry if that's what you're worried about. Given everything that has been said, given the dual role of the Left in today's debate and that there will not be any vote today, it is clear that interpretation at the end cannot succeed, because we know that at least 46 votes are required under our legislation, but we do have such laws. I believe that one day we will be able to join forces and change the constitution in the sense that the mandate holder will also have the right to appoint and dismiss ministers, which is the only thing normal, but that is how it is. It will not succeed in a formal sense, this interpolation. Those who wanted to hear the facts and the evidence, those who listened to today's debate, I think they could have made an impression on who was speaking the truth and who was lying and lying. Once again, in the Defence Act, the Intelligence Security Service didn't have any authority to do what she did. If so, these procedures could be carried out in a different way than in the framework of the ODS investigation under Article 32. There was no basis for that. There's no doubt that the Intelligence Service has been abused. What's worrying is, at least for me personally, probably anyone else in this country, there is no guarantee that there will be no abuse in the future. Where's the guarantee that they won't follow any of you? The technical options, the sanctions of no one, the Director, because he abused her, will not be suspended, nor will the Minister today. I don't know if some of you understand how dangerous you play with fire. We had a similar situation in this country 15 years ago, a little differently, but also the abuse of another SOVE intelligence service. That's when things cleared up. We believed that we would never again be in this country, in a democratic Slovenia, a witness to the abuse of secret services. How wrong we were. This has happened, this is happening before our eyes, even more so, you do not want to take responsibility for these actions, not with respect to the minister, not with regard to the others who have participated in these works. The responsibility of today goes from Minister Erjavac, ladies and gentlemen, to your shoulders, which you will clearly sweep under the carpet of inappropriate and illegal use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister of Defence and the representative of the motioner of the interpretation will be given the floor. Mr Erjavec has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u170	Once again, I would like to point out that this interpretation does not have any basis for the Ministry of Defence's Intelligence Security Service not being abused, but that the Intelligence Security Service staff have worked in accordance with the law and in accordance with the powers and powers. With regard to the unlawful discharge of the Commander of the Force, I am convinced that it has been carried out lawfully, because it has been appointed and resolved in the same manner as all the commanders of the Force Command in the history of the Slovenian Army. As far as shooting Pocket is concerned, it's the decision of the 24 government. 1. Quite clear — the conclusion there states that there is no shooting with a calibre higher than 60 millimetres. As far as trust is concerned, I believe that I do not enjoy trust by the opposition, so this fourth point, probably as far as the opposition is concerned, is true. It's important to me that I do what is responsible, carefully. That way, I will continue to work as Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. There is another speaker, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u172	Thank you. The only coalition party that was honest today was Alenka Bratušek's party when her representative said we would support the minister because we have to, because that's what the coalition contract says. And that's true. And also a lot of MPs, but I'm fair, I'm not going to list names, coalition names, he told me, we're only going to support him because we have to, because this government has to exist for a while. But colleagues and colleagues, the thing that isn't set for, but is made up against, a government that isn't made up of some kind of program, because of some content, but is made up against someone, such a government can't be successful. Minister Karl Erjavec in such a government cannot be successful. Moreover, this time the minister used the abuse of military intelligence. Earlier, colleague Alenka Jeraj read the opinion of Mir Cerar, Prime Minister of the Government in the previous term, when he said that Minister Weber had exceeded his powers when, pursuant to Article 32 of the first paragraph of the third indent, he ordered the ODS to investigate what the sale of Telekom Slovenije would mean for our national security. The third indent of paragraph 1 shall contain, detect and prevent the activities of intelligence services, military organisations and other bodies and organisations which endanger the defence interests of the State, the Slovenian military or the Ministry. And I am sure that if there had been an intervention against Minister Webro in the past mandate, today the same Members who said, "if you had argued better, we might have supported us, we would have supported the resolution of the Veber because he really violated the legislation" if they had put me in the interpellation, we would have also defended the minister. You have written in your coalition contracts to defend the minister. In the constitution, however, interpellation is a possible instrument. So, in coalition contracts, it's kind of de facto already written in advance that in some way, the interpretation is negative and yes, imagine that the interpretation is a clear violation, that the interpretation of the text, where the apparent violation of the minister is proven, you have in the coalition contract in one way or another written that the interpretation is not supported. Someone left because of the sandwich, someone left because of some saxophones, someone left because he wrote some rude email, and here and there a tweet, someone who doesn't even know why he left, Minister of Health, went to see Leben. But the minister, where we specifically wrote what was wrong, whose articles he had violated, remains. As my colleague Chernač said, by confirming today that he remains, you carry all these abuses on your own responsibility, on your own shoulders. Typical of what we've been listening to and listening to is that interpolation doesn't make sense. How meaningful the interpretations are and how some of you imagine responsibility, I don't know now, I think there's only SD here from who they were then. If I'm not mistaken, you interpolated Minister Dragotine Mate because the security guard killed someone. Whether it was a Global affair or something, some kind of discotheque, if I recall. It says what someone might say about the interpellation candidates because they're interpolating the minister because the security guard of a private company did something. But such interpretations have also taken place. Do you imagine that today, God forbid, there's a fight going on at some disco club and a security guard kills someone? What would you say if you put me through an interview with Minister Poklukkar? That we're out of our minds. But that's what you were doing back then, and it wasn't a problem, it was easy. And this time, we've come up with some strong arguments, and we've brought black to the white conclusions of the KNOVS. If we agree to this argument, colleagues and colleagues, in the KNOVS, there is a majority in the opposition, then let someone tell me only one argument, because you say “the KNOVS cellars will not be taken into account because the opposition has a majority”, why citizens and citizens, someone who has elected one of the parties who is not in the government, would easily say no, but I will not comply with this law because it has been accepted by the coalition majority anyway. It's the same thing. If a body accepts something, if Parliament accepts something, if a working body of the National Assembly accepts something, it is accepted by the majority who is in the working body. And if you feel bad and don't accept things because the opposition is mostly represented in the two commissions, imagine how we feel because you have a majority in all the other committees. And no one's talking about it, and that's what the coalition majority has accepted, and we're not gonna take that into account. That's not how it works. Parliamentary democracy cannot work this way. And parliamentary democracy cannot work if a minister uses military intelligence to discredit a pro-Western officer after seeing that he is so deeply confused and that the abuse of the ODS is the only saving plant. I don't know what else we should bring here, which papers to see that this was an abuse of the Intelligence Service, that it wasn't a legal solution, that the minister lied and cheated as far as Pochka was concerned. Today, even by the minister, we have heard that you can use mortar without firing it. I hope that on the next visit to Počko or any other range, Mr Minister, I suggest you arrange such a visit to show us how to shoot a mortar in a way that is not fired, because I would really like to see it, and I will record it to see it. In short, the Slovenian Army will continue to fall. There's no way out if Karl Erjavec stays the Secretary of Defense. We also know that there is no way that any of these ministers will ever hear what Jure Leben said: “Despite my conscience is clear, it is irresponsible of me as Minister to indirectly threaten the credibility of the department I am leading.” As of today, the non-creditability of the Department, led by Minister Karl Erjavec, is continuing precisely because of you, the coalition MPs. Poor travel for the Slovenian country, even worse travel for the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-21-SDZ8-Izredna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the floor, but since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, do you wish to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of Article 71? Because I see that there is no interest, we are closing the debate and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. Interpellations propose to the assembly that, following the discussion, the following decision be taken: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, extend its trust to the Minister of Defence, Karl Viktor Erjavac, and discharge him from office. His office as Minister is hereby terminated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 39. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that the Minister for Defence has not been voted on. / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
