ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Dejan jedan, Jelka godec, mag. Marko Koprivc, Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec, Dr. Franc Trček from 12 o'clock on, Iva Dimic from 12 o'clock on, Felice Žiža, Ferenc Horvát from 18 o'clock on, mag. Matthew Tonin from 16:00 on, Jernej Vrtovec from 16:00 on, Tadeja Šuštar from 17.30 on, Luka Mesec, Željko Cigler, Franc Jurša from 16:00 on, only Bevk from 16:00 on. Representatives of the Government were also invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 15 November 2019 with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the operation of the devices. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. On the proposal of the recommendation in connection with the protection of drinking water in the area of the Ljubljana Aquarius. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this proposal, the group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Anžet Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u2	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, Members and Members of Parliament! Greetings to the Minister for Environment and Space! In the developed world, but not in the case of healthy farmers, it is also true that you do not take waste water above your drinking water reservoir or that you do not store sewage above your own well. However, the Ljubljana Municipality over the water protection coverage of Kleče, which offers water to the Ljubljana boiler, is almost 300,000 people and residents as well as visitors to Ljubljana, building sewers of the central cleaning plant. According to civil initiatives and non-governmental environmental organisations Alpe Adria Green, the project is implemented on the basis of an inappropriate spatial act, namely in the water protection area from Broda to Ježica. Alpe Adria Green, who placed the City Municipality of Ljubljana at the top of the blacklist for 2018 in the selection of the most environmentally friendly personality of the year, prepared a rather extensive analysis some time ago, citing: “The threat of contamination of aquifers from channel C0 is objectively present. The damage to channel C0 and the leaking of hazardous wastewater into the aquifer would weaken its water purification function from the Sava River. Ljubljana could lose this irreplaceable water source and lose drinking water.” It is concerned that the Municipality of Ljubljana builds this sewer without any clear plan, on a route that is already on the look, after orthophoto shots completely inappropriate, not on the shortest line, but through the managers, which further increases the risk of damage on the network; and that it builds on the basis of a building permit which experts believe was obtained by fraud. Environmentalists point out that the construction of the facility is at an active geological turning point where earthquakes are a constant in longer periods of time, which is also confirmed by the geological report attached to this project and notes that the route is not the most suitable for the construction of such a facility. Experts in the field of municipal engineering, geomorphology, environmental protection, hydrogeology and other related professions have also assessed that the envisaged implementation does not allow for the complete impermeability of the fecal canal; therefore, drinking water is seriously threatened in the future if this project is completed. This is particularly in the light of the fact that, on 17 November 2016, the Constitution was voted in addition to article 70a, among others, the current Minister of Environment and Space; it reads: "Everyone has the right to drinking water. Water resources are publicly good at governance. Water resources serve as a priority and sustainable supply of drinking water to the population.” If drinking water is contaminated by pollution due to an unwise project, Article 70a of the Constitution is violated. The right to clean drinking water is a constitutional category, so all activities related to it go beyond the purpose, capacity or competence of the Municipality of Ljubljana or local authorities and are a matter of wider public interest, i.e. the matter of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the mentioned population of the Municipality of Ljubljana, as well as all those who work in or are only visiting the municipality, they are entitled to worry about irregularities in the process which increases the lack of confidence in the construction of this project and also in the well-meaning nature of this project. The owners of agricultural land that oppose the sewerage channel C0 through the water protection zone are, in fact, the last defender of the constitutional protection of the right to drinking water. Practically every procedure in the implementation of this project demonstrates that the infringements, the failure of certain institutions, have not done their part or have violated their normative foundations and allowed and allowed the project to continue. As I said, although the sewerage is supposed to run over water cover, this project, according to Arsa, does not, in the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Space in the past, need an environmental impact assessment. Understand who can. This project does not respect private property either. The contractor, as a bulldozer, hunts private lands where he has no official right, works outside the permit of the construction permit, which limits the belt to six metres, freely disposes of a 16-metre space, leaving behind a dead end with stones on fertile agricultural land. However, those individuals who defend their property are at risk with the help of the judiciary with EUR 5,000 of compensation for each day when they want to preserve their own land. Let me tell you what the Ministry of Environment and Space has answered in one of the questions in connection with channel C0 and its location, and I quote: "However, we can assess that the route chosen poses a potential risk to the water source, as it runs directly through a narrow water protection area with a strict security regime of 2A and also touches the most severe water protection area." Official opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Official opinion of the Ministry of the Environment. I wonder why nothing has been done so far. It may have been waiting for this meeting, perhaps waiting for the initiative of the National Assembly to adopt appropriate decisions on the basis of which the Ministry can then act. In my opinion, it should and could take action on its own initiative, but as a Member, as an elector of the people, I would like to do everything in my power and what is in our power to provide the right basis for action. We therefore propose the four conclusions which we endorsed on the Committee last week. I must admit that it has been a very constructive debate that Members of all parliamentary groups except the Left who were missing who apologized have highlighted the real dilemmas and the real themes. I hope that this spirit will prevail today in this Chamber and that we will confirm the following conclusions: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within its powers, immediately ensure respect for the constitutional and inalienable right to private property and the protection of all sources of drinking water as a constitutionally protected category by preparing appropriate legal bases and regulations for the enforcement of article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Next; the National Assembly recommends to the Ministry of Environment and Space that, within its powers and on the basis of legal remedies permitted by the current legislation, it immediately adopts all measures to ensure that it retains or stops the construction of the C0 sewerage channel on the disputed foot of Brod of Ježica, within the framework of the required project documentation and environmental impact assessment. Further; the National Assembly recommends that the Ministry of Environment and Space, in the event of any irregularities identified resulting from the review of the procedure and other supervisory procedures, initiate appropriate criminal, disciplinary and civil liability procedures. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Ministry of Environment and Space to verify the correctness of the procedures for placing the pipeline route into space. Dear Members and Members, Minister-in-Charge; the time for words and omissions has passed; now is the time for action. I believe that if we confirm these conclusions and confirm them with a large majority, the Ministry of Environment and Space will also act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. On 15 November 2019, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 22nd emergency meeting. 11. 2019 as a parent working body, the proposal for a recommendation concerning the protection of drinking water in the area of the Ljubljana aquifer was submitted by a group of Members and Members with first signed by Daniel Krivec to the National Assembly for the convening of an extraordinary meeting. The amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2 were tabled within the time limit. During the meeting, amendments were also tabled by the coalition groups for the new 3rd and 4th recommendations. On behalf of the applicant, the representative of the SDS Group provided an additional explanation to the proposal for a recommendation. In its implementation, as today, he highlighted several reasons for the dispute over the construction of sewer water through the water protection coverage of Kleča, carried out by the Municipality of Ljubljana. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments of the SDS Group of Members duly address the comments they had on the proposal for a recommendation. The representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space pointed out that the investor had not yet obtained all the building permits. According to data derived from controls carried out by the Environment and Spatial Inspectorate, the investor shall carry out works in areas where legal building permits have been obtained. In areas where construction permits are not yet in place, construction must not be carried out. In the past, the Inspectorate also carried out some of the controls on the construction of the canal itself, which showed that the construction was carried out in accordance with the implementation projects and the construction permits issued; and it did not find any irregularities. He stressed that the Ministry had immediately ordered the revision of all procedures following warnings of irregularities in the implementation of the project. The audit highlighted the suspicion of irregularities in decisions and bad practices in procedures, in particular in terms of traceability and control, and the Minister has already issued instructions on how to improve practices. A review of the procedure for placing the project in the premises and the legal review of the legality of the decisions issued shall be carried out. A review of the technical solutions of the project was also requested and the tender will need to be repeated due to the poor response and the inappropriateness of the tenders. In their presentation, the representative of Alpe Adria Green and the representative of the countrymen referred to the applicant's discussion and expressed opposition to the construction of the sewerage channel through the water protection area. The debate reflected the single support of MEPs and Members to the proposal for a recommendation, since care for drinking water is a priority, so everything must be done in this project to prevent the threat of a water protection zone from Brod to Ježica. In view of the numerous indications of various irregularities in procedures, it is essential that State institutions revise these procedures in accordance with their competences and find appropriate solutions for further implementation when identifying possible errors. The issue of criminal, disciplinary and civil liability and the correctness of the pipeline route procedures were also raised. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to points 1 and 2 of the SDS Group and to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups for new points 3 and 4 of the recommendations. He then voted on all parts of the proposal together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The conservation and protection of national wealth and resources, the highest possible protection of water resources, public interest and the common good are key principles embedded in the functioning of the Government and in the functioning of the Ministry of Environment and Space. By writing down the right to drinking water into the Slovenian Constitution in 2016, this right in our country was protected at the highest level. The legislation already in force on environmental and water protection already lays down measures and procedures to ensure that planned interventions do not have a temporary or permanent impact on the deterioration of the water regime or water condition. Where such interventions are planned, water consent or opinion should be obtained in accordance with the Water Act, which is issued by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water after a thorough examination of the project. For water bodies intended for public drinking water supply, a water protection area shall be established by a government regulation to limit or prohibit activities which may, in quantitative or qualitative terms, threaten the state of water resources. In these areas, landowners may also be obliged to implement or allow the enforcement of measures protecting the quantity or quality of water resources. The project that triggered today's debate in the National Assembly is a project to decommission and clean waste water in the Ljubljana Field aquifer area. The project is already under way. The preparation and coordination of the project between the three municipalities, Ljubljana, Medvodí and Vodice, the Ministry of Environment and Space as intermediate bodies, the SVRK as managing bodies and the Jaspers Commission took place in 2015 and 2016. The application for co-financing was confirmed by the Ministry of Environment and Space and the SVRK, an independent expert review of the application. Before being forwarded to the European Commission, the Jaspers Commission also carried out its work. On the basis of the review of the application and the additional clarifications requested in August 2017, the European Commission confirmed the project by issuing an implementing decision approving a financial contribution for a major waste water removal and treatment project in the Ljubljana Field aquifer area. The Ministry of Environment and Space then issued a decision on co-financing of the project in November 2017. In October 2017, the municipalities forwarded the investment programme and the conclusions on the validation of the project. The budget then opened a development programme plan and the project was introduced into the e-MA information system. The project is divided into three parts and is in different stages of implementation. Contracts with contractors for the first and second parts of the project are signed; the control of procurement procedures has been carried out; co-financing contracts for the first and second parts of the project are also signed. Construction for the first part of the project is under way, for the second part is a project to obtain a building permit, a partial building permit is obtained and preparatory works are under way. Construction on individual parts of the third part of the project also started. Part of the project is carried out through the Ljubljana aquifer, where a water protection area and water protection regimes are defined by the Water Protection Area Regulation for the waterborne body of the Ljubljana field aquifer. With regard to the construction of wastewater pipelines, the Regulation lays down the construction conditions in the area of the envisaged sewerway C0. The construction of waste water pipelines shall be permitted in water protection areas 2A, 2B, 3A and 3B, provided that in the process of issuing the water consent for construction the effects on the water regime and the water body condition are verified and the water consent is given; however, the pipeline by which the wastewater discharges into the watercourse must be drained shall be carried out in such a way as to prevent leakage into groundwater or coverage; the watertightness of internal sewerage shall be verified by standardised procedures before use; and the public sewerage network shall be tested in accordance with standardised procedures prior to use. In 2018, the Slovenian Directorate for Water issued an opinion on the impact of the construction on the water regime and water condition. Water consensus and opinion are legally binding. However, the construction of the pipeline is permissible only on the basis of a legally binding building permit. One of the key material conditions for obtaining a building permit is the right to build, as shown in the procedure for issuing a building permit in principle as a property or official right. According to the information available to us, the Municipality of Ljubljana, as an investor, has not yet obtained all the building permits for the entire pipeline. According to data derived from the administrative controls of the Environment and Space Inspectorate, the investor works in areas where legal building permits are obtained. The investor cannot and must not perform works where the building permit has not yet been obtained. The Environment and Space Inspectorate has already carried out several controls on the construction of the C0 linkage channel, which have shown that the construction is carried out in accordance with the implementation projects and the building permits issued. He didn't find out about the irregularities. Out of a total of six controls, four inspection procedures have already been stopped, two are still under way. The Government is aware of the importance of the issue under consideration in terms of real-equity relations with respect to individual land, where or where the route of the sewerage channel is established, as well as the issue of public interest in terms of environmental impact assessment. As soon as the Ministry of Environment and Space had been alerted to the suspicion of irregularities in the implementation of the C0 Channel project, it responded and approached the activities we intend to explore the whole process. It is necessary to determine whether there have been such irregularities in the processes of placing in the premises and production of the documentation, which could actually result in a risk to Ljubljana's aquifer and drinking water for the people of Ljubljana. I ordered a revision of the procedures led by the Ministry, a review of the technical solutions of the project, a review of the procedure for placing the project in the premises and a legal review of the legality of the decisions issued. The audit highlighted the suspicion of irregularities in decisions and the suspicion of bad practices in procedures, in particular in terms of traceability and control; therefore, I have already issued instructions to the authorities on how to improve these practices and how to improve them. In order to take care of the aquifer, the Ministry carried out a public order to review the technical solutions of channel C0. Unfortunately, the call was not successful because of the poor response and the inappropriateness of the tenders received, so we will repeat it. A review of the project placement procedure and the legal review of the legality of the decisions issued are already under way. On the basis of the findings, decisions will be taken which will be responsible and legal. We estimate that it is still available for some time because works on the entire route are not carried out because the investor has not yet obtained all the building permits. Environmental care and water care of drinking water is a key responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. To work according to the rules laid down by the laws, as well. These rules must apply to all. And if irregularities occur in the work of the ministry, municipalities or other bodies in the past, we will all be defined according to exactly the same standards. At the same time, we are also aware of the responsibility for budgetary resources, as European and national financial resources are important for the project. We will also try to protect these funds. But once again, in accordance with all the rules, with all the standards and good practice, our ministry is actually implementing all the decisions adopted last Friday by the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment, which are proposed for adoption at today's meeting of the National Assembly. However, if the conclusions are taken at today's meeting of the National Assembly, this will be an important support to the Government and the Ministry in carrying out all the activities aimed at thoroughly verifying the procedures already carried out and establishing the actual situation. All due care is also taken to monitor the procedures that are still in progress at the moment, because, as I have already said, the investor for the entire route has not yet obtained all the building permits. The work at the Ministry of Environment and Space is carried out proactively. Our expertise and support are also available to all congregations and investors. All our activities are aimed at protecting water and eliminating doubts. We are particularly concerned that procedures and decisions would not make a mistake that, despite good intentions, could have negative effects because of haste or legal or procedural irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, minister, secretary of state, nice greetings to everyone! Water is essential for the life of every living creature and the priceless good that must be provided to all. In Slovenia, the right to drinking water has been a human right since 2016, when we Members unanimously or without a vote have confirmed the Constitution's completion, which is protected at the highest legal level. In the SMC, we believe today that the inclusion of the right to drinking water in the Constitution is extremely important for our country. We note, however, that today, on the basis of this addition to the Constitution, matters under the jurisdiction of local communities are increasingly included on the agenda of the National Assembly. Today we will discuss the protection of drinking water in the area of the Ljubljana aquifer. In particular, it is a project for the construction of sewer water, the investor of which is the Municipality of Ljubljana. Therefore, the question arises whether this question falls within the competence of the National Assembly at all. In the SMC, it seems important that we discuss this issue mainly from the point of view of drinking water as a constitutionally protected right. Although the recommendations are locally coloured, clean drinking water is colorless, odourless, and flavorless. On the home committee, we have also shown Members that when we talk about drinking water protection, the color of our political views is not really important. With regard to the construction project of the C0 sewerage channel, a number of warnings from local people and environmental organisations are being drawn that only project planning was inappropriate and its implementation was extremely problematic. Even in the SMC, we wonder how it is possible for someone to build sewerage over a aquifer, with no environmental impact assessment ever carried out. Everyone can see that something stinks in here. We are therefore, of course, pleased that the current leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Space has already taken the lead in clarifying all open issues in this regard. The procedural audit itself has already been completed and has demonstrated that decisions and bad practices are suspected of being incorrect in the process. The Ministry has therefore also ordered a review of the placement procedures and a legal review of the legality of the decisions issued. Unfortunately, however, the call for a review of the technical solutions of the project was unsuccessful and will have to be repeated by the Ministry. As we see, the Ministry of Environment and Space has already taken concrete steps towards clarifying all the circumstances regarding the construction of the C0 sewerage. The SMC also supported the recommendations proposed on the parental committee. Moreover, we have proposed two additional recommendations to the coalition groups, as we estimate that the project is problematic in several aspects and that there is also a need to be responsible for possible irregularities. Members of the SMC will also support the recommendations proposed this time. We are confident that the Ministry of Environment and Space will give additional impetus to find out without any doubt whether there has been an irregularity in the planning and implementation of the sewage project itself. Safe drinking water is of paramount importance and the task of each local community is to protect each source of drinking water from pollution. Let's not forget, prevention is better than curative, and in this case, that's how it works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented to us by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The construction of the sewer is carried out through a aquifer from which drinking water is supplied to our largest city in Ljubljana. As is the custom in large infrastructure projects, we are also faced with a policy of enforcement in this case. The solutions proposed are examined superficially, poorly, similar to alternative solutions if ever examined. But we ask ourselves about the appropriateness of the solution only when construction is already under way, when swamps and rollers are already grinding. Let's see. The construction of the sewer water C0 is broken down into several parts and a special building permit must be obtained for each of them. Construction is already under way in areas where the permit is obtained, while other parts are waiting and it is not even clear whether an environmental impact assessment will be necessary to obtain the building permit. In one part, the building permit was issued for a non-requisitionable object which does not need an assessment; it was later converted to a demanding object and there is still no assessment. Building on works where the project is already under way creates pressure on decision-makers in other construction permits processes, unless you stop the project now when almost everything is done; or you will not stop the construction now that almost EUR 14 million has been paid out of the state budget for parts; you will not stop the construction now that European funds have already been approved. This is the case, a typical example of enforcement policy, not just in this case. This folklore is home to all major infrastructure projects, from the construction of the sixth block of the thermal power plant Šostanj to investments in the second block of the nuclear power plant, from the construction of highways to the second track. But this time it's something else. The sewerage line is built over the strictest water protection area and it is possible that this could endanger the uninterrupted supply of the capital with drinking water. Water crosses the aquifer, this is the underwater flow of Sava with inflows that represent a supply of drinking water of exceptional quality, which is generally not necessary to clean and is of great importance for the entire Ljubljana urban region. In order to cross the aquifer, superstandard materials and technology are used to increase construction costs. However, the risk of long-term aquifer contamination cannot be fully addressed in the event of natural and other accidents or possible errors in the construction itself. Due to numerous complaints and concerns, two project reviews were launched, namely the revision of the Arso Decision, which did not require an environmental assessment, and the review of the project documentation for the construction of channel C0. It is absurd that the Ministry of Environment and Space decided to review the project documentation as an additional precaution only after construction work for the construction of this sewer water had already begun. While we can welcome the decision on the review of the dossier, several questions arise immediately in relation to this review. How is it that the ILO, with all agencies and directorates, from the Environment Agency to the Water Directorate, is not able to carry out these reviews on its own? Not only that, more than half a year after the decision was taken, they were not able to find a private person who would do it instead; and the machines continue uninterruptedly. And i.e., the main sewers through the strictest water protection area are being built further. And what happens when the review is finally ready? Will there be any effects of this review if it is found that the construction of this sewer water is actually potentially harmful?Oh, my God! Could the buildings that have been built by now have collapsed?Oh, my God! Will anyone be responsible for spending millions on something that might eventually prove to be dangerous to the aquifer?Oh, my God! The questions are rhetorical and the answers can be provided on the basis of developments relating to the largest infrastructure projects in the past. Concerned about the construction of the mentioned sewer water in Levica, we addressed a written question to the Minister of the Environment and Space, asking: Was the possibility of increasing the cleaning capacity of the ship or of building a new one at the same or a nearby location in order to reduce the need to build a canal through the aquifer? That's a possibility we've been talking about. In the optional analysis of the feasibility study prepared by the beneficiaries of the project – Municipality of Ljubljana, Municipality of Medvod and Municipality of Vodice – four variants were considered for the first part of the project to upgrade the municipal waste water system in the municipalities of Medvod and Vodice and to build the connecting channel C0 in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Three of these included reconstruction and expansion of the CN Brod cleaning plant. The options considered were compared according to financial criteria, environmental criteria and criteria in terms of climate change. Under all these criteria, the construction of sewer water across the strictest water protection area was more favourable than alternatives. Understand if you can. Although we do not have accurate data, from a financial point of view, we can rightly question that the closure of one cleaning plant and the construction of long sewage water to another is a more cost-effective decision. What about environmental criteria? Interesting. In fact, this is the same ministry which defends the choice of a variant that provides for the separation of fecal waters through water cover, and has ordered the revision of the project documentation of this project. As regards climate change, however, the question arises how the closure of existing cleaning facilities and the construction of new sewers has a smaller carbon footprint than upgraded old installations. A set of new issues, therefore, which are directly called for after further audits. There's confusion and questionable solutions on the project. From the fact that the upgrading of the existing cleaning plant is environmentally less effective than the decommissioning of fecal water through the water protection area; from the construction of i.e., water instead of water that would go on the shortest route from point A to point B with the greatest possible inclination, the possibility of pollution would at least be reduced if it had not already completely prevented. Despite the incompatibilities, despite all these uncertainties, one thing is crystal clear. As long as all of this is not cleared up, the continuation of the construction of sewage over the strictest water protection area must be stopped; not on an individual part, but in full. The public interest in the protection of clean drinking water is simply too large. And only if it turns out that there's really no water, but there's really no possibility that the fecal water from this sewer can contaminate the water supply, can it continue to build, only then. Therefore, in Levica, we will recommend that the construction of the disputed water supply be retained until all the required documentation is obtained. We believe that it is a good recommendation, which should have direct material effects, if taken into account. We will also support the recommendation that the Ministry of Environment and Space should initiate appropriate criminal, disciplinary and civil liability procedures in the event of any irregularities identified resulting from the review of the procedure and other supervisory procedures. We will also support the recommendation that the Ministry of Environment and Space verify the correctness of the pipeline route procedures. These recommendations are also clear and concrete and have direct material effects if they are taken into account. We could also support part of the recommendation concerning the recommendation to the Government to protect all sources of drinking water. It can if this is not related to the need for the Government to ensure respect, quote, “constitutional and non-alienable private property”. The proposal for this recommendation would not have any material effects, since the government is interpreting it in its own way and will in any case claim that it is already doing so. In light of this, this recommendation is irrelevant. Another time. Private property, yes, is the “holy cow” of our constitutional order, has its limitations even under the Constitution. When it is acquired and consumed, its environmental, social and environmental function must be ensured. And yes, on behalf of the public interest, the state of the private owner may also crack down. The recommendation here reduces material effects, preserves only the ideological effects of the fetishisation of private property, which in the capitalist economy is the basis for the exploitation of man by man. It is essential that the construction of sewerage through the most stringent water protection area is stopped until it is clear beyond doubt that the project, as it is designed, will never be able to endanger one of the largest and most important sources of drinking water in the country. It is essential that, if irregularities and illegalities are found, those responsible also have criminal responsibility. Swelling for the protection of private property is simply unnecessary ideology, which in no way helps to clear up the whole matter, and to the extent that it is unnecessary to look away from the essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u12	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Christian Democrats support the development of municipalities. We are committed to economic development and a clean environment. Both require quality municipal equipment and waste water treatment, and it is important to comply with environmental requirements. We don't think the sewers belong to the water source area. In this regard, it is particularly problematic that the Municipality of Ljubljana has not obtained all the necessary administrative permits to carry out the construction works of channel C0 or has tried to avoid an integrated environmental impact assessment. In the case of Ljubljana, we believe that an analysis of both options – the construction of the C0 sewerage or the Celovska road – should be carried out in the framework of the pre-investment design. Since the management of the Municipality of Ljubljana has voluntarily opted for variant C0 through the Ljubljana aquifer, we believe that an integrated environmental impact assessment should be carried out for this route of construction of the sewer pipe. In Novi Slovenije – the Christian Democratic Center we are very concerned about tips that show that the Municipality of Ljubljana has deliberately bypassed an integrated environmental impact assessment in the design of the project. This threatens the implementation of the project and clean drinking water for almost 300,000 people in the capital. Such project management is unacceptable and is strongly condemned in Novi Slovenija. We support the sewage project, but it is imperative to choose a technical solution that will not endanger clean drinking water. Instead, there are additional problems with the construction of a sewer in the Ljubljana aquifer area. Let me list them below. The canalization goes through the most important aquifer, where water coverage is for as many as 300,000 inhabitants. In the event of spillage of fecal water from the sewage pipe where the soils are permeable, there would be direct leakage into the aquifer and thus severe contamination of drinking water. The problem is also a very high level of soil water. In fact, the sewerage is two metres below the surface and several times a year the groundwater in this area is high. For this reason, the sewage pipe would be underwater several times a year. The terrain is also geomechanically unstable, which means that they may be landowners. The great problem is also the unregulated consent of landowners. The sewerage pipe was carried out on public roads because there was no need to seek the consent of private owners. This is a valuation and would be faster to perform, and on the other hand, the sewer has a lot of fractures and is set up like a snake — a zigzag. And that's embarrassing, because all the breaks are potential critical points, and they can leak fecal water. There are also intentions that, in obtaining the building permit, the Municipality of Ljubljana has lost the entire project. In part, the project divided the project so that it was not necessary to obtain and produce an integrated environmental impact assessment required for such major projects. In carrying out the works, operators encountered new problems. Public roads are narrow and the Municipality of Ljubljana has already begun to interfere with neighbouring lands, where there is no regulated service or consent of owners. In view of the irregularities exposed, the Municipality of Ljubljana has taken action because of public pressure, which does not solve the problem. Under the sewers, they added a fishing channel to catch possible fecal discharges. The problem with this canal is that it's allowed to be concrete because it's in the aquifer buffer belt. As many irregularities as are taking place in this project cannot be counted from the misuse of a building permit obtained unlawfully to the lack of respect for property rights and the lack of operation of an inspection. There are several million € of grants from European funds to be received by the Municipality of Ljubljana if it manages to build a sewerage channel within two years. Again, the question arises whether the power of capital will prevail on awareness and long-term environmental attitudes. The C0 Channel project would be contrary to the European Directive and the Regulation of the European Parliament, as in the event of construction in this sensitive agricultural area along the Sava River and in the immediate vicinity of Klej, a large quantity of waste water would be retained and the risks to aquifer and groundwater pollution would therefore be too high. The City Committee of Nova Slovenije Ljubljana was the first to draw attention to these shortcomings and to request a change of projects within the competent council committee. In New Slovenia, we believe that quality drinking water is something that must be a priority for all of us. Our drinking water is among the highest quality. Water from Klecz after the testimony of employees does not need any chemical or technical treatment before pumping into the water network. In New Slovenia, we believe that it should now be the priority of all politicians and citizens to maintain and prevent construction on this site. We also believe that construction needs to be stopped immediately until further economic damage, especially on land and possible recovery of European funds, occurs. The C0 channel is not needed at all because the appropriate alternatives so far are much more environmentally sound than the current route. The blurring of the facts is also made up of statements by the director of Voka Snag Krištof Mlakar that this channel will mean the separation of waste water from new connections. New connections do not connect at all to this channel, but to the old network, because they are within populated areas. At the same time, in New Slovenia, we wonder how it is possible to obtain environmental consent for such a large channel, but not for the expansion of the cemetery in Shentvid and Stožice; nor for the glowing burials. They must not move the wall at the cemetery because of the alleged impact on the groundwater. On the other hand, they allow the construction of a sewer pipe through a aquifer for almost 300,000 people in Ljubljana. Clearly, the right to safe drinking water was enshrined in the Constitution, and that is where we remained. In the New Slovenia Group, we will recommend the provision of constitutional right to drinking water for all citizens of Ljubljana and to stop the construction of channel C0 until all administrative permits are obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is directly related to the topic that we see in the SAB as particularly important. At the initiative of our party, we registered the right to drinking water in 2016 in the Constitution. We knew how important it was to protect water resources from privatization and that water supply to the population must have an absolute advantage over other water use. We live in times that require us to protect water and its right at the highest possible level. What seems to be self-evident today may be a problem of exceptional proportions tomorrow. And if something is self-evident to us, it does not mean that our craftsmen will too, especially if we know that in 2030 the demand for drinking water will exceed its availability. It took more than two years of work to record the right to drinking water in the Constitution. But that's not the end of the story. Since then, three years have passed, but the legislation that will fully clarify constitutional changes is not yet on the table. This means that the rules are not being implemented as they should be. That is why in the SAB Group, we want this area to be settled as soon as possible. The right to drinking water is inseparably linked to the protection of water resources. The debate on the protection of water protection areas has particularly taken place in the wider area of Ljubljana during the pre-election activities for the 2018 local elections. Because it is no secret that the people of Ljubljana drink quality water – they can be proud of reliable resources that will also provide water to future generations. Access to drinking water is inseparably linked to the collection and processing of waste water. Waste water is not only fecal, but also meteoric water, industrial waste and the like. Let me add that the condition for connection to the sewage network is always provided by the operator, in which case Voka. And the operator is the one who, in certain cases, for example industry, requires the prior treatment of waste water before being released into the sewage system. In the heart of the debate we are going to have today, the project of decommissioning and cleaning of waste water in the Ljubljana Field aquifer area is implemented by the Ljubljana Municipality. This is a project approved by the European Commission in August 2017, estimated at more than €110 million, which includes the construction of a new central cleaning plant, the renovation and upgrading of the sewage network in the capital and agglomeration. The project is marked by a series of irregularities that I will not take into account in more detail at this point, as my predecessors have already done. However, it is important to highlight one of the main points of view of the proposer of the meeting and the environmental organisations. This is a sustainable protection of the key source of drinking water for the capital. It is the strategic, environmental, health and defence responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia and the city of Ljubljana. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, together with the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, held a debate on this subject in May and last week. Representatives of civil society and NGOs who strongly oppose the work of the waste water treatment project in the Municipality of Ljubljana were also present at both meetings. More specifically, they dispute the routes of the connecting sewer pipeline through the Ljubljana aquifer between Vodice and Ljubljana. Although the municipality of Ljubljana obtained legal construction permits for the sewers. I told the committee last week that we are very worried about water management issues across the Ljubljana water carrier in the SAB Group; I also pointed out that as a construction engineer, attempts to abuse facts about the quality of performance and display of injuries seem unacceptable. The Ministry of Environment and Space has already carried out certain procedures and field inspections since it wanted to identify irregularities by the investor. Construction has proved to be carried out in accordance with existing building permits and on the land on which the right to build was obtained. However, the results of the review of MOL-led procedures are worrying, as they have shown suspicion of irregularities and poor practices in traceability and control. At least to a certain extent, it appears that the Ljubljana people's concerns are justified and that we must pay urgent attention to the project. The fact is, therefore, that certain issues remain open. At a meeting of the committee last week, members held a constructive debate on them. I believe that we have been guided by this, in particular, by the concern that quality drinking water must be provided to all individuals and future generations. Members of the SAB Group will support the proposed recommendations unanimously, as we feel an obligation to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and we believe that support for the recommendations is crucial to resolving the doubts that have been arising for a long time in relation to this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Republic of Slovenia, compared to other European and even many world countries, we were extremely quick to understand the importance of protecting and accessing drinking water. In order to protect this most precious natural resource from commercialisation, we have even written down the right to drinking water in the previous term in our constitution. When we observed the situation in neighbouring countries that had already commercialised the water, which had abnormally raised the price of this vital good for life and made it inaccessible to the socially weak, we reacted in the only appropriate way, according to the Desus Group, by writing down the constitutional right to drinking water. As we changed the constitutional law, many of us had doubts as to whether we would actually be able to realize the Constitution and protect water resources from human greed and the fertilisation of capital with this good. At that time, we had concerns about the granting of water concessions to foreign companies that recognized the quality and potential source of our over-quality water in our water. He rarely thought that water resources should be protected from ourselves, so the suspicion of irregularities in the implementation of the waste water disposal and treatment project in the Ljubljana field aquifer area, which was even financed by European funds, surprised us so much more. You can call us naive because such manipulations with building permits, as indicated by the revision of the project on the construction of sewer water over the water protection coverage of Kleče, carried out by the competent ministry, were not expected. Even less because it is a project of the capital city of our country, which should be an example to the other municipalities in the country through project management. This Ljubljana public company, which is responsible for drinking water supply, stresses that water is a key life-saving asset that needs to be protected. The same public company also has an announcement on its website that in Ljubljana and the surrounding area, the supply of drinking water is based on the protection of drinking water sources from water protection areas defined by the rules on which any activity or intervention is prohibited or restricted to a space that would endanger the quality or quantity of water resources. At the same time, it is also stated that, in the immediate vicinity of the water cover, the restrictions on activities in the space are very strict and that the measures are intended to reduce the risks and risks posed by current activities or those which are being introduced into the space. And look at the fragment, the founder of this public company, which claims to be aware of the importance of protecting water resources, i.e. the Municipality of Ljubljana, its sewage construction project is leading directly over the water protection coverage. Then find out who can. The capital with its surroundings even acts with the privilege of using natural drinking water, the source of which is groundwater, chlorinated only locally and only occasionally. When the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Space presented to us the history of the project's activities and the results of the revision of all the procedures led by the ILO, many could not believe what was being heard. In fact, the sewer is built over the water supply, which is the main source of drinking water for the Slovenian capital, one cannot find the logic. And if we think that this sewer runs contrary to all the technical rules, because it does not go within the shortest distance line, that it goes across the flood area of the Sava River and that the earthquake-active geological divide is only 100 meters below the surface of this aquifer, then logic and common sense are impossible to find. However, when the audit reveals suspicions of irregularities on several levels, the project is being carried out, it makes it possible for a person to think that the matter is ripe for reporting to law enforcement authorities. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the Ministry of Environment and Space has listened to the warnings of the local people and environmentalists that there is not everything in this project as it should have been; and carried out a revision of the project. As has already been said, the audit has shown suspicion of irregularities in decisions and bad practices in procedures, in particular in terms of traceability and control. The Ministry has already responded by providing guidance to the body on how to improve its practices. The ILO also commissioned a review of the project's own procedure and a legal review of the legality of the decisions issued and, due to the concern for the water carrier, a review of the technical solutions of the project. The call for a review of the technical solutions of the project was unsuccessful, as the Secretary of State said, due to the poor response and inappropriateness of the tenders received. It will therefore be repeated immediately after the formal conclusion of the current invitation to tender. Perhaps some pressure may have been exerted on potential candidates before they applied for the invitation to tender; may they already be afraid of any consequences in advance?Oh, my God! With such a project management, we would not be surprised if there were any threats. Therefore, in our parliamentary group, we expect the competent ministry to initiate appropriate procedures to identify criminal, disciplinary and civil liability in the event of irregularities identified resulting from the review of the procedure and other supervisory procedures. Let me conclude the position of the Desus Group by informing you that we will support the updated proposal for a recommendation that includes the amendments we have adopted on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u18	Vice President, good day, good day to you all. I don't even know how to start this today. We had twice on the board, they were invited, we sat in. The big salon was almost too small. Last time we had a committee, look at the fraction, three, four just came in, like there's no one interested in this MOL. It's really funny when someone just thinks that a sewer would build over a aquifer, let alone actually start doing it. How can someone who is an expert even think about starting by building sewage through a aquifer that provides 90% of the daily drinking water needs of more than 300,000 people in Ljubljana. MOL over the water protection coverage Kleče builds sewer water to the central cleaning plant. The dispute is mainly the C0 route, which would be dug into the aquifer in the water protection area from Broda to Ježica, where the strict water protection regime applies. The 2014 building permit was issued as a less demanding facility, which only means that it falls under the same category of difficulty as, for example, a larger inn or a farm. Therefore, since the project was marked as less demanding, no environmental impact assessment was carried out. Arso concluded that environmental impact assessments did not have to be carried out. When we have other projects, Arso, I must tell you, the main god in this country. It's not the state over Ars, but Arsa's way up. However, in the second building permit in 2016 it was stipulated that it was a demanding facility, but all the conditions remained the same. Does it seem reasonable to you that, after a change in the degree of difficulty, new consents should be obtained — environmental, water, nature and others, which would be issued on the basis of new conditions? As long as you're building a house, when it changes, you have to get all the extra paperwork. In addition, an environmental impact assessment should be carried out in order to change the complexity of the facility. All of this shows that all of this has been planned and that changes in the complexity of the project have deliberately avoided the requirements for a report on environmental impacts. There are many other irregularities, such as trespassing on the ownership rights of landowners, the building permit is incomplete, there are no logically connected plots, precise geodetic measurements, land tenure. The maximum ISO standards shall be required for material in a strictly waterproofing area, but there are indications that the pipes used in the case of channel C0 are suitable for waste meteor water only. Inspection 31. Ten. 2018 at the location near Camp Ježica showed that everything is ok. I really don't know how this is possible. These are just some of the irregularities, and I won't even list them all. However, the fact that the Secretary of State also acknowledged on behalf of the Ministry that the audit of the project revealed doubts about irregularities in the procedure. I would only draw attention to dangers that we do not have a bearing on; and that is nature. Because the aquifer area lies on an earthquake-active geological break, it is said in an earthquake-like very active area, and there are also strong earthwaves that trigger powerful geohydrological forces. Nature is unpredictable. If I mention only the case from last week when we had high tides in Isolah and Piran, after 50 years. We never know when Ljubljana will be affected by something like this. Nor can we foresee other natural disasters. As a result, the route envisaged is completely controversial, as we can never guarantee the complete impermeability of the channel. I would also like to know why the alternative route has not been taken into account. The implementation of the channel along the existing route along the Celovska road lies in a narrower area with a less stringent water protection regime, while the route is also safe in terms of impermeability to groundwater. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this is intentional sabotage. We can treat this as a terrorist act. We will certainly support the recommendations in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u20	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister, State Secretary with Fellow, Valuable Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Citizens and Citizens, Valuable Fellows and Fellows! Allow me to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party on recommendations for the protection of drinking water in the area of the Ljubljana aquifer. When I was preparing for the presentation of our party's position, I was often surprised that in Ljubljana's largest city, something was very wrong, because this hall is mainly designed in the Republic of Slovenia to adopt laws that improve conditions for all citizens and citizens. In this case, we're talking about water. About water in Ljubljana, which we certainly have the best in Europe. Many settlements in Slovenia do not yet have healthy drinking water on tap, but are driven by firefighters. There are over 300,000 people living in Ljubljana, more than 200,000 of them are brought to Ljubljana every day. In this National Assembly, we are talking – for the first time at the May Committee on Infrastructure, as well as the repeated meetings this month – about the protection of healthy drinking water in Ljubljana. A lot of places in the world have bigger columns, better roads, better railways. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we claim that they do not have as much quality drinking water as we have in our country, in today's case in the largest city in Ljubljana. It is therefore very unreasonable to carry out this sewage project via drinking water and on a aquifer. This work is unreasonable and goes to the detriment of those living in this city today; especially to the detriment of all those who will follow us in this beautiful city. We always hear that this project is safe, that it is professional, legal and ecologically safe. This was spoken throughout the year on both committees by experts from the Municipality of Ljubljana. When we say that there is a country in the country, we claim that in this case the state, the director of the municipality, the chief of the administrative unit and the mayor. These are unreasonable actions and are incomprehensible to Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will support all the recommendations made at today's meeting. Of course, at the end of the day, I would like to remind you of an accident that took place this year on the Rižan waterworks. An accident that has sobered the lives of those living in that area is for all of us who need healthy drinking water every day. The company that runs this plumbing has written in its slogan: Water is life — let's protect it! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will do everything we can to preserve healthy drinking water for citizens and citizens, and in this case for Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jerco Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u22	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, the Minister and all the colleagues and colleagues! It was written in 2016 and in this Chamber 64 Members decided to press the “for” button. This is an achievement for this hall. In our Bible, which is evidently symbolic of blue color, we wrote down the right to drinking water. “Everyone has the right to drinking water. Water resources are publicly good at governance. Water resources serve as a priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households, and in this part they are not marketable goods. The supply of drinking water and household water to the population is provided by the State through self-governing local communities directly and without profit.” Since we have the privilege of first-hand information on this important act of declaration in the Letter of Marjan Šarca Group, the leader of our group was one of the enthusiasts who believed that water is so essential to our society that it clearly belongs to it in the highest legal act we overcome in our country; and so is it. In addition to the efforts made in writing into the Constitution, I am even more in agreement with our leader of the parliamentary group when he says that the Constitution is not all-powerful. The greatest protection of our waters will be achieved only with the awareness of each and every one of us of the importance of water and our relationship with it. In this case, no one will be able to take our water resources and water management. Why am I saying this? Because when I read the material for today's session, that's exactly what I found. Obviously there is no act, regulation or law that could give us common sense and awareness that we are at all levels, that is, from officials to politicians, responsible for acting in a logical manner in addition to all the rules. That, for each case or situation, we cannot write matters in sufficient detail and that we have institutions and policies in this country that should have sensors on board in order to influence each other and that, as such, they should also be treated. If we were always and everywhere working towards sustainable thinking, we would sometimes stop, move our ego aside and have the ability to call at the same table different experts. Because, respectable, when we start with large projects that touch different areas, the least we have to have is a broad view enough to understand how the construction of sewerage is not just a matter of bureaucratic permits. Building 120 kilometres of sewerage across three municipalities is a project that, in our opinion, requires a comprehensive assessment of environmental impacts, even though a hundred laws do not require us to do so. Why do we think that? Because the responsible profession and policy can always use logic and decide to do what is right and do not adhere to minimum laws. I believe that it is not illegal to do more than what is prescribed by law. Despite the data set related to this project, despite many discussions, I know that Members are difficult to determine whether the pipes are correct or whether the geological composition of the soil on certain sections is appropriate or not, and so on. We're having a hard time judging the specs, and I think that's pretty clear. But it is true that more than a person knows about a particular matter, he is more subject to doubt. And it's only right to clear up the doubt. Without warning the competent and doing everything in our power to protect the highest public interest, we would show our ignorance for future generations. There is no doubt that sewage is urgently needed, for this means the removal of wells that today pose a serious threat and threaten the groundwater. We are talking about sewerage, the main purpose of which is to actually improve the situation. I would agree with some who say that more attention should also be paid to the problems arising from the fertilisation and contamination of land with pesticides just outside the water protection zone. Everything and more must be in our first plan before any major project is placed in space. The assessment of the overall impacts must not be a matter of a narrow bureaucratic commitment, but of a logical pre-conceived thinking of everyone who is in any way involved in the design of the project itself. And yes, the same is true of politics. Green can't really be a populist password that we're saying because it's currently modern and media-recognizable. Water protection can be used for even less political purposes. When the minimum doubt arises that there is a minimum possibility that our water will potentially be threatened, it is right that we too will respond. It's just that and nothing more. This is not about any opposition to the project. Let me be clear that all we want is a clear explanation. And all the other political games, who's against whom and who's with whom, we let those who control it go. For these reasons, we will support the recommendations of the Marjan Sarca Group. In view of all the ambiguities that occur in the media and in the various discussions, it is primarily our desire to clarify this. Political support for the competent authorities to review the dossier and, if necessary, take action is still in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u24	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Last Friday, at their meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we discussed the Proposal for a Recommendation on the protection of drinking water in the area of the Ljubljana aquifer. Slovenia entered the right to drinking water into the Constitution in 2016. In parallel, this provides that water resources are public good and must serve as a priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and household water. Notwithstanding the fact that the right to drinking water has been laid down by the highest legislative act for three years, we are still waiting for the adoption of sub-legislative rules that will be able to fully guarantee this right or implement it into real life. And only when all legislation is regulated and adopted in the field of drinking water supply will we be able to ensure this constitutional provision to the full. The last few weeks have heard a lot about the construction of the Ljubljana aquifer. While it is a big project, the latter is more than its scope in the eyes of many people, and there are increasing warnings about environmental threats. At the same time, reports of irregularities in obtaining licences for this project, which are not to be forgotten, are becoming increasingly pervasive in an extremely sensitive area. This is precisely why the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space met last week, and as a reason for the Committee's reference, the proposaler stated, inter alia, that the project operator is not carrying out in accordance with the rules and that it is consequently jeopardising the health of all the inhabitants of our capital. There were a lot of concerns in the debate, and a lot of questions were raised. And in the case of such sensitive and important subjects for people, it is essential to give priority to the arguments and findings of the competent services. At the meeting of the Committee, the State Secretary of the Ministry of State argued that the investor has all the necessary permits in the areas where the work is carried out, as well as inspection controls have not shown any irregularities and derogations. However, the Secretary of State also pointed out that at the Ministry of Environment and Space they had ordered a revision of all procedures; and this audit had shown doubts about irregularities in decisions and bad practices in the traceability and control procedures of the project. As we have discussed on the Committee itself, it is most important for the Group of Social Democrats to do what is necessary to protect people. At the same time, it is crucial that the matter gets an epilogue by showing where, when, and who is responsible for any irregularities in this project. The latter would probably not be discussed today if questions about this content were closed; but there are more and more. Moreover, the statements made by the Ministry of Environment and Space, such as that there is a suspicion of irregularities and that the legality of building permits does not yet mean legality, but, above all, that of the inhabitants living in this area, it gives us more and more doubts. However, I must commend the work of the committee on which we members and members have exceeded that typical coalition-opposition division. We have jointly supported all the conclusions of the proposer and two other coalitions. Among other things, the Ministry shall initiate appropriate criminal, disciplinary and civil liability procedures in the event of irregularities identified. Your Honor! The permanent right to drinking water and to a healthy living environment is not only a declaratory dictatorship, on which we like to rely at various celebrations; they demand the highest degree of responsibility and work of all competent ones, just with projects such as the Ljubljana aquifer, which must not have the slightest doubt about safety, prudence and transparency. The Group of Social Democrats therefore welcomes this meeting, which must not be self-sufficient, but only one step towards achieving the objectives of the project's security, prudence and transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. However, the proposaler, Dr. Anja Logar, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u26	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, thank you for your express support for the proposed decisions by all the parliamentary groups. I think this unity is important when we touch on environmental issues. Please also allow a slight surprise. I've been alerting these problems for 18 months. What you said today from all the parliamentary groups, I said 18 months ago. Do you know where this channel C0 was 18 months ago on the aquifer? He wasn't there. He was only in the papers. When I listened to representatives of other coalition and opposition parties today, I felt like I was listening to myself. You finally realized that there was something really wrong with this project. But 18 months went by, and someone took advantage of it. However, he has benefited skillfully from the fact that the institutions are not functioning or that the order of the institutions is slightly different. Earlier, a colleague from the Slovenian National Party had played with the idea that Arso was above the state. I would say that in this case this hierarchy is obviously a little different. First it's a state, then it's Arso, and then it's Zoran Jankovic over Ars. And it's obviously the only system that works for us. What the City Square 1 says, then do Arso and then allow the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Minister said that, at the time this debate opened on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space in May 2019, concrete steps had been taken; in fact, they were not. In six months he took concrete steps only by Zoran Jankovic as he continued to build. In these six months, he completed 80 % of what is most controversial – to flush the sewers over the water cover. And God loves him who allows it in his right mind. You're asking yourself that, but he's still building today. You know, he was building on Sundays, and he came to the construction site himself on Sundays to build on his own. Do you know why? Just to implement the enforcement policy – Look, Minister Zajc, I've done everything, and I'm still 15 meters away, and you're gonna give me that building permit. But if you don't, you'll be guilty of losing 30 million euros. But I'll say something else. What if you carry out and allow this project to be completed, and then it is found that the European Commission has been re-emerged, flattened and then €60 million of European funds will have to be returned, €60 million. Then we'll go our separate ways. I agree with what Member Desus said that we did not expect such manipulations regarding the building permit. This project is carried out under Regulation 1303/2013. Article 101, entitled Information needed for the approval of a major project, states: “Before a major project is approved, the managing authority shall ensure that the following information is available: indent f, environmental impact analysis“ This is a major project, and today the building permit also says that it is a demanding project, the Ministry of Environment and Space says it is a major project. [[...]] The European Directive requires an environmental impact analysis and environmental impact analysis has not been carried out. And here begins the first scam that the Ljubljana Municipality has served and that the authorities have allowed. You know, if you report a demanding project on an administrative unit as a less demanding project, then the documentation requirement is slightly different than if it were fair and would report a demanding project. Here's a building permit from 12. 3. 2014, where it says that the pipeline, although it says in the law that a pipe above one metre is a demanding object, is a pipe of 1.2 meters and writes — nothing to me, nothing to you — a less demanding object. Nobody in this country does anything, even the water consent of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment — without specific conditions; the natural security consent of the Ministry of Agriculture — without specific conditions; no impact assessment is necessary. Next, the limits were not notified of the building permit. You can imagine, in addition to your plot, you begin to build sewers with feces, interfere with your land, and you are borderline not even informed about it. Moreover, those who had land there did not even know that a building permit had been issued. Do you know how they got to him? Through the requirement to access information of a public nature. You imagine the country they live in, that something builds next to them, that they can't even find out on the official path, that they're not even invited to make a statement about it, even though they're limiters when they hear something's going on. They must reach this document, which has been issued by the official bodies, through an information officer. And when they do, they find that he is already — legally competent. Now, you tell me, if someone steals a million euros, then they make a fair living with these millions of euros, they put them in the bank, they get 50,000 euros every year, they get more than you Members; is that an honest man?Oh, my God! Yeah, he makes money every year in a fair way. Does he have to give up that million because from now on he's working honestly? Probably not. It is likely that such money should be taken back and punished with appropriate penalties. In this case, I hear the idea that because the project is so far gone, let's let it stay where it is. We know that the route is impossible, and this has already been defined. Why is there such a route instead of a straight line? Because the Municipality of Ljubljana has some August there, which is 2,4-3 meters wide and then cut the pipes in such a way that they are sufficient or placed just below that path. Do you know what this means for the scaffolding forces in this structure in the earthquake area? If you have one of these, just break it a little bit. Do you know what happens if you break a sewer where you have a sewer with a flow of over 200 liters per second? You can imagine, it's not quite clear. With this building permit, everything's wrong. If you don't believe it, you could listen to Košičko, chairman of the Management Unit Moste - Polje, amazingly, he has issued all the building permits. He was formerly an associate of a fellow member from the Municipality of Ljubljana and was well known. He even told the Committee on the Environment that it was a disputed building permit. Do you need anything else? If you don't believe him, you have to trust Mayor Jankovic, who, as we have previously established, is even above Ars. Here I have the response of Mayor Jankovic to the request for a special meeting of the City Council on the topic of sewerage C0. I will quote what he wrote: “It is absolutely true that building permits have already been obtained in contravention of the European legal order, the EEA-directive, for which the responsibility lies solely with the State or, above all, the ILO and the SVRK.” Look how good he brought you around. He has obtained building permits based on which works; now he says it is your fault – and it is your fault that the SVRK is guilty of giving me a building permit. And then again, his words: “We do not intend to answer for the procedures carried out by the Management Unit of Moste - Polje. This is simply a matter of the Administrative Unit Moste - Field, which is also signed under decisions and answers.” And Košicek is to blame for signing such permits. This is so if you cooperate with whoever's above Ars. Come in. We know that the project is being implemented with the support of the police. I hope to say that this is the only project financed by European funds for which the execution of a cordon of police officers with cavalry and armoured vehicles must be so that the operators of part can continue to divest private land and plant pipes. Do you picture this picture that we are sending to the European Union? We're building a sewer that needs to be protected by a police cordon. But that the matter is even more bizarre, our judicial branch of power also helps. Here I have a temporary order from Judge Andreja Bedene, who, by chance, received this procedure in two proceedings concerning the same content from the District Court in Ljubljana, which is the largest. It's a coincidence, even though it's a natural judge's principle, it's spinning around, and in case the one who comes comes comes comes. And it has ruled that a temporary order is necessary and urgently necessary in order to prevent the occurrence of severe compensatory damage. Do you imagine?Oh, my God! You throw feces over the aquifer, and then the judge says that it's okay to kick, okay; but it's hard to resist it, but it's hard to replace it. And more. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, something's got our Zoki. Moreover, when this bagger came to the private land of someone where the Municipality of Ljubljana has no official right in that part, it has no official right, and the judge knows this, because it also judges the content of the interference suit when the owner complained about this decision, I quote: "That any act or group of related practices can be classified under the legal standard of violence, there is no need for blood to flow and sing fists. The organisation of citizens, the establishment of physical barriers or barricades and the final physical denial of arrival and the commencement of works by putting people before the moving construction stand are certainly acts of force and must be prohibited by a temporary decree." Do you imagine? With mud running all over your land, you face it by already risking your life, standing in front of that bagel of mud, and the judge says that this is the use of force that has to be prohibited by a temporary order. On your own land, where there's no official right, where you're told by a bagger, if you stand in front of a bagel, you're the one who's doing the violence. However, some concepts need to be clarified in this country sooner or later. As regards the claims made in public that all experts support this project. That's what those people who are deep inside are saying, I'm not gonna say fecals, I'm gonna say marmalade, with the preparation of this project. And you won't believe those who say it's from experts who support this project, look at Erar's payrolls. They are all closely linked to the Municipality of Ljubljana or Voko Snaga. Look at how much money they get for public speaking about this project being okay. And since there has been no public debate in the last 18 months, even the public has not been able to know about these projects, it is only today that the experts report themselves and tell us what is wrong with this project. And I'll tell you, everything is wrong with this project. Those who say that this project saves the environment, because the wells are attached to the sewers, I'll tell you why it's not true. Those wells that are should be attached to the sewers, but are in a narrow urban area, are not in the water protection area. Now, they're going to connect this from a narrow urban area to a water protection area. So from the point of view of the environment, it's even worse, even more harmful, even more dangerous for these pipes to break and enter the panic room. And if it were true that it was just to connect these wells to the sewer, you wouldn't have to have a 1.2 meter tube. You know why six feet? Because of the feces of neighboring congregations, they will cross this field. In fact, Mr Jankovic is an outstanding benefactor. He allows and risks his water so that others can bring their own effluents across into our paylines. It's probably not that kind of goodness, it's probably more in any kind of goodness, not the coins, it's the bigger paper stuff going in that direction. The one you're talking about, or you're referring to, that Brussels confirmed that Jaspers said it was okay. You know what Jaspers is? Jaspers is an advisory institution within the European Investment Bank. This is a pool of experts helping Member States with challenging projects with the preparation of documentation. This is not an environmental organisation. If Jaspers says it's okay, that doesn't mean your drinking water will still be drinking if you take the sewer there. No, it just means that all the documents that need to be provided have ensured that the hook is made there and that this project is almost certainly then approved by the European Commission. Talking about if Jaspers said the thing was okay, then there must be no doubt. Of course she can be doubtful. They're not risking anything. If something turns out to be wrong, the state will be returning funds anyway. If it turns out that they were flattened, that documents that are not real were added to them, the state will reimburse the funds in one way or another. But they are not as convinced by them as they are by the Municipality of Ljubljana today, and they want to say from Voka that this project is all right. If you are looking at the Jaspers report on this project, on page 19 I quote: “Construction and conceptual permission are issued before decisions on environmental impact assessment and assessment of acceptability.” They also find it somewhat unusual to issue a building permit before carrying out an impact assessment. Lack of information on negative environmental impact assessment and assessment of acceptability. This information should be added in order to show whether the project proposed for financing by the European Union has been carried out in accordance with the provisions. For example, the opinion of the competent authorities of 24. 3. 2015 is only available in Slovenian. Jaspers recommends explaining how this, this and this article were taken into account. In short, even in Slovenian, documentation was provided. Now it's the point. If Jaspers says that it is necessary to submit why no environmental impact assessment has been made, he will not be the one to check whether you have made these impact assessments or not. If an official institution were to provide you with a provision that no impact assessment is necessary, Jaspers would be required to do so. If you're in control of your own Arsa, then you're in control of Jaspers. And if Arso tells you you don't need that judgment, it's appropriate for a European financier. So much for that. And it is not new for a project or for the Ljubljana Municipality to stain the European Commission for European funds. Here I have another such project just a light side: Sava – a river that connects. The same embezzlement with building permits, because of the same seizure of private land, claimed that it was a road that did not need a building permit and then subsequently admitted that the project could not be done without a building permit. As a result, 900 000 euros were recovered for this project because there were abuses in this system. There were 900 grand, here we have, like I said, 30 million. It's not true there's no way to change it. The financial perspective goes down in 2023, enough time. Remember, even the terms for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank could be changed, but it was a billion and a half. However, we could not place the project more appropriately for 30 million euros. The word that the project is already designed enough not to change it, I don't accept it. As far as watertightness is concerned. As you have heard recently, experts on the sewer network have told you that there is no 100% watertight network. There's no 100% watertight network. Therefore, no sane person puts sewer cables above his well. I ask you why you would take this risk, why would you even think about that risk. You don't have to. Or just because someone over Ars said it was good. No, you don't have to; we can't take this. They say about water quality in the Municipality of Ljubljana. I will read the answer from the question: "All procedures necessary to remedy any possible spillage of waste water are precisely defined in the work processes of Voka. The response time to prevention of spillage is no more than a few hours in size, so we cannot talk about spilling at all, the more appropriate term is spilling." I used to say 1.2 meters, 200 liters per second, a few hours to act. A few hours, say three hours. Do you know how much that is? It's for one Olympic pool of feces. For one olympic pool of feces. Are you taking that risk? Minister, do you take that risk? I don't; not for me, not for the generations that are behind us. Not for me, not for the generations that are behind us, if even in the Municipality of Ljubljana they say that if it pours out in three hours, we will solve the matter. In the meantime, it will run into the groundwater from which we all drink. This was also discussed by 4. 6. 2018, the Shentvid National Assembly, where the Ljubljana mayor was also, because the locals have repeatedly asked a question – Okay, watertight today, but what about 20 years after the tire is released when the tires are released, what then? Do you know what kind of answer they got? I don't care. I'll be gone in 20 years. Ask them, 60 people were there, and tell me if you believe me, or trust someone who is preparing the project so that this project will also serve its purpose and preserve Ljubljana's clean drinking water in 10, 20, 30, 40 years. I do not trust and in view of my experience with the city administration of Ljubljana I also place my heart on you that no, because experience is very bad. There are so many inconsistencies in this project, so many bad practices, now that you find out. I've been doing a little more research recently on the story of a simplified docket settlement, but I can find one more and the same in there. There's abuse, there's abuse. And so once again, the project executes the trust of an unworthy person and everything they claim is just for the public and a dead letter on paper. So I can prove to you one last act. The last act that confirms this is here, when they decided to introduce cinematography, so to the public's excitement, which has finally begun to deal with this thing, that the sewer pipe will not be just dry to be put in a concrete sarcophagus, which is actually even worse from the point of view of the cutting forces, because there is an even bigger lever for breaking the pipes that are already rolling, they have briefly asked for a preliminary environmental impact assessment. Look, here's the part they sent to Arsa. Do you know what it says about the intentional intervention? But you know what 31. Seven. 2019, when everything was clear when we talked about building permits and so on, when that meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space was already taking place. It says here it's a less demanding object. With the fraud of the 2014 building permit, when they wrote this, they then changed 2016, today, this is in 2019, and the Ljubljana City Municipality is still hoping to submit a request for a preliminary impact assessment by writing about this project that it is a less demanding facility. And he writes another lie in there. He writes this lie – after the construction of the sewers will be dug into the ground, the original state will be established in the area of the construction, the impact of the intervention on the forest space will not be, from the area of the forest. Now I read to you what the Slovenian Department of Nature Protection says. On this plot, the Municipality of Ljubljana damaged part of the qualifying habitat of the Illyrian oak-belabro forest, which defines the Natura 2000 area, the Sava Medvoda area, which will no longer be restored on this plot. Two straight lies another 31. Seven. 2019. Almost every statement made by the Municipality of Ljubljana or Voka in connection with this project is a misappropriation. If you were watching yesterday's Target, you saw how arrogant and self-sufficient they were. I don't know if it's because they're obviously above Darsa over the Ministry of Environment and Space; or if it's something else. Dear Members, Members, I do not think we should agree to the policy of facts that have been learned, facts that have been carried out. I don't think the Minister should agree to this either, but he must do his duty – to protect the environment, to protect drinking water and to carry out procedures in accordance with the procedure. If you're going to let this project go to the end for all these violations that are, in all these frauds, with all these lies that are still in place today, then you're just setting up a system for all the other sheriffs to do. You know, the Ministry of Environment and Space has a lot of responsibility and needs to do it, it has to be the guardian of the legislative process, it must also be the guardian of drinking water, which is enshrined in the Constitution. We, and we must exercise control over the work of the minister. And if today we unanimously confirm these conclusions, I think we have a precondition, an appropriate condition or an appropriate lever to continue this. I have asked 14 questions in the last year on this subject, 14, once again, the coalition Members have always rejected these Members' questions, always! I don't understand why; I don't understand why. I'm glad you're smart, but I'll tell you again that I'm not stopping with these conclusions. Minister, at least in the SDS Group, we will not land and we will monitor very closely how you allow or how you must not allow the way in the environmental field, as is now being done in this Kleče aquifer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to debaters of the kind of Members, I have informed the Government that representatives of the Government can apply to the debate whenever they wish. Since there are quite a few reviews, I will read three or four of the following debaters. The first one will get the word Franz Kramar, followed by Tinker Bell, then Matjaž German, Gregor Perič, Marko Bandelli. Mr. Kramar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I'm listening to this, I'm actually wondering, because I was mayor of five mandates, if we're the same mayor in this country before the law. I seriously ask myself this, because the mayor has to be, he has to be the guardian of legality. Whenever procedures are laid down, the mayor is the one who must protect legality. And now I'm asking myself here because the mayors aren't the same before the law, how this building permit was issued. I don't understand. I, in my career, have obtained building permits, and you must know that the Radovljica Administrative Unit is very strict, we had to obtain all the necessary consent. Since we still have a national park, the question of whether to obtain an integrated environmental impact assessment was never questionable at all. Of course, this was the basis for the construction process being allowed at all. And if it is still a strictly protected area, if there is a drinking water reservoir under the construction site, these procedures should be force of force careful and consistent with legislation. Of course, it will also be the fact that cohesion funds have been acquired for this investment. You know, in two regions Slovenia is divided – into the eastern and western regions. The Western region is because it includes the Municipality of Ljubljana, of course a developed region. On the other hand, we have the East, which is underdeveloped. And look at the fraction, the cohesion resources for sewerage were allocated on the basis of setting criteria that no municipality in the Western region could meet, except the Municipality of Ljubljana. She's the one who picked up all those funds. That's interesting. That's interesting. We also want to build sewerage in Radovljica, in Tržič, everywhere, but we were not afforded cohesion resources because everything has been reduced to the Municipality of Ljubljana. So not only do we have differences between the mayors, but we also have differences between the regions and between the Municipality of Ljubljana; between the regions and between the Municipality of Ljubljana. The publisher of the building permit, what I'm reading, shows that these gentlemen who issue this do not have any legal knowledge at all, but this is done — you, me, you. And in this way, even building permits are obtained for such a sensitive project as the construction of the C0 sewerage. I will, of course, support these proposed conclusions, but, once again, I really do have a problem with this country. This is not the first investment that I believe is disputed in Ljubljana Municipality, here are Stožice. There's nothing to talk about, no legal proceedings, nothing, no 9 years to run legal proceedings, but they don't run out. It is said that if the procedure for this channel begins now, then again nine or ten years of proceedings will be under way, the matter will become obsolete and the matter will be fine. There's something else I want to know. When issuing a building permit, the basic issue is the acquisition of official rights. No one may issue a building permit if the privileges of landowners are not obtained; and the facts are known. If you don't have the privileges of owners, then the building permit can't be issued. This is the case in Radovljica Administrative Unit. Apparently, in Ljubljana, administrative units are deciding in a different way. Besides, I don't know what law it is, because it's not in marriage. It is really interesting that owners now have to fight to avoid digging their parcels, and the building permit has been issued. It really stinks. It really stinks. I hope that today's conclusions will help people to open their eyes and finally recognize that we must all be equal in this country; above all, they must be equal mayors among themselves because they are guardians of legality.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. He will be followed by Matjaž the German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! At times, when the times were not as modern as they are today, and when we did not know many institutions and well-paid officials who were supposed to take care of environmental protection, people in sound farming were significantly better environmentalists than many institutions today. In those days, people built places where they did not swim, protected fertile land, and, above all, they did not think of taking the well or waste water through a well because we know that water is flowing down and not up; and it is the same with sewage. Some healthy farmer's logic suggests that such a project as is done here, through the aquifer Kleča, should not be. As for formalities, it was said that a building permit was obtained for one part of the project. In the debate on the Committee, and also today, we have heard that this building permit has been obtained under highly questionable assumptions and with inadequate documentation or without an assessment to be made in this case, an environmental impact assessment. Also, the subsequent acquisition of water consent does not mean anything. However, it is essential that this project, which should be considered in its entirety, because it is a comprehensive project, you cannot get for a project such as this, building permit per piece; that there is one essential part missing, 800 plots of 413 owners in this project. So this project should not have received this partial building permit. It's something like if someone who builds a house gets a building permit first for the basement, then for the mansard, then they give it two more floors in between. It's not working. There is no such building permit and in this case there should be no such building permit. In one part we do not have a building permit, we do not have a service in this project; in the other part we have a building permit which is controversial because it does not meet all the formal and procedural conditions for it to be issued. And since this project has been under discussion for several years now, one would expect the Ministry to take immediate action in all these years under supervisory law and remove this building permit, freeze the implementation of the project, demand the completion of everything that is missing here. That's not it. And these conclusions, which we are going to adopt today, do not directly impose on the Ministry; however, I would expect to receive a very clear reply from the Minister in this regard. In his opening presentation, he said somehow that he agreed with what we were proposing and which today, it appears, will also be unanimously adopted. However, there is one great fear here that if this is adopted and there is no action by the Ministry, and immediate action, nothing significant will happen. The immediate action, however, means an immediate interruption, a suspension of implementation or a continuation of this project. This should follow these recommendations. Because if that doesn't happen, Minister, ordering some of the placement audits and everything else doesn't mean anything. It would be a shame if you did not do what I believe we should do for the project and for the country as well as for the country as it would otherwise be. This project is so controversial that if there is no immediate halt and changes to this project, these European funds will have to be reimbursed irrefutablely, the project will not be successful and the damage will be enormous. For this reason, I appeal to the common sense, to the powers that the Minister has, and I appeal to the fact that, under supervisory law, he immediately intervenes and immediately ceases to do so. Since the second point indicates that the National Assembly recommends to the Ministry that, under its powers, under the legal means permitted by the current legislation, it shall immediately take all measures to ensure that it retains or stops the construction of the sewerage channel C0 at the disputed foot of Brod to Ježica, obtaining all the required documentation on the project and environmental impact assessment. I didn't realize that was going to happen. What the minister said is talking about something completely different. A study will be commissioned, the project will continue to be carried out in this part where a permit has been obtained, which is controversial and should not be valid. I don't think anywhere in this country would be able to get a building permit for such a project. Nowhere in this country. So are special laws applicable in Ljubljana when it comes to Mr Jankovic? Is there a jus or lex Ljubljankovic here, or what? Here we are actually dealing with lex Ljubljankovic, because obviously there are special rules that are written when it comes to the Municipality of Ljubljana, on the skin of only one person. That, too, should be done here, according to my assessment, without delay. And the Ministry has a chance to act, both the Ministry and a number of para-State institutions. Many of you, in my opinion, know a tragic event that happened in our neighboring country 56 years ago. I'm talking about the disaster that happened in the Vajont Valley between Venice and Furlania - the Julian landscape. It is an area on the southeast side of Dolomitov where 262 metres of high dam were built. The builders were extremely proud of this project because it was the highest anger in the European space at the time. At that time, when this anger was being built, the profession warned that the area was problematic, that nature was unpredictable in that area, that many tectonic movements were taking place, and that a problem could arise because of the lake that was loaded behind the dam. Of course, this anger was gradually filled. First of all, up to a height of 100 meters, when additional measurements were obtained, they went ahead and, at the final stage, they filled this dam up to 25 meters above the final height. For the studies conducted by the experts spoke of the fact that even if there was a beach and there was a collision of more land in that dam, the splash that would follow that collision would not exceed 20 meters. And then it happened in October 1963, the evening hours were when that area began to move very dangerously. Immediately, about 60 experts arrived, and the water had to be released for another 15 meters. And just before 11:00 p.m., when people were mostly sleeping in their homes, it hit. The earth, the stones, the trees, everything that fell into this anger was so great and the quantity was so great that the wave that clapped over this dam was 250 meters high. So all this water jumped over and watered the town of Longarone and most of the villages under it, and within eight minutes, thousands of 970 people died. Even today, this anger stands there as an architectural achievement and a monument to human violence against nature and natural law. The tragedy that happened at the time, no one will be able to erase it. How can someone erase a tragedy that can happen in Ljubljana if the Ljubljanaers lose their drinking water in the future?Oh, my God! This tragedy will not be eight minutes, but it will take months, years, decades, centuries. Think about this and freeze the further implementation of this project immediately. I think there's an alternative. Find it as soon as possible because it is on the table, include all the expertise available in this area; and keep this project going along a path that will not be disputed as far as the water cover for Ljubljana is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž German. And he'll get Mark Bandelli's word after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Voltaire said we're responsible for what we do, and for what we don't do. We have a very important debate today in the National Assembly. As has been mentioned several times in various debates today, we have placed the right to drinking water in the Constitution a long time ago, which today also gives an exceptional substantive basis to those who were skeptical at the time. On the other hand, which we have supported, it commits us to support proposals regardless of color, regardless of where they come from, because much attention needs to be paid to conservation of nature, climate, the environment today. We have an eloquent example of potential abuse of this, which could also be said to be a rhetorical question of how many millions is a possible intervention in the water protection environment, how much is the price of such doing, to give priority to capital over consequences that could have far-reaching consequences for our craftsmen and also for ourselves. It is the responsibility of the policy, regardless of the parties to which we belong, to at least thoroughly check the work given to make sure that we can be held accountable as responsible politicians for a possible disaster. Some say that this water source depends only on the capital, but it is not only the capital. Of this water source, the credibility of policy is also a major test. Paradoxically, we were all placed on the same shore, in the parable of when, as mentioned earlier, skeptics and supporters of the constitutional record found ourselves on the same bank to examine to the precise extent whether these geological movements or hydrological movements could affect the fact that this argument of potential, possible sewerage could interfere with the water supply. On the part of the Social Democrats, as well as my personal parties, we can only communicate our support for the recommendations proposed. As was already the case in college, the policy on this issue has been unified. Of course, we ask and I think that at least by Minister Zajc here there is a certain empathy for this issue, so that even the greatest skeptics can be sure that this decision can be crucial for access to drinking water for the capital and wider. So it's not a political issue, it's a human question, it's a question of human values and values that we defend ourselves, whether it's in the constitution or not. I am talking about the responsibility that we need to strengthen and cultivate in such matters to the politicians. We will support the proposals for recommendations in the hope that the Ministry will also explore and answer the questions raised; and, of course, we will finally answer the last skeptics, whether this accommodation is even appropriate and necessary, whether alternatives are really so unavailable that we are also threatening the well-being of the entire capital as regards access to drinking water. Let me conclude, we will support the proposals, of course, with the hope of finding solutions to avoid potential disasters. Even if they can only be potential, they can be fatal. For such questions, there can be minimal doubt enough to unify the entire Slovenian policy in order to find the right answers. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. He'll be followed by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. I'm not here to talk about the right to drinking water that we have entered into the Constitution. It's shocking just to hear if it's true what's going on. Shocking. This is where it basically goes. Somehow a man would think that there are two things here. One is that it is an illegal construction, an unprofessional construction, if you say so, an illegal intervention to a specific location. And the other thing that's heard from another place is the motive to do it as if we were setting Jankovic up. Far from it; I absolutely agree with everything you've said so far. As a former mayor, I'm extremely surprised how it's possible that these permits have even been obtained. I'll start with the place, I don't have much time, but I hope to tell you the point. I don't care about Alpe Adria Green, all because we know that these various initiatives, associations and these NGOs are just waiting for moments like this to show up on their own, even though they're right all the time. Here it is simply understood that this investment has been misplaced; that is the point, it needs to be talked about. I will also tell you about the placement of this route, now I have heard my colleague Logar – a lot of information. And I believe they're real. Why is such a serpentinetate route down, which is totally incomprehensible, but it is probably not incomprehensible; it is probably deliberately done so. That's what we know why. Because they want it to go to a certain place, because there's probably an interest in the background that went to certain places. This will also be the task of verification. That's what I'm gonna say. I'm sorry. Every new minister gets something old, inherited. He has received this matter into his hands and will have to resolve this matter, in one way or another, he will be able to, because I see that there are 90 Members of Parliament united here, as far as this matter is concerned. The technical and technological solution to this sewerage is also a questionable matter. Now I'm going to tell you honestly, I even had in my hands a project on those U's, on those tabernacles, about what he called his colleague Logar, the script or I don't know what he said earlier, a very good expression, where it's very figuratively shown how this tube will be dressed in. I had this concrete project in my hands, and I said back then that this type of construction on an unstable basis could not be because it was not designed for such a foundation. And that's what I'm saying, because I'm an expert on selling; and I know exactly what this is about, and we're building these things and we're building them. Such a way of putting that manuscript is not going to this area, it goes to kerbs where there are solid things, not where there are unstable soils. There's unstable soil here, there's unstable soil here. Even the pipes, I'll tell you honestly, I called the SVR to get the documentation, but the answer was that this has a ILO, the ILO gave it to Jaspers, Jaspers gave it to the European Commission, then the European Commission confirmed this project. The project is too big. They can't send me everything that is. I've seen what this is all about anyway. And now it's not even as much a problem of sewerage as it is if a particular material is used because there is no such thing as PVC, they're polypropylene, they're a variety of materials that make the pipes up to a metre of 60 diameters that are foreseen for this area, but all of this wasn't foreseen there. Such a technological solution was envisaged, which is not appropriate for that place. First, there was a technological solution where one wonders why one has to work so hard to reach the goal. I think that's probably clear to everyone why. As far as building permits are concerned, I immediately realized that there can be no such thing here. In such a large project, a single building permit shall be made, no three, four building permits or how many were made. Here, clearly, we are looking for building permits to move forward with certain projects. This project, as said by colleague Franz, stopped many other, smaller, more important projects that could be implemented; but because of Jankovic and Ljubljana, the project was approved. Now I'm going to say something, he gave you the case of Stožice, and I'm going to tell you one other eccentric problem that also went through and which was absurd from absurdity; and I can also prove why. RCERO Ljubljana, you do not know how RCERO Ljubljana was built, 500 million project because they thought the whole of Slovenia would be trashed in that RCERO Ljubljana. And they wanted to sign contracts in advance, but we, the smart mayors who put smart directors in smart places, we said – we will not sign the contract because there must be some kind of hacker in the background. And he was right here. The one who signed the contract then had to drive as a municipality to those places at a higher price because they thought the whole of Slovenia would be vehicles there. 120 million, 140 million RCERO Ljubljana, I don't know how much it was worth. 20%, 15% of the capacity because we drive all the other municipalities to other places because we can't rob citizens, we couldn't do that and give them a 30% higher price for garbage removal than it is real. That's how it's done here, that's how it's done. Errors are now being made here, and it must also be one of these projects, which smells like, like we said, which is not fair, is not fair to me. And it is not fair not only because of the project but also because it has limited the possibility of funding other more important projects. And this is where we have to think. And I personally and I think that our client, too, will support all these proposals. And we're going to demand that this is cleared up; and let's see what the motivation of all of these issues that we've just given up is. And I hope we get them. Minister, now that you've come in, I repeat, it's not your fault. You've inherited it, and we really want everyone here to solve this matter. And I think we will, and I'm sure we will. But as we stop the project, I'm more interested. I don't have much time left, but it's really bugging me how it's possible that the owners didn't know. The owners have to sign their consents, give them building rights to do something to get a building permit. You can say that to someone who lives on the 6th floor who works in one place who doesn't know what it's about. But don't tell us that here. How these building permits were obtained is an embarrassment, impossible. And we need to get to it clean because it's obvious what you said wasn't clean. So much for me for now. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. And she'll get the word of Monica Gregorčič after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, Members, Minister and Team! In the introduction and even during the discussion, we heard Dr. Anže Logar very detailed the very pressing issue in Ljubljana, in particular as regards the environment, as regards the water protection area. I think it can be clear to everyone here that something smells strong and that something is very wrong; and we also need to act immediately. We've been talking about this for months. We have come so far after all that we must even discuss this issue in the National Assembly. And that projects like this one in Ljubljana, for so much money, do so in their own way, is almost impossible to believe. How many projects with similar content, for central cleaning plants, for secondary sewerage, primary water should be made elsewhere, and I believe that for such money they could be made hugely by many municipalities. We are also waiting in the municipality of Lithuania for a central cleaning facility for Kresnice, you probably know, a large area, enough population units. We'd like to attach Dol to Ljubljana, the Yevnica, but we can wipe ourselves under our noses for this money. I don't think we'll ever see him again. And the project would be prepared as it should, with all the building permits, with all the permits to intervene in plots, in private property. It also mentioned private property, but once again it must be said that private property is sacred. Someone bought this private property, someone could work for it, someone earned it, and they have the right to use it, and they have the right to have it. And trespassing on property without permission is unheard of. Constantly, even on the committee, even today – the entry of the right to clean drinking water into the Constitution and so on; on the other hand, we listen to such stories, which, in my opinion, have nothing to do with it. This is completely contrary to what we write about and boast about what we have done good. The fact that the sewerage, sewerage water across the water protection area, is so important because it is so good, quality, clean drinking water that we have in Ljubljana, because it is not supposed to be chlorinated or specially purified, that we face it in individual municipalities all the time. Water even needs to be cooked because it's objectionable. And if a sewer was built over such water on such a winding path, I think the kids would understand that something doesn't count here that something doesn't go together. If you went to elementary school now to ask the children if they would drag the sewer across the water catch, across the aquifer, where there is pure drinking water, I think the answer would be 99% no. However, not to be aware of this authority, some mayor of the largest city of Slovenia, even the capital – not the capital, as I had heard before, Ljubljana is not the capital, because we have no throne because we are not a monarchy, but we are something else – so the largest city where there are 300,000 people. That it's not so worried that it easily reaches into some space and does some sewerage, which, of course, I believe is absolutely necessary, there is no doubt here. Of course they praised that this is being built in Ljubljana and throughout Slovenia, which is a major contribution to a cleaner environment, we can see this in the municipalities where we have already dealt with this. However, to easily intervene in such a place and in such an area, and to Arso, as we have heard about and likely to be caught, and probably also to hold that the Ljubljana mayor and his team are still above Ars, is indeed a disaster to obtain an environmental permit to intervene in this space. I'll just give you one example in Hotic, even in Zasavje, where the bypass could take place. They've been waiting years for this permission. Complications, problems – the road will be built, the bypass will be built. She's been waiting 20 years for her, but she will. And you don't get the right permissions, and if you go over there today, there's nothing special. Absolutely nothing special, nothing like that. And they're waiting on documents, on papers, sending these documents from one official to another, from this agency to another, and back to the Directorate to the Ministry. I don't understand how this takes so long. In the case of Ljubljana, where clean drinking water is valuable, gold is worth today, it will be even more later, and this will be achieved quickly. It's that story again; first- and second-rate. I also know that if a project is built, we have also heard, which also saddens me very much, that it is even over the weekend, even though we spoke on the committee a while ago today in the National Assembly, that it was known that there would be a discussion about whether the ministry knew it as well as the inspection. I don't know who should cut everything into this, because there are other organs here that should stop it. For some banal, small thing, the law enforcement authorities quickly engage, not that it was built even over the weekend. After all, when we conclude this meeting today, almost all the works will be completed. Then who's going to fix it, who's going to dig it out, who's going to pay for it? All this money is tax, European, or whatever. To do so with money, in such an easy way, carefree, that is, again, unheard of. Even if the project is done, even if something is wrong, I don't believe it will ever be fixed. I would very much like to hear the Minister's opinion on this subject, too, as it seems to him, that just for the weekend work continues to build, that there are machines, swamps. Farmers, owners of that land that they've been working on all these years, they look, they're surprised, and they're sad, and so on. Fortunately, we have some saint, an MP from this area, our group of Members; fortunately, we also have all those here today who agree that this should be cut off, that the matter is going on at all. Otherwise, this mayor would be happy to build and move on. Many times these projects, which are being implemented, will also identify various errors, such or different, technicalally, with paperwork, whatever. And the big problem is that it is not then applied to the bank guarantee provider. In short, there's so much more to it if you want to keep bringing it to her. I believe that we all agree with the proposaler that it is necessary to act urgently, that it is necessary to defend those people on whose land this sewer is being built, as well as nature. Especially nature and this pure drinking water that we have written down in the Constitution. Many times, or all of us are full of the mouths of ecology, the clean environment, the carbon-free society, we hear about it all the time, including dozens, hundreds of millions of euros for these areas; on the other hand, this is how we do it. And that is truly sad, disastrous, frightening, and I do not imagine that we would do this in all the congregations. I don't know what would have happened. But to go so easily in Ljubljana, even with the help of all the authorities – the police, the courts and everything. You make all the papers wrong before, you get a building permit that's not even supposed to be, Arso next to it, all alive, eventually the police are protecting those swamps and contractors, basically the mayor who decided so instead of these people; and eventually this water will be threatened. I can't imagine what it would be like if it actually came to this sewer pipe, with all this sewage, with all this mud, with all this, there's no, I won't mention it now, and it's coming into this aquifer. [[…]] I'd rather not imagine these disastrous consequences. In fact, this water should be protected, cared for, and cared for so much. I hope that these conclusions, which will be confirmed today, will, in fact, bind the ministry, all the institutions that are also responsible here, that something will also be done, that we will not be sitting here again for a while and that there will be nothing together and people will be warned. Let's stand up for this minority of people. It's just a minority, so someone can do something. Someone says 300,000 to Ljubljanans – here we are, now we're going to make it, the sewer will be set up, it'll go down into the cleaning machine, everything's great; for those few people there, in fact, no one really cares. But we are often solidarity and very susceptible to minorities, vulnerable groups, as we fight many times for the disabled, children, cyclists on the road, Roma, and not all groups; that is, for minorities, for some people who do not seem so important. Let us stand here in defense of all these people who live there and fight this mega-Romanic Municipality of Ljubljana, or with the mayor who treats the environment so irresponsiblely and also these people. I hope the conclusions will also be supported and will be effective. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word. And for her, he'll get the word "magic." Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I listen to this debate today and to all the concerns, problems, and even if I remember how the debate last week was held at the Environment and Space Committee meeting, I must say that all the alarms are ringing. Above all, the biggest question in place is why this disputed construction of this sewage project could have occurred, to whom in interest, and whether or not Ljubljana needs it at all? We know that, somehow in common interest, the three municipalities have joined together and the flow of this sewer pipe, that the route is driven along the most controversial part, a four-kilometre piece in the northern suburb of Ljubljana, that is from Šentvid to Črnuč, which is also a aquifer for the entire region of Ljubljana, which means that drinking water is supplied daily by about half a million people, and I am looking for reasons that such blasphemous ideas could even have occurred. I wonder who this came to mind; and somehow the answer to the palm is that these are just economic interests, that there is probably money behind them. Surely, the process of drawing on European funds is also an important aspect in this story. Here we are on very thin ice as well as a country, so I hope that the competent ministry will do everything in its power to check the procedures to see if everything has been done in the right way, whether it is right as a state not to suffer sanctions and consequences, especially here I think financial consequences. Of course, there are other consequences if the implementation and the project even occurs, if it comes into office, but they are unpredictable for human health and safety. For as many suspicions, indictments and irregularities as have already been exposed as we have heard in these debates so far, I am really afraid that our country of law is being tested. Persecution authorities should certainly start to investigate, on the basis of all the words spoken publicly, especially in this temple of democracy, by official duty, to initiate certain procedures, how and why irregularities are taking place. That so many partial building permits have been issued that the facility is defined as a less demanding facility and that it did not have to submit and carry out comprehensive environmental impact assessments to obtain them; this is, in my opinion, something unheard of. If we know that a slightly larger parking lot or a more complex auto-mechanical workshop requires environmental impact assessment precisely because of the danger, due to the possible spillage of motor oils to groundwater pollution, then all logic is shut down by the sewage water of 1.2 metres. It has already been pointed out in the debate that we are also at an earthquake turning point, that there are too many thin pipes and that watertightness is questioned. Perhaps we can find the reasons for such a chosen route also in fact, back there are speculations that this area could somehow be envisaged for future construction projects. Unfortunately, any precautionary principle and security and legality concerns were clearly omitted from these projects. The mere fact that there has been a change in the middle of this project and some subsequent decision that the most controversial route has been followed by the construction or installation of a pipe into this concrete channel, which is supposed to be a security, preventive mechanism, has already attached itself to this. But we know it's not like that yet. Where do I see the light at the end of the tunnel? In the fact that at this point, at least at national level, politics has somehow united itself that care for drinking water, for our health and for our environment has no political colour and taste. And he certainly thanks his colleague Logar for insisting and bringing the matter to national level. Ljubljana has its own city, local authority, mayor and functioning city council. In this place, I certainly miss the voice of other city councilors, especially if we know that there are two other colleagues from the city council and that they have not yet somehow been publicly identified or publicly raised on this issue. Well, this session will take some time, so I really hope today is an opportunity to hear their opinion, because the Ljubljanaers expect it from them. I would also like to draw attention to the functioning of environmental organisations here. Of course, they have engaged in this particular case, but I would expect them to be a little bit louder too, so that they can somehow unify and collide with their species. Environmental protection organisations are, of course, welcome in their work. At times, they may be somewhat disruptive when they are blocking a good or potentially good economic project or delaying it because of their activities. But here it is certainly in place to strain species and to help not only Ljubljanans, but the entire population in the care of the clean environment. Because clean environment and healthy drinking water must be preserved not only for us but also for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. He'll get the word of Franci Kep behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. That's a good-bye! Initially, I must say very clearly and loudly that I am moving away from this part of today's debate, which is linked to channel C0, this so-called technical part. However, I was very encouraged by the debate, and I must admit that I am outraged by the debaters so far and also by the proposaler. Such a bitter attitude towards officialism. And the fact is, in this regard, you will allow me to make my debate quite concrete, perhaps for moments of surprise. I was good for four years, five years in the so-called State Administration. And I must admit that I have never met with this wide range of dialogue that officials, like the proponent in other matters, would be mentioned many times, ours – yours. The official is an official and he has to work and also in the Ljubljana Administrative Unit, Moste - Field exhibition work according to the principle of legality. What does that mean? In a specific matter, the law on administrative procedure is procedural law, substantive regulations in the matter of this unfortunate, if I may say, and the channels are in the Construction Act. And no one's ever touched that before. According to the legislation in force from the years 2004 and 2005. I don't care who adopted this legislation. And I am also not interested in the regulations of the Ministry of Environment and Space, or infrastructure, or agriculture, because governments are changing and even powers are interfering, and the process of obtaining consensus, including environmental impact, has also been linked. From this place, I must admit that the ungrateful role of the Zajc team, which has inherited a case and is now almost a key culprit in this matter. Dearly beloved, even the proposer, for you have done well or declared yourself well in the opening part — a time for action. In 2017, your parliamentary group was thoroughly confronted with all the documentation. And I wonder why she wasn't required, if not another, to reopen the procedure. But again, the question is, maybe it hasn't been delayed. Because the building permit was in the sixth, seventh month of 2014, and I don't think I'm going to get much wrong, it's become legal. Today is final, and I believe that all Members know very well what this means. However, I must admit that I resent all those before me who are to debate, especially because the key question is whether you have even looked at a building permit that is legally and definitively. Some debate would have gone in a different direction, not even in the one that insults officials. Officials of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit are not an integral part of the Ljubljana Municipality. I am not defending; I myself have been on the opposite side many times, as far as the Municipality of Ljubljana is concerned. But we're talking about an administrative procedure today. Do you know what administrative procedure means? This is not a court of law. When the administrative authority decides to obtain a building permit in the first stage of the administrative procedure, it shall decide on the basis of the application. However, the application is always submitted by an investor who is generally an investor. I don't even care if there's an investor in Ljubljana City Municipality, if you look at the building permit at the same time, he's even Voka's authority, which is to say that in all of these procedures, it wasn't the Ljubljana Municipality, but it was Vodvod Kanalizacija, and I'm not going to let go, but who owns the connection. But the key is something. The official must follow the material rules consistently in these proceedings. I'm not even going to talk about trials. As far as I am aware of this matter, the official who dealt with it and the leader consistently followed the rules, including the environmental impact, as to whether there is a need for consensus. I don't think I'm going to be very wrong if I say around 17 consents, it was up to the investor to ensure that the administrative authority started the procedure at all, that it was the perfect role. As for talking about building permits, who issues them, I find it more and more excellent to be in Parliament because you can say everything you want; but as far as you know, it's about responsibility. But it is true that people like this; and I must admit that if I relate to what the proposer says – 18 months ago I began to talk about it, to warn and the ministry has not done anything to date. But if I look at what happened 18 months ago, what does that mean? Pre-election activities for the mayor of Ljubljana. Does this mean that we have now – please understand me, against the flow of the channel myself, but then I will continue – does this mean that we now have a pre-election activity, say a specific MP for the mayor of Ljubljana, who will be in 2022?Oh, my God! The fact is that pre-election activities can take place for four years. I don't understand that. Why do I think that? Let me be honest. The speaker also said that you do not store waste above water. Yes, honourable Members, I would have been in the previous term, we have talked about this several times. What about the Lower Podravje, where there are plenty of municipalities where the manure of the decade is sprinkled without talking, even with artificial fertilizers, phytosanitary sprinkles and the like?Oh, my God! And even today, they find that drinking water is contaminated in that area. Even after the press or TV, I watched a contribution a week ago. Where are you worried now?Oh, my God! I agree that Ljubljana is a swimming pool, that more or less of the capital is the centre of all possible matters and, of course, is also a very interesting election area, and I agree with that. If only the protection of drinking water was really meant, I ask, not the proposer, but any in the National Assembly – Do you know that it is part of the northern suburb of Ljubljana, where we drive daily, also over this area? Not to speak; also part of the highway from Ljubljana to Kranj before crossing Sava is in this area. Where are you, protectors? There would be a lot more here, and given the time, I have to finish slowly. But my great indignation is on all the debaters and I could also go after, one would say, by individual parliamentary groups that represented, the common denominator is a building permit. It's an incomplete building permit, according to the local word, a lumbar. How do you allow a Member to justify this, to speak publicly, to insult officials if he does not see it? If the building permit is incomplete, if the building permit is illegal, the possibility is open and I believe that in a number of cases this will also happen, but in the area of the administrative procedure law we are a state of law; if we have doubts about some procedures concerning regular courts. Because in administrative procedures, the administrative authority decides on the first stage, and this is the administrative unit for the building permit. If the party to the proceedings finds that his right has been violated or that he has not been able to cooperate, he shall complain. Everyone has a decision and a complaint. This shall be decided by the second-degree authority. If, at the second stage, when the Ministry does not solve the matter for its expected benefit, we have the Administrative Court, we have the Supreme Court not to speak if human rights are human rights, including the Constitutional Court. So I don't talk about supervisory justice. And what I find very disturbing in this matter. Why, by the proposer in 2017, when the Commissioner was on your side at the Ljubljana Administrative Unit; and if the building permit was so fundamentally wrong, why did he not react unlawfully? As chief, you always have the opportunity to initiate procedures. Initially, I said that I would only define myself for the procedure, and this administrative procedure, because it was said how many of these things or packages were done. Next thing you know, I'm gonna touch the candidate's material a little bit. He wrote in the introduction – an inappropriate spatial act. Since when do we know inappropriate spatial acts? Whether or not it is valid. The spatial act for this channel was granted the power of attorney in 2008. I don't know, I suppose the procedure started at least a year or two earlier. But now we're in 2012, that was the UN. The OPPN, i.e. the implementing spatial act, was adopted in 2010. And if I come back again, the Construction Act 1 was passed in 2004, completed in 2005. The administrative authority which decided on the building permit had to comply with the old legislation, which must have been very much alive. As far as the environment is concerned; the fact is that the administrative authority, as far as I have somehow allowed myself to look at it, has taken this environmental impact into account in accordance with the regulation of that time. It was old and changed in 2014 and took into account the position of Arsa when this concrete act was completed in 2016. If a competent ministry or any co-ordinator has done something in this process in recent years, let someone finally begin to respond. But not to blame officials who have issued in these proceedings; and I think they are very correct. I must admit that I find it strange, even for the Members of this Parliament, who have strongly supported this position of the proposer, some have been unbelievably inconvenient and unfair to officials. The construction permit is incomplete, as one can say today, stating that it is not a mangled route and so on. It's not about the building permit. If we look at it because we like to get in touch and want to pass on Austrian practice, in Austria you get a building permit on both sides. What are we doing in Slovenia? The more difficult the facility is, you have 30 pages; disaster. The fact is, there are things in there that are completely unnecessary; and here, too, there is probably something waiting for us because the morning theme was digitisation and so on. As regards these applicants and so-called civil initiatives, Alpe Adria Green. Here I make public my past experience, I don't speak at present. With this civil initiative — the worst possible. Alpe Adria Green was always involved as a party intervener in the process of demanding construction permits. You know why? For delaying the procedure and perhaps for other interests. I must admit, I have also seen the footage of the parental committee, as the representative of the Alpe Adria Green is the former councillor of the SDS Council. It doesn't bother me at all that we're completely exposed; however, it bothers me that in this administrative process everything is wrong, that in the Ljubljana Administrative Unit I don't know what is going on; or it was said – Jankovic's administrative unit, even something like that. That's unacceptable. The separation between the state, administrative procedures and local communities is no different than in Postojna, Maribor, Lenart or Ljubljana. Not only is he physically separated; so is the procedure. I allow that in smaller local spheres or local communities, mayors may have a greater impact on administrative units; but I know that in Ljubljana, if I talk about our time, we have had a lot of problems with cooperation with mayors in relation to the state through the chiefs. And I also believe, as I mentioned earlier, when the head of the Ljubljana Management Unit was a party colleague of SDS for three years, that there was nothing different, no favoritism but consistent respect for the principle of legality. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Now Dr. Anja Logar asked for the floor. For the replica? You don't have a replica. You can only have a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. Now I want to make it clear that I'm launching a pre-election campaign right now, Comrade Verbic, but it's a little under the belt, but it's a little under the belt. I think you were working on one of the banks that didn't make the bank hole, but you know, 18 months. 18 months ago there was no election, the election was 12 months ago, one year ago. We have been alerting this issue very early in the parliamentary rounds, but I started to point this out 18 months ago with questions from the Members of Parliament. But I do know a former Member who comes from your kind. Dragan Matić was named chief inspector, which was exactly one year ago, here I have his Facebook page, exactly one year ago, for the first time in his life he came to Kleče and on his Facebook wrote: The route takes place in the subterranean area and is completely uncontrollable, the impotent owners of the overturned fields and gardens are put before the fact. Next, in the following week’s publication: Safety in such cases must not be relatively good or excellent, but absolute; nor should the youngest risk be allowed to drain sewage into precious drinking water supplies. Next, again in one week: It would certainly be even better if the mayor thought about an alternative route that would not endanger underground supplies, from which the people of Ljubljana have been supplied with water for 130 years, of which quality is excellent in European scale. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your client colleague who spoke about this exactly one year ago, nothing before the elections, and then nothing. You know, we recently made a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the City Council on topic C0. Do you know that Mr Matić has not signed this request? Do you know Masha Kociper didn't sign this request? Do you know that Koprivc from SD did not sign this request? But it's not amazing. Then you're telling me political action. In fact, I understand that you didn't want to talk about channel C0, because your wife is the saint of the List of Zoran Jankovic, and as such she voted for these projects. But not then in this way try this very frank debate today in the National Assembly to politicize. Because what you've done now, you've made an absurd politicisation of the debate and stood up as a defender of an official office that works as well as it can. I have this building permit here, I told you, the minister told you - a demanding facility. Ask your colleague Matić – a demanding object. On the building permit, however, there is a less demanding object. There's 300 plots next to the locks. Besides, to keep 29 people hot. What about the others? But let the rest of them watch as they build up their territory, or how?Oh, my God! Officialism must be respected. Not if they're doing it wrong, if they're doing it wrong, you don't have to. I agree with you, though. Yes, the procedures are clear, the administrative procedure is clear. It should go like that, like that, like that. But in this case, it didn't work. I'll just give you one case. We also have democratic elections in Belarus, and we also have a multilateral system. How many have come to Parliament? Just one of the main parties. What if we have a multi-party democratic election?Oh, my God! This is also the case in Slovenia when the right people appear in the right places. As I said, every time we detect some corruption business, scandals, big business, sorry, always the Jankovic family, whether your wife is on the list a hundred times or never. The Jankovic family is always there. I had nothing to do with it. All I can do is open it, see it, know it, and say it. And then I'm not trying to relativize by defending the office or anything. No, let's be honest. Let's be honest, be honest with your minister. He himself said in response to the question of the Member State that it was wrong for the route to be wrong. And when you defend this building permit that everything is all right; once again, from the president of your spouse in the city world, what he said, I quote: “It is absolutely true that building permits have already been obtained in contravention of the European legal order, for which it is solely the responsibility of the state or, in particular, the ILO and the SVRK.” Yes, because Mayor Jankovic says everything is wrong with these building permits. But he's just building because he's probably benefiting from it. Let's be honest about this. And there's another mistake. It wasn't the O.P.N. in 2018. That information is wrong, too. You read it wrong. 2010 because the case was at the referendum. And imagine, already in 2010, someone planned that the sewer would flow through the Ljubljana aquifer. It's already 2010. But he softened the test a little bit so that he eventually gave birth to such building permits; without an environmental impact assessment, and so on, that he could build it. In the parliamentary debate, I am known not to squander these or those, but to detect irregularities. And I must admit that I am very disappointed with the way this topic is being politicized today by my colleague Verbic, I'm sorry, I have to admit that. Because if something's wrong, something's wrong. Or if your wife's on that list or if she's not, it doesn't matter. Anyway, it doesn't matter. If something is wrong, it is necessary to get to the bottom of the matter; but whether because you want to reverse it, you are also willing to support this project and that sewerage runs through the water cover. Are you prepared to accept this? I am not, and I am very pleased to hear that other fellow Members are not; I am very pleased. This is a minimum condition that something will really change, that the ministry will really do something. I hope that the people who run the ministry and run the inspectorate will stand by their own words. That Chief Inspector General Dragan Matić will be behind the words he has made public and still hang on his Facebook page. That the Minister will do what we charge him today and that the water which the Minister has proposed will be protected, and you too have proposed amending the Constitution, paragraph 70a. And that's the only thing, dot, dot; we don't need anything else. The only thing I said was that I would be very careful whether the Minister would act in accordance with these conclusions, which I hope we will accept today or not. Just that and no politicization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Franci Kepa. And after him, she'll get the word "Anja Bah Gibert." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. I salute the Minister, the Secretary, my colleagues and my colleagues! I am also convinced that sewage should not be built in this water protection area. It was probably a mistake at first because this terrain is functioning, it's not stable. I think there should be a second route for those four kilometers that are burning. And it must be this route, and we should do it. If this has not been done in the beginning, this must be done now and the construction done illegally, because the minister himself admits that they do not have the full building permit, they do not have the services of the people, but the spear, the spear is expanding as it should be, you have the service permit for 6 meters, you bury 15 meters and more. As far as the construction process is concerned. As has been said since the beginning when the investor submits a procedure for building on the municipality for local information, carried out by an official in the municipality, if the investor writes that he has a demanding or simple facility, the official in the municipality must assess what is right. He writes what this object is like, and he writes location information as well as guidelines for all consents and influences. The affected area, as far as Arsa is concerned, must also write this in the location information. The official shall also be responsible, or his superior, for this procedure. There's no way someone can do that. This procedure has to run as fast as it goes on the stage. It can also be done later to resume the procedure, as has been said. If some of the procedures have been failed or silenced in the meantime, the procedure may also be renewed. Here it is said that construction is not yet legal, even in this area, on these four kilometers, where the water protection area is. Neither is the service, but it's done in cowboy style, it's already done, people aren't asking questions, it's done, the pressure's done with the police. It better be the police on the southern border where they're missing, like they're standing there with pressure on people. Even old parents and parents knew that water and wells were not built together, because sooner or later there could be some influence; and this was done separately. The area here is unstable, it shouldn't be built here, and we should find another direction. Because it is currently only an area for 300, 400 000 or more Ljubljanans and it is unnecessary to play for possible pollution in the future. Also, the NGOs — well, I also have an opinion on the NGOs — showed these photos on the committee we had. And even now you can see the connections between the pipes and already there's deformation, and there's not a sewer down there yet. Those casinos aren't gonna help. Because it's an unstable terrain, it's going to come up because of the groundwater, and it's also an earthquake area, which is another very difficult thing. It's unacceptable for us to be working here for these two things. As Mr Bandelli said, these cassoons are placed on a terrain where the rock is hard, but not loose, where the rod is raised; and, as was said, they are making a zigzag route, and they are even bigger bars on the curves. I think we should stop all activities. As Minister, you have this power, the opportunity to stop building and find another route that will not be harmful to water. This water is very high-quality according to analysis. It must be maintained and the sewerage carried out in an area where there is no danger. However, if Ljubljana has to take some pipes out, Jankovic should also return a million to the rehabilitation of this building, as it was written down to tens of millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. And for her, he'll get the word Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I would ask myself the same question as my colleague Monica Gregorčič when she asked how this was possible. I would ask myself that too, if I were not fully aware that I live in Slovenia. This is only possible in Slovenia. And this is only possible in the most beautiful city in the world, in Ljubljana; and this is only possible because we have Jankovic. And we have Jankovic, which is why it's possible. And that's why things like this happen. Imagine, colleagues and colleagues doing something like that in Vienna. And we'd take it all away so there wouldn't be anyone anywhere else. But with us, that's possible. I must say, somehow I'm really disappointed in the debate of my fellow mags. A Verbicha, which I liked to listen to, but today he surprised me. He surprised me very much when he talked about the correct issue of building permits, about officials actually doing everything right. They may be wrong sometimes, you said, they make a mistake, but here I don't believe in mistakes. I don't believe in mistakes here. If a building permit doesn't have all the consents, it's not a mistake. This is willful conduct and willful conduct, for no one will tell me that they do not know from whom they must get consent for service or for the way in which they will dig. And the fact that someone is digging into someone's land today who hasn't agreed to this is not normal. And that's not the kind of thing that should happen in the country. Minister Zajc, I'm going to directly invite you in this case to actually stop Jankovic. Stop Jankovic because he poses a threat to Ljubljana, poses a threat to citizens and citizens and poses a threat to the environment in which we live. Today, he poses a threat to this project. It is true that the case started in 2010 but, as Dr. Ange Logar’s colleague said, the fact is that at the time only fine meats were prepared and the test was ready for further development. This calvary began at that time, and with every new procedure and authorisation, it continued to have its own dimension. And today, what is actually happening is unacceptable and frightening. Channeling and main water area. And something else, since 2010, if all those who have so advocated writing clean water into the Constitution in 2016 and taken it as a great achievement; the writing of unclean water, I have to correct myself, because even the ministry has told me that my question is not pure water at all, but it is drinking water. Besides, I don't understand that, drinking and clean water, I think water has to be clean if we want it to be potable. But let's leave it, that was the answer. Even today, I'm getting dizzy, how is that possible, and yet. If all those who were then involved in writing this into the Constitution were involved in this project, which Jankovic is doing, they would do much more than is enshrined in the Constitution. Because what helps citizens today is that the right to drinking water is enshrined in the Constitution, but if on their lands someone can dig, build, destroy, whatever they may have created without being allowed to do so. And all those who were beating each other's chests when you put this record into the Constitution, if you were involved with this project, you'd do a lot more. Because it would probably be this project if we were to do what is right – and I believe that you and many are honest – has already been stopped. But of course it is not, and I think that certain procedures, Minister, can stop things from being looked at, to require additions and to find a different solution. You know, it's not the devil, I'm going to go to the budget, and the last time we heard that on the Committee on Finance, one of the amendments just wanted to move from the Valley of Shale to the Cologne. That's what's going on with us. Whatever goes in there, we'll just give it to me somewhere else. And that's what the secretary and secretary are saying if you can't do otherwise. The amendment that was adopted here, in the National Assembly, is said to be at the temple of democracy, the Secretary of State has decided that she will not take this into account and that what she will transport elsewhere. Of course, only perseverance, respectable, led to the sudden finding of a solution. And it's happened the way it should have been at the beginning. It's just one of the cases. So no one is going to convince me today that there is nothing more to be done here. Nobody. It is true, however, that just as Arsa kneeled, the minister may kneel and the whole government may kneel. Yeah, it's true. We got Jankovic. And clearly Jankovic can do everything, while other citizens and citizens have yet to fight for the basic building permit. And Dr. Verbich, that's it. You yourself mentioned in the debate that this is a demanding construction project. According to Jankovic, this is not a demanding facility; it is a less demanding project. That's how it was done. What we are now saying is that this is a demanding project. It was all right; then it is a less demanding project if everything is always the same as you said. But it is not, of course, necessary to protect certain interests. It saddens me, however, that this is done on the shoulders of citizens and citizens. Ljubljana is indeed the capital, unfortunately not the most beautiful city in the world. I'm afraid he's got a problem with Mayor Jankovic. And unfortunately, sewerage can be built literally where an important source of clean drinking water is collected. Welcome to Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President. On the part of the proposer, and even now, the debate went slightly different from my substance. I have discussed, discussed and reasoned on the administrative procedure for issuing a specific building permit. And once again, the official who worked on this has respected all applicable legislative rules, including regulations, in a specific case. If this had not been done, once again, I ask, everything is governed by the principle of legality, and by the one who is in any way in violation of his right, including those found today – and I also admit that it is unacceptable that without any permission there can be no interference with property rights – where were they with the complaints when the matter was issued? Regular or extraordinary legal remedies. We can deal with politics in one way or another or blind ourselves. And the fact is that, at the time before the issue of the building permit, the administrative authority had four hearings where it had called on the owners it had examined by e-mail, which was available to the administrative authority, invited them and presented them at four hearings, and in particular wanted to obtain information from them in any way, information if any matter was disputed so that the building permit could not be issued. That was my point. No mayor, nothing Jankovic and everything. I've had a lot of trouble talking about administrative procedures, but that's not the point right now. This is a matter for an individual who takes up a particular position and depends on how he stands. Either he puts himself in the position of having the authority he has, or otherwise. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's more of a blur. The 2004 and 2005 Buildings Act, as far as the parties are concerned, I think the applicant has read it and the question is whether others, which is very clearly stated in this building permit: “The Administrative Authority notes that the other invited parties have not responded to the invitation”, I speak from the Land Book, “although they have been properly and in time.” The Authority adds that it received a certain return at the oral hearings, but it follows from the dates that all the writings were served in a timely manner and were alerted to the consequences. Here I would like to stress in particular the consequences of their absence if they are not justifiable; therefore, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 63 of the 2004 Construction Act, they are considered to agree with the intended [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u49	Mr. Verbich, time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u50	So much for this part alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u52	Thank you. I'm not going to continue this debate anymore, but given how my colleague Verbič defended himself scrupulously, I would say that the matter obviously stinks even more than it should. It is necessary to know that colleague Verbič was the chairman of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit. In a way, he is now defending his colleagues who have done this, which is understandable, which is somehow understandable. However, it was with this implementation that he said the essence of it. He said, "By e-mail, they called the limiters. Do you know who's there? Farmers. Do you know what they're doing? Potatoes, salads, tractors, crops. Do you think that while they drive and collect potatoes, they watch via online mail: Jankovic wants to build you a canal there, give you 14 days to respond. If you don't respond, then it's considered as if you agree. No, no. That's why this procedure is the way it is. Because all those 300 plots bordering on these meanders on this path were somehow played out and then with a very small portion of the owners it struck. All the others, who didn't know, who didn't work in the administrative unit and don't look at the e-mails during business hours, but didn't know; but only after they started collecting potatoes and they saw that the bagger roars on their way, they started wondering what was going on here. And this, Your Honor, is in a country where property rights are enshrined in the Constitution and where you must have the right to speak on this matter, is unacceptable, and be a hundred times the chairman of the administrative unit, and this time defend your colleagues, Košičko and others. I'm sorry, they kicked hard in the dark here or did what one of them asked. And I hope this politicization stops now, because I think we're not on the right side. If we're on the water side, then I think it's right that we're talking about how to protect the Ljubljana pipeline against a project that's wrong by default. And here I think that we all agree, regardless of color, smell and taste, that we can all agree, and we can also give these conclusions to the ministry the authority to do what the Ministry should do in fact in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Franz Beznik has the floor. And after him will be spoken by Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much. If I look at my last two mandates, in the previous term, I have listened only to meetings on the right to healthy, clean, drinking water, constitutional category, and these were also expressions that we find in Parliament, most of the time from colleagues from SMC, who at the time had the majority. This was discussed in a large part of the mandate and nothing else. Today we have the first test of whether the right to healthy, clean, drinking water is a constitutional category for which I have no problems. It's his first test here, in the National Assembly, where we voted for it. More, including constitutionally defined human rights, are intertwined here. One of the issues is also, at least as far as constitutional matters are concerned, also the category of private property; this was the last part of this debate. Constitutional human rights are also the right to a healthy environment in which we live. And now we're going into this extremely, completely misguided procedure of issuing a building permit. Now talk or point your finger; look, I will logically, the farmer logically tell you what happened here. If you've put one wrong formula into some equation or you've given one wrong information, then this story is ultimately wrong. It is wrong in the sense that someone has confirmed that it can be a simple construction facility and through simple building permits a construction process or administrative procedure, as some have claimed. You can run it very well, very good quality. But the officials led him through a simple construction project. The difference between 800 millimeters and a thousand 200 millimeters, as far as the diameter of these tubes is concerned, is this. If we look at what can happen most often. If all these cracks occur, I also believe my colleagues, my colleague who spoke before me, is a construction engineer, which is 200 liters per second of sewage. It is not only about biological wastes, you Ljubljanans are known to have the most cocaine in waste in the European scale, this is also very interesting. I think that's why you sometimes react very late to such things. This is about the rest of the vomit, and I'm not pointing my finger at anyone. 200 liters per second, 12 thousand litres per minute, 720 thousand litres per hour, in 24 hours before a break of such a pipe would be poured into the groundwater on a watertight area of 17 thousand 280 cubic metres. One day. How's that going? This insight and then monitoring detects what is happening to us in the countryside. I live in the congregation of Cerkvenjak, we have in one part, in Cogetinci we have a village water supply, a relatively good source, relatively healthy water. We have a slightly larger hardness in the chemical composition, so it's a little bit more mineralized, which is good for human health, for machines, maybe a little bit worse; but also because of the scattered construction of the crevices, it happens to us that there is an intrusion of feces into our drinking water. You know, I wouldn't want 270 thousand Ljubljanans, even though we have a little bit of a thought about Ljubljanans, to get a letter from the municipality, where they tell some 100 people who use water from this vassal water in our department, that there are more than 10 coli bacteria in this water, more than 100 coli-form bacteria in this sample, cloudiness, ammonia and so on. If we further elaborate, respected colleagues, Ljubljana has the Oncology Institute, Ljubljana has the UKC as a top institution, as you say, Ljubljana has the Paediatric Clinic, Ljubljana has a large number of pensioners with a damaged or very weak immune system. People who are chronic patients who are being treated, you know that just a few little things in the immune system, say a patient at the Cancer Institute, which is at the lowest point, can lead to premature death. You know what you're playing with. Before you talked about Vienna, look, Ljubljana built you Franz Joseph, after the 1896 earthquake Ljubljana finally got some European image. I hope that colleagues who are architects will agree. At that time, he sent three of his best architects to Ljubljana, who had broken down those few houses and set a standard of 12 meters, as was the case in Austro-Hungarian, 12 meters in relation to the width of the streets and built Ljubljana. Ljubljana was known and can be compared to Vienna in healthy, clean drinking water. The Danes are extremely proud, the Danes mostly extract drinking water from the so-called Lower Istrian and Styrian Alps, which runs through Wienerwald and over 30 large reservoirs, huge, hold up a two million city with healthy, clean drinking water. Quality of life, Vienna has been seven times since I accompanied it, by 2016 chosen to be the world's best quality capital. 39 categories, two most important – healthy, clean drinking water and social housing. Vienna has about 860 thousand apartments, of which about 400 thousand are apartments of social housing that young families can rent. I would not like to compare in this particular area, we are also talking, of course, about the quality of urban transport, the flow across the ring, across the subway, not to explain further. Dear Ljubljanans, we warn you, after all the disasters that have happened to humanity, after all the great accidents, people always come together, look at it and say a famous sentence. This famous phrase has always been said in all disasters: Now it is what it is. Let's leave the past behind. Let's keep looking. Those are the words. Now it's what it is. This happened in all those when Professor Milicinski came to the top of Mont San Pietro to look at the disintegrating of Adria's plane in Corsica in 1981, and in many fatal accidents in the railroad, traffic, when your neighbor went wild ten times through the same curve of guilt, then it happens, and then everyone says – Now it is what it is. We are here today to never repeat this sentence in Ljubljana. I don't want that in my capital. As Styrian, I want this city to be known under any mayor by sound drinking water to develop its housing policy, smart traffic and everything else. I wish you well, and I don't want to be a Styrian because we didn't have that chance. We have now fought in the Slovenian Democratic Party and colleagues from Nova Slovenije for a number of rural municipalities to perhaps get quality water supply, even those who do not have to deal with such letters so that these mayors can have at least some additional resources so that they can give their citizens and citizens the environment that Ljubljana has long ago. Ljubljana has everything and is playing with health, with water resources, with all the money it has, just because someone along the line of least resistance would conclude the project as soon as possible, to recharge their pockets, so that this European money will be spent as soon as possible in order to carry out a completely non-transparent process, which is a mistake, we have found that. Dear colleagues, four days ago, all Members saw this passage, which Jankovic's house builders say was built. So the transition to Šubičeva, the view towards Cankar's home. You've all been able to look at a simple passage that hasn't survived a winter or survived the first freeze. All the plates outside a stone, they're all peeled. The plates were hanging, the foundation was literally completely possessed, the plates were deadly for any traffic. The security officers of the National Assembly immediately called on the Municipality of Ljubljana, calling all day for someone to finally report that they had gone to fix one record. There could have been a disaster in the meantime. And now let me to these house builders who can't even build or install 20 stone plates in front of Parliament, I trust that all of these will bring in and make a relatively demanding project like building this sewer through a watertight area, forgive the expression, yes, I don't trust them. They've already failed the simplest exam. Everything I see is falling into some kind of disaster. Whatever I was studying, when the greatest disasters occurred, they never happened from one perspective. There were always dice in that disaster. One mistake, another mistake, another mistake, and finally something that we don't want happens. Dear colleagues, today there was a test of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the right of citizens and citizens to healthy, clean drinking water and to maximum conservation of these resources in Slovenia. On this test today, we will show whether we believe exactly what we have written in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Get Joseph Horvath ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u56	Thank you. Some more of my questions and concerns about channel C0. My colleague Verbic talked about administration, about officials who work well. Under seven building permits, a signed mag. Ladislav Košiček, Chief of Management Unit Moste - Polje, who is supposed to be a friend or former associate of David Polutnik, today head of the Department of Economic Activities and Transport in the Municipality of Ljubljana. The Head of the Cohesion Sector at the Ministry of the Environment is Mr Tomaž Prodan, who ran for the Fourth Committee in Šiška in November 2018. My friend Verbich is protecting the officers. We protect them when they're doing good. Here there is a suspicion that some things could have gone through because someone knew someone; and this would not have been the first time with Mr Jankovic. You're also defending the MOL office. Since MOL first wrote that it was a less demanding object and later this changed. How did these officials work? They did not know that it was a demanding object, although after all the definitions of sewerage with a pipe diameter of more than 800 millimetres, it was one of the demanding objects. This is very clearly defined by the Regulation. The diameter of the channel tube C0 exceeds 800 millimetres by as much as 400 millimetres. The width of the channel tube C0 is a thousand 200 millimetres. Therefore, it is not clear why the Administrative Unit of Ljubljana issued such a building permit and whether it was only a random error. And I'm also wondering if the officials knew this wouldn't have gone through the administration if they hadn't written it down as a less demanding facility. So this office has done just as well, as you say, and we mustn't question that?Oh, my God! Probably not. And if it later turned out that it was not a less demanding object and things had changed, why did the whole process not come back up again, as the various experts who were presented in Targeta have said about it, or are they also appearing through other media in these days? Then why can we question the building permit? That's exactly why. It has already been said that all owners were not informed and did not give their consent. The representative of Voka, however, says that all owners have been informed that they have signed service contracts, which is a lie. Because if that were true, people would not protect their lands, that is, those who did not sign the services with the city congregation. Therefore, we can question the validity or integrity of officials in issuing this building permit or seven, but there is still no building permit for part, even though things are being built. We will have to talk very specifically about responsibility and names, even though Mr Prijon said on television yesterday that it is very difficult for a certain official or to make someone feel guilty if something happened. In the audit, the Ministry found suspicions of irregularities. Something you want to talk about, something not because there will be different procedures, but yesterday on TV, Mr Prijon, you also said that the procedures have already begun with the previous Minister Leben, now Mr Zajc is dealing with it. What are we gonna wait for another minister to save something? How long are you going to do this now? This time it will be done because we know that Mr Jankovic is not looking at anyone, he is building it, we know – domestically, by exploiting and blackmailing usually. Because of his democratic ways, people even committed suicide. That's how he did it in the Contingency case. If we remember correctly, in the case of the Contingencies, we returned European funds because things were not doing what they were supposed to do. We'll almost certainly bring them back here, but it's important when the ministry reacts and does something. Yesterday in the show, you said that a whole bunch of very serious suspicions had arisen and that you would explore all of this. Let's hope so sometime. And when we see some of the results of this, whether we're going to stop the matter, or if it's actually going to happen, then we're going to spend millions on never actually going to go there, because we're going to find that things aren't right. Why does he judge environmental impacts? Yesterday, the show also said that MOL submitted an application in the summer on Arso for the approval of a protective measure for the installation of canals in the concrete sarcophagus, another matter. At first, the pipes were placed in the sand when people complained and said that this would not be watertight or anything else, they remembered – OK, but we will put in these concrete sarcophagus so that you will be a little calmer. That's why Voka sent a role to Arso if we can do these extra protective measures, and then she took it away, but now she's doing it. We're working on concrete sarcophagus. Does any building permit say that's how it's gonna be? A bunch of things from home or cowboy stuff, like someone said, like we used to from the Ljubljana mayor. Mr Prijon, you also said yesterday: Of course, there is no doubt that it is necessary to make an environmental impact assessment for such a project. So if there's no doubt about it and there's no doubt about it, what are you gonna do? You also said yesterday on the show that the minister is not on the air because he's preparing for today's session. I'd like to ask you to come forward and comment on what we're asking. Or what he was preparing for, I don't know?Oh, my God! You have no doubt that a environmental impact assessment should be made for such a project; and this is not the case. What do we do now? If that's not enough reason to do something and the Ministry does something and your inspector does something, then I don't know what it is. Or maybe you're not serious about this. I would like to ask some answers to questions not only me but also my colleagues; that is why you are here. We can speak to ourselves whenever we want to, in the parliamentary groups and so on; now we are talking to the public and also asking you to answer the questions that have been posed to you. I will, of course, support the conclusions proposed by us. However, I hope that the country will move as quickly as it can in some minor matters; but not here where it really needs to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to publicly thank the City Council and the City Council of Ljubljana, Mrs Mojca Sojer and Mr Jože Horvat, who, as a member of the Group, gave us a detailed briefing on all these procedures, unfortunately the irregularities in the construction of this unfortunate channel C0. I'm not going into technical detail. That's actually not a topic today. However, the discussion was about alternatives today. The City Councilwoman and the City Councillor of New Slovenia told me that there are alternatives. First, fecal water should be taken from Vodice to the cleaning plant in Domžale, which was therefore designed and a large majority of the canal has already been built. Secondly, the fecal waters of Medvod are now led under Celovská cesta and the solution is appropriate and need not be guided through the water protection area. Thirdly, the construction of C0 should be stopped immediately, the work should be done by the Ministry of Environment and Space, Administrative Unit Ljubljana, Arso, Criminal Police, Jaspers. I would like to thank you here, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, also our colleague, Dr. Anžet Logar. This is his project, even though it's a meeting of the National Assembly. Our assessment is that this is actually the first measure, otherwise it is not legislative, but the first measure after exactly three years and one weeks ago, we wrote in the Constitution a new 70.a. and wrote down the right to drinking water. We did not support this record because we said it was a matter of normal state; and at the time we assessed — and even today — that it was just a manifestation for the public. I am also proving this today because the constitutional law states that the government must, within 18 months of that date, be prepared or adapted to all laws, that this 70th article in the Constitution is actually being implemented in some way, because the Constitution is not an enforceable act. This was not in either 18 months or three years. And as we say, what we now have on the table is the first measure, where it is very clear, thank God, the policy has been unified – we want to protect the water source. We must first protect this if we are to guarantee everyone the right to drinking water. And it is incomprehensible, colleagues and colleagues, that I really care from day to day more that the National Assembly is becoming increasingly frequent and more and more of the cases where we are actually performing our investigative function, we are pointing to the atrocities, the irregularities, the criminal acts that are taking place in our society. It seems that the basic legislative function is already in the minority. So many investigative committees that are needed, unfortunately, are so many extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly committees that are necessary to expose irregularities and expose the barabbas. Unfortunately, we also seem lonely. At the parliamentary level, the stories end, bankers continue to work. One case. And if I have already entered the Slovenian Constitution on the third anniversary of drinking water rights, we have another third anniversary, namely, three years ago Ljubljana was declared the green capital of Europe 2016. At that time, Mr Zoran Jankovic said in victory that the title is a great honour and joy and that he is extremely proud of the sustainable achievements of everyone in Ljubljana, “not only do we take excellent care of the most beautiful place in the world, but we have proved in Copenhagen that sustainable green Ljubljana projects can be a model for many European cities. The recognition of Europe has made us one of the best. The victory of Ljubljana proves that our sustainable direction and our work together is recognized and increasingly appreciated beyond our borders." End of quote or address by Mr Jankovic. You know, I didn't think that this recognition was just the 2016 Green Capital of Europe. I explained in my mind that this is true for the whole future, because from here on out it started and we're at channel C0. We in New Slovenia are aware of what drinking water means. If we look globally, on our planet Earth is only 2.5% of drinking water. Of these, more than two thirds are frozen in glaciers and ice sheets. Now to European funds. I must say that in eastern Slovenia or more precisely, in the eastern cohesion region, the mayors almost attacked me, how is it possible that Zoran Jankovic could get European funds very quickly, these were as much as 60 million; simple, ordinary mortals, mayors of small rural communities, and peripheral municipalities are not accessible, and they are not yet available; and they are not yet available. Do you imagine what this means, not just for mayors, but for citizens living outside of Ljubljana? It's humiliation, it's humiliation. I am extremely pleased to say today that, of course, the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will support this complementary proposal of all four recommendations. And I'm glad the politics here has united. We used to have similar meetings, and the recommendations did not come from the committee, from the working body; today we have this and today we have Slovenian policy behind these recommendations. This is the strongest foreign exchange that can be given to the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Government and we demand that these recommendations be implemented in a consistent manner. We will oversee this, and you have power here, a strong foreign currency, because you can say - we have a parliament in the back. If we have parliamentary democratisation, what is written here must be done 100 per cent; and we will monitor it. I know it's not easy, I know. You have inherited many things, but in some ways you have, once again, this strong foreign currency – you have a parliament at the back. If the mayor of the most beautiful city in the world is stronger than this Parliament, then we no longer have parliamentary democracy. Colleagues and colleagues, although Friday evening, the topic is extremely topical, exceptional. I hope that what we will jointly confirm today will be just proof that in certain cases we know how to identify the bastards and that we must not allow them. And that this is a very clear signal from the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that we will step on our fingers to everyone and everyone who goes to any sheriffship, even if it will be a similar meeting every week. Once again, colleague Anja, congratulations!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u60	Thank you. I just want to say that this isn't my project. In fact, I am very opposed to this project, but probably my colleague Horvat was thinking about today's meeting. And here I'd say it's not my project. This is due to the fact that we have clean water in Ljubljana and that we want to protect clean water. If it's just my project, he's doomed to failure at first. This can be our joint project if these conclusions are received today in as large a number as possible, i.e. unanimously; and in some ways we are also committing the Minister to do something. And only in this case can we indirectly implement this constitutional category of drinking water; however, if the Ministry does not take this responsibility here as it has been said in the Constitution, then the Ministry assumes this responsibility. Once again, I do not want the story to end here, in the National Assembly, as is the case with one banking investigator; but I want the Ministry to continue or use these conclusions to carry out what is right, what needs to be done, what is said by a healthy farmer's intelligence and what legislation ultimately says. If someone violates the law, I don't understand the tolerance of the one who's breaking the law; and just because he's come to somewhere, let's let him get to the end. I do not accept it here, and today I understand that not everyone here in this National Assembly is taking it, which I think is a good starting point.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Get Daniel Krivec ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Good evening. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I think it's right that we might pour some pure wine anyway. There were quite a few offensive tones to the minister. I don't think that's right, because the team that was responsible for granting the building permits that we're talking about today is no longer in these chairs. It is only to commend that we have another team that certainly knows what they are doing; and as we have seen, it immediately launched all the procedures that are envisaged. Today, however, we all agree that water is truly an invaluable asset and must be provided to all. I agree that this aspect of drinking water as constitutionally protected rights is most important, but today it is not on the test, as my esteemed colleague Breznik said, because this test is not necessary. We know that water will put this test through because it's really untouchable because we put it in the Constitution. As soon as a number of warnings were received from local people and environmental organisations and warned that the planning was inadequate and that the implementation was also problematic, there were procedures that began to follow things and seek a solution. I am calm because the Minister for Environment and Space has requested clarification of all open issues and procurement is also a procedural audit, which has also shown results that are perfectly clear. There has been a suspicion of irregularities in the design, decision-making, implementation. We are at the point of just asking ourselves what more could we possibly do at this point, because as a former designer and probably the future, it is completely unclear why this comprehensive system is being addressed in several different construction permits. This is simply not normal because we know that the sewage system starts at the first toilet and ends up on the cleaning machine. And that can't be shared because the system just works like a whole. This system, the space system, every system is complete. This concern is entirely justified that something is wrong. As we see today, and we all agree, the stench has begun to follow us. And it's not the smell of the contents of the sewer, it's the smell of the process of how this sewer is being built, the smell of paperwork in connection with this sewerage and the smell of a certain diversion, which can also be detected when we're talking about this sewer. It is certainly a questionable and worrying and unacceptable absence of an environmental impact assessment. I would like to remind you that when a building permit is obtained for any intervention, even if it is small, it is always estimated what impact it will have on its environment. Of course, not through the judgment required for sewerage, but I must say that those who decide to grant a building permit are very much committed to examining all aspects. In my practice, I had a case where one who granted a building permit asked, of course, the complaint of a noble neighbour, that the reflection of the sun from the glass house next door on the complainant's garden would, in fact, be the complainant's; and it stopped, for example, the issue of a building permit. So we go into this precision, and then when it comes to sewerage, which threatens to almost become Ljubljana's Fukushima, all of a sudden things get pretty vague and blurry. The ancient Romans also built sewers, and at first they thought very carefully about where they would put this cloaca maximo; and therefore, I think, from the experience that is 2,000 years old, that we probably don't have to explain why we're all so worried together. But it is true that we are concerned about one little less, the other a little more, depending on how far you live from this area, which is wrong. That is why I plead for everything when, if, at any time, there is a similar case at some other end, we are equally careful, whether we are in Prekmurje, in White Krajina, in Styria or in Primorska. I think we need to stress this on this occasion as well. Of course, the response of the National Assembly was not so impromptu, since the National Assembly responds to some other incantators. First it was someone else's turn to ask about it, but it didn't. And it is good that this has happened to us now, because this problem can really become a state problem, given the potential for poisoning, the cost of treatment, the damage caused in the natural environment. All of this is, of course, with one great and long coexistence of consequences that we must not overlook. And if it turns out that he has announced the law of power in this case, but not all other laws, then I think that we must all step aside to stop this project, to find the responsible ones and that there is also a recovery of all the costs that have been incurred. We in the flood of other laws, remember lex mortuary, lex Magna, lex that and that; in this regard we have no law, but we can all remember this as a very eloquent lesson. But we can also name it to forgive the assembly, lex drex; never again. I absolutely support this proposal, as does everyone in my Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Daniel Krivec. Get Gregor Perich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! It is very interesting to listen to today's debate. I would like to draw attention to some facts without going into some political debate. Some of you say that it immediately responded, we reacted quickly, the ministry is impractical; but you forget that it has been alerting this problem for two years. Ange had previously pointed out that 18 months after the first question, no one had responded. And you know why it's moved now? Because something happened in this Slovenia. If it hadn't happened to Krustovlje, I'd bet it wouldn't have been for this session, because everyone would still be shoving their heads into the sand and letting this project go. However, when an event occurred in Slovenia, which gave people little thought to what happened if something happened; and this matter about this aquifer is not as innocent as it used to be. Before that, neither did we, at least some of us, who are not directly concerned. However, some have warned about this and among them our best friend. But no one moved until it became a threat from there that some drinking water, which seems almost untouchable and somewhere away from consumers like the Coast, could appear as a serious problem. At that time, however, some people were able to do some common sense and that this issue is also a possible problem with the construction of sewerage through a aquifer in Ljubljana. I bet it wouldn't be this session if it weren't for that. You can smile, but that's a fact. And the other facts that are when you look at this documentation, I also respect my colleague Verbic, but today I cannot agree with him. I have also been mayor for many years, and I will not say how many projects we have been working on, including European projects. I know what kind of calvary to prove the building permits, but you have to go through the paperwork. Not to say I used to be the CEO of a utility company, or power lines, but it's a similar story. I've been an investor in this company for years, and he's been getting these stories. And when someone here explains to me that the officials have done their job, I say they haven't; but I don't see all the documentation. But if someone now explains to me that the clerk got the paperwork, he read it and he wrote it up - an unsolicited object; and it's okay for him. That's not true. Whoever's trying to get a building permit knows that an officer in the administrative unit is messing with everything if he wants to. But if he doesn't want to, he just reads the address and keeps counting. The same applies to Arso, and the same applies to other authorities. And here's the problem. On the front page, it's all nice, but the content isn't like that. Let's not talk about similar things, where some things are also replaced below. And if my colleague Verbič believes that if a 1,000-millimeter sewer says simple object on the project title, and that a normal official buys it, then he's very naive. That's not true. The one who's experienced this will say yes to me. Each administrative authority looks at the regulation, compares these things and eventually submits a thousand and one comment to the investor to complete it. That's the first one. Secondly, the one who dealt with the management body, the SVRK and so on, knows that in the case of some sewer water, it would be difficult for any municipality to sell SVRK to do so with three, five or here with seven construction permits per section. No one puts this through, except perhaps Ljubljana; or other than Ljubljana. I hope to sign that too, but we're moving on. While the administrative authority should find that some sections are even missing, as shown in the documentation. And if the official body doesn't find out, all we can say is that he's incompetent or that he did it on purpose; there's no other explanation. And the same applies to all the departments involved. And if there is a warning that some assessments have not been made, and someone is pushing his head into the sand, all we can say is that this is planned, intentional, or something else. Even when we hear people passing between the administrative unit and the city services in the Municipality of Ljubljana, this is also very interesting. But I'm not getting into this. Once again, when someone gets the paperwork on the administration unit, he doesn't just look at the address; at least I don't have that experience. And I know how they do referees in administrative units and what they look at. Sometimes they go into details that aren't in the domain or in the domain or they don't know them, but they go down, with all the normal citizens and with all the other investors. Apparently not in this case. Obviously, in this case, even dimensions can't read or see that it's a liner liner, and they don't even wonder why they're doing zigzags in the sewer. I'd like to know if any of you, when you're doing the drains at home, are doing the zigzag sewer, so that it's as long as possible. A lot of things are in this process, if we go to the content, we would say very directly that they smell; and this is very high. I hope that, on the basis of this debate and these facts that we have on the table, we will nevertheless go to the point that this matter is being investigated to the end, that the matter is stopped at this point, that the construction is checked You say – legal. [[…]] I can bring you a number of cases where someone complained about a legal building permit, the construction was not even allowed to begin. It went to the Constitutional Court. In the end, the building permit was lifted because they broke the law. So there's nothing misplaced that some people say can't be done. The Ministry has all the tools to prevent and stop all the solutions that are happening in between. From the normal pipeline, we're going to put up the cannelettes, and then someone says we're going to solve this with PZI in the end. Who's kidding, or what?Oh, my God! Before that, there was a talk about how the parties were called, and you will not believe it, we all know about this silence in the process, but this is only one way. When the official authority asks the owner or someone as an ignorant customer, this is always true. You didn't make a deal. Case solved. You won't believe it. It doesn't apply in the opposite direction. When an official authority does not reply within one month, the procedure shall not proceed. In the event that it moves forward by accident, that authority shall complain and proceed in a normal manner so as not to change; all the infringements are in here, unfortunately. Can we prevent it, or can we resolve it? I hope that with these conclusions, which I hope we will unanimously accept, we will be able to enable the Ministry to resolve this. Otherwise, I fear that all congregations will begin to take advantage. The next time I deal with some procedure involving Arso and the Ministry of Environment and Space, I'm gonna know what I'm gonna do to solve some things, but that's not right. We will all write that it is a less demanding object; and you will issue your consent. This is only in fairy tales or in the Municipality of Ljubljana and nowhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perich. Get Carla Urh ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u66	Vice President, thank you. Good-bye, everybody! I'd start with one thought first. We're all sitting here because we disagree. Because if we agreed on everything, we probably wouldn’t need the National Assembly, and we could solve a lot of questions differently. I am pleased, however, that we agree on this issue of clean water, and I hope to state something that if this entry into the Constitution were accepted today, I think there would be 90 votes of support for the entry of water into the Constitution for various reasons. One reason is that over the last period, we have all become increasingly aware of the importance of the environment, the clean environment and then the preservation of this environment that we have. Slovenia is relatively unpolluted, it has enormous wealth. It is the responsibility of all of us to maintain it as much as possible, so that those who follow us will have as much of it as possible. When some of you entered the right to water into the Constitution in the National Assembly, although the motivation was slightly different, those who also participated in this debate will remember that at the time it coincided with the time when some international trade agreements were adopted. There was also some risk, which has also proved to be a very serious threat in some countries, that water resources are privatised, that they are no longer some natural wealth available to the state and the citizens; but that some corporations that then have it for themselves are coming for their economic needs. This was the most powerful message that has also led many to see that this right to drinking water has been enshrined in the Constitution. Today, I am glad that this risk is no longer in Slovenia, but there are many other risks. One of these is that water is something that cannot be self-evident. We are even more aware of this fact in Istria, and we were aware of it even before the accident that took place in the summer, when that car or composition was turned over, and kerosene was spilled, which fortunately had not yet come into the system; I hope it will not come. This has made it very clear to all of us that we must respond to every such threat. And C0 is nothing but one of those threats. I am pleased that we are discussing this very seriously today because the impulses, messages, political calls to the competent authorities at the local level or at the state level, to such and other inspectorates, there have been no more. Civil initiatives have been set up, but this story of some broad support or attention at the national media scene has not been received, so this step has been taken here. I thank and congratulate all those who have helped in this process, because this has made it clear to all those who may have some creative ideas that these ideas will run into a very strong resistance. When I was preparing for a meeting today, as well as on a committee some week ago, I saw that there were many irregularities or very unusual trends in this process, both in the fact that the environmental impact assessment for this project was not done, which is extremely unusual. And it's also extremely unusual that when we build a remote connection or some sewer pipeline that's a long one, we don't have a single building permit to do that in segments. And yet there is no guarantee that this project will be carried out, that it will be carried out, that it has many turns. In short, I'm not gonna repeat everything we've heard today. The problem that arises must be solved. With the presence of the Minister and the Secretary of State here, I believe that this is a very serious signal, that they are aware of the seriousness of the situation and that, with all these messages that we are giving them today, they believe that we, too, are extremely serious, that we are also a support in the National Assembly; and at the same time, they have warned that we must do everything possible to solve this problem. How this problem will be solved, honestly, I don't know. I can also comment on the individual solutions that we have already heard today. One of these is to put an end to existing building permits to stop these activities. Of course, the one who has the right to build will complain and likely seek his right in court. And then the country will have to prove that there's some kind of proper procedure. If the state fails to do so, it means that there will be some compensation that the State or taxpayers will have to pay. I think if someone did something wrong, then he's the one who has to pay for these mistakes; not that it's a country or all taxpayers. That is why my expectation goes also in the direction of the Ministry that when it goes into some measure, in some solutions, it will find solutions that will be good for taxpayers as well. However, if I look a little more pragmatic, I am sure that some of the costs that would arise if, say, the Ministry estimated that there was no other solution than this solution that I described, that it would then fall as a burden on taxpayers, there would be a much lower burden on the loss of some European assets than for us to build such a sewer on some aquifer and then risk it. There's enough risk, let alone pollution. In such a case, that damage would be inappropriately greater. If we are talking about a category of several million potential compensations, it would be negligible compared to what would have happened in the event of pollution. Because when such pollution occurs, I do not know, but as I was able to find out, the water level of this drinking water in Ljubljana is relatively high; or from the ground level we do not need to go deep to get quality drinking water. And some sort of cleaning of this aquifer would take a while, we're talking about the '30s, '40s, '50s. I can't imagine how Ljubljana, with a wider region, could then solve the problem of drinking water. Since I know what it looks like in Istria, in the summer we are always very careful about how much time we leave the pipe open, how we also help ourselves with water resources from Croatia and how we are looking for a solution within Slovenia. And here again is the call to all those congregations that have this water source and can also enable Istria to see, not the business, but the solution of some of our constitutional rights. When we saw the conclusions at the meeting of the Committee, we agreed with them in the SMC or concluded that these conclusions may not even be sufficient; but that support should be given to the Ministry that it has practically 90 votes for itself in its activities, in order to carry out all the procedures; and that, in particular, those who have made a mistake in these procedures, it also initiates all the necessary procedures. Now, I have something else to say, because I think that this debate may not have been fully understood today. When an official takes some kind of procedure, he wants to drive it in a way that everything is in accordance with the law. At times, he may also be under pressure, and then the decision or act he takes is not what it should be. However, our responsibility as politicians is to make such an environment so that officials can decide in an appropriate manner, based on legislation. But when such situations arise, when someone is under some pressure that he cannot, he does not know or dares to articulate because he does not have any support to protect those people. However, we must certainly find those who then made some decisions, because here we see a lot of such decisions, which are extremely unusual, then show them within some appropriate procedures that this is not the way to work; and that they also take either responsibility or are responsible for it. When I discussed on the committee, I said that on the basis of this project we could issue a manual on how projects are not being implemented and how European funds are not being drawn up. And I am thinking very similar today, so I am pleased that this broad political support, which has also made clear to the Minister that he will be able to find the most optimal option with his team. I hope that it will be found within the framework of existing legislation. However, since we know that there are many surprises in Slovenia, it would not surprise me if we were also in a situation where the Minister had his hands tied. And then again we will be the ones who will be on the move and we will have to go across, either with any necessary changes or with as many changes as possible. In short, it's an area you can't play with. This is an unusual practice when it happened that environmental impact assessment in the construction of sewerage was not necessary, it was not done. That is why I am calling on everyone and also telling them that we will support every effort in the SMC as much as possible. And I also believe that all your colleagues, regardless of which part of your political space you belong to, will be constructive in this respect. Personally, I would like those pipes to stay where they are, or to move them away, because the risk of building on a aquifer is, in fact, sewerage, something that we find difficult to afford in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is Karl Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u68	Good evening, everyone! Don't worry, I won't be long, but I'm glad we're talking today about how we can't predict what happens over time when the sewer pipes get old, repent, spill their fluid into the water protection area. No one can predict this and no one can guarantee that it will not happen, because a fragile structure, such as sewerage, with all these forces accompanying it, will lead to this. I might cut it short because I've prepared quite a bit, but I'd say so. Me and you, respected colleagues and colleagues, are not any experts in such construction. Clean drinking water is the highest public interest. It is our responsibility to preserve this pure drinking water for children, grandchildren, and craftsmen. It's the simplest formula. As I had already said on the committee, when I was replacing my colleague, my nephew warned me and for the first time I said: "15 countries in one good week flew by, stopped and only one country drank tap water. Only in one country. In all the others, I had to buy bottled water. We should also be aware that this can happen quickly. The already catastrophic climate change situation, the pollution that comes from all kinds of winds, not that we are causing problems and pollution ourselves. The most important thing I can say is that in this construction there should be careful supervision, an expert assessment of all the influences, factors that occur there. However, common sense and concern for the environment must go beyond a narrow bureaucratic commitment. Pure drinking water, healthy food and green, and unspoiled nature are the most important. I wonder why Slovenia does not have a law prohibiting such acts. I wonder because I'm new and I'm in a similar situation in the congregation, in a place where I work and I work. And I think it's a really big obstacle to how you can't get enough of it in this way to stop it; it does. He forbids marriage and then we don't move around and there are letters going back and forth and I don't know what else. Construction is to be extended to the water protection area and all these matters are not to be covered; the point is to be taken. I think it makes sense to think about it. Dear High Council, I propose that drinking water and water protection areas be protected by the Water Act. We owe this kind of debt and we can also do this because today we are discussing how we are compatible, trying somehow to prevent great damage – pollution of the drinking water reservoir; for water is a gift of nature and priceless good. We must not leave it aside because it is our only treasure that enables us to live and survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The word is given by the government representative, Minister Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good evening. I hope there's no anger or severe blood, because I've listened to you so far, and I haven't spoken to you in the meantime. I thought it was important to hear all of you. And since there really wasn't some controversy with me, I didn't feel the need to answer anything. Finally, when there are more of you in the hall, I would go a little over all the procedures, through all the activities and through our future activities that will follow up on this project. And I hope to answer those things that you haven't gotten from us yet, you haven't learned and you're still interested. It is not true that we started this project at the Ministry only after the accident in Hrastovje took place in June of this year. I've been alerted to any irregularities regarding Project C0 since I was Secretary of State. At that time, it was pointed out that everything was not all right with regard to the procedures for issue in the previous procedure concerning the issue of building permits and the construction itself. At that time, I also pointed out this to the Minister at the time, and we decided to go to a review of our procedures, to see what was really true. There's a lot of people telling you what's wrong, there's a lot of experts for everyone, but it's hard to make decisions like that, so we went to this audit. The revision of our procedures had two main purposes. The first objective was to verify the integrity of the Ministry's declaration made in 2016 as the competent water management authority under the Framework Water Directive, in Appendix 2 to the role of investors in co-financing the Cohesion Fund project, to verify in the procedures that there will be no deterioration of groundwater or surface water conditions and that good water conditions will not be achieved. The second purpose of this audit was to improve the internal procedures systems of the Ministry in the area of prior environmental impact assessments on the Ars. And issuing water consents or opinions at the Water Directorate. And the result of this audit of ours is that Arso is already working differently today. And the Directorate's already doing something different. The measures we've imposed on them will be carried out. But I am also pleased that today's debate will be much easier for me to meet with you and the mayors from now on because I have your support. Many times these two organs, the Arsa and the Directorate, are insinuated by criticism that they are too eloquent to be bureaucrats, that they are not living. Due to such, even here, pressures — these are some kind of pressure — then we may also experience mistakes that you have been alerting us to today, which we have also encountered through this audit, that procedures are then misdirected to avoid all relevant legislation being taken into account. This is important, so I am pleased to have listened to you today and to have your greater understanding from now on when you complain about Ars and the Directorate that there is nowhere to be built because it is a flood zone. This happens to me a lot when I walk in the field. A few months ago, I went to see where and how flood control measures would be carried out to protect a house that should never have been there. I don't know how it was in the past that they got a building permit in the flood zone, but now we're going to spend millions to keep those houses safe. Once again, I'm satisfied. Even now, as we have in the public debates of the Water Protection Regulation, when we say in these regulations that, in order to protect the water source, certain activities will no longer be allowed. Again, mayors, various agricultural and other organisations again criticise the ILO, criticise the Directorate that it imposes too strict criteria or restrictions. But this is important; when we talk about drinking water, once we adopt such regulations, it is necessary to understand that some activities are simply carried out in a way that is possible in the past, they will no longer be able to work and that no more works will be carried out. Our audit did not establish the legality of the administrative acts issued, but on the basis of this audit, as I have already said, I gave instructions on how these procedures will now be managed differently. For some time now, this audit has also made it public when you are in the lead. There is no more calling, but it is said: “Let’s put this on top. No, no, no. It is clear who is next, when it will be next, that only those we give by decision from the Ministry or from the government can be given priority. These are cohesion projects at the moment because we are aware of the importance of drawing on European funds. However, the audit also concluded that, on the basis of the results of this audit, the auditor does not ensure that the procedures in the work relating to the C0 linkage channel have been carried out in accordance with the declaration of the Ministry. It was found that these errors were most likely to have been made. The next measure currently being implemented is a review of the legality of the permits issued, including construction permits. The administrative unit has also been called upon to keep us informed from now on about all that it is doing and that the building permits that have not yet been issued are coming to the Ministry, which means that they are integrated. This means that if it is integrated, the environmental impact assessment will be carried out precisely because not all building permits are yet available. And after the current legislation, environmental impact assessments will be carried out. When we talk about extraordinary resources, because of the mistakes that have been made in this project in our ministry's proceedings and probably elsewhere, I do not want to, and I am extremely careful that because we want to correct these mistakes, we have made new mistakes. Therefore, in order to implement measures that cannot be justified on legal grounds, and in order for this to result in any additional action being dropped, there are other additional actions. Everything we do, we want to be very sure, and that it will also legally stand because we do not want to make mistakes again. I hope you support this, that you are aware of the importance of this. If we want to drive this project properly from now on, then we must not repeat past mistakes. This is also a reason for such caution, and therefore we are also working on the legal aspects of the legality of the current decisions. The review of technical performance is also important, or we did not succeed in this procurement because no one was suitable, but we will repeat it. However, it is important to see if what has been proposed is that the environmental impact assessment has not been made if this technical implementation is even correct or not. But it's gonna run. The environmental impact assessment will be carried out and this is what is most important. It is also important to realize that this tube, until it is made, is not hazardous to water until all building permits are made. Until then, there are still a number of procedures that we will carry out; so at the moment, I am speaking in the sense of exceptional remedies, our ministry is limited to how many of these extraordinary remedies we can use in the light of those legally authorised building permits. But it is true that those who have not yet, we now have a review and our second stage is reviewing this and will also take these measures on the basis of what the ministry can do. The proposals or recommendations you make, we implement, we will implement them, and, of course, we will also, I believe, report back to you that we will talk about this here again. We will be careful, however, that in the things we do, the procedures we are taking now will not make mistakes so that they will not fall to us at any time; but, as I have already said, this channel, until it is connected, is not dangerous to the groundwater. And it will not be done without an environmental impact assessment, because it will come to us integratively and this process will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. Ange's proposer's representative camp if you'd like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u72	Thank you, Chairman. I thank the Minister for a more detailed explanation at the end. He says they went to the audit and that they will go to the review of the procedure, that certain activities have been identified and that he promises to do otherwise today. With this, the minister today acknowledged that Arso had not previously done as was customary legislation; he indirectly acknowledged, even at the level of the minister, that the procedures were not guided as they were led. But I want to focus here on something else, because here is a more important fundamental question, whether the sewer goes through the aquifer or not. And I think we've had a very broad consensus here today that it's not going; it's a dot. The constitutional category is drinking water, and that says the canal doesn't go over the aquifer. I must say that I very much agree with my colleague Gregor Peric of the SMC and, above all, his two conclusions. The first is that the potential costs of lost funds from European funds are negligible compared to the threat of a catastrophic dimension in the event of a leak or an outflow of sewage into the aquifer; they are not comparable. I assure you that the Commission for the supervision of public finances will not deal with these matters if this happens and if any costs come from this address. And I may also agree that the conclusions are not bold enough as to what we expect here today from the Ministry or what position we represent in the National Assembly. But they're enough; they're enough for the Ministry. For the Ministry with the spine, it's enough to take all the necessary activities. I hope that it will not remain or remain under the impression of European resource drawing statistics. I hope that, for the sake of ensuring the percentage, it will not look or stare at one eye and lead the project forward as if nothing had happened. And if something doesn't work out, maybe we'll put some more glue on it and put some more glue on it and make it watery. No, the sewers just don't fit in the water protection area. And the sooner we're alone in this, in the National Assembly, the easier we'll be able to solve this problem. And it will also be easier to find solutions on the Ministry's side, because it will be clear what needs to be done. Like I said, this four-and-a-half-mile pipeline isn't headed for anything. It is intended only to slightly complement the capacity of the cleaning plant in Ljubljana and to make this project more cost-effective, it gets the same resources as if it were looking for another option. I thank the Members very much for the debate, and I also thank the former mayors very much, I think they have presented the weight of this problem very plastically. I also thank the expert opinion of my colleague Bandellli, who I trust in this area, because he is at home from this profession. And he just confirmed what I am saying is that this project with the channels is even more inadequate than without this system and that it is at all about complementing this project without the preparation of one precise project, which says very much about the contractor. The Ministry of Environment and Space, in particular, I place his words on the Minister's soul, the words of the reply to question 24. Seven. 2019. Once again, insist. You have to be very uncompromising here. As you said, I quote: "The chosen route poses a potential risk to the water source, as it runs directly across a narrow water protection area with a strict security regime of 2A and also touches the narrowest water protection area of 1." Those are your words. I respect them, respect them, hold on to them, stop this project on this part and allow the water at this best source to be preserved for our craftsmen, without any threat. Thank you all again for the debate and I hope you will confirm the conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired and the amendments to the proposal have not been tabled, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss them on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing yes. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for a recommendation from Dr Ange Logar and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will be given the word as the last, followed by a representative of the Government and then a representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. You know, I signed up for the word, mainly because I won't explain myself to you. The fact is, my debate was political, it went in a certain direction, particularly in the protection of the Office. I have no problem, and I will support this, as was initially said by the Group of Members. I'd rather be a more rigorous proposal, talking about a channel. My debate focused exclusively on the process of managing and issuing a building permit. I'm sure there's almost nothing wrong there. My debate was that those who were parties to a procedure or by-products should then complain if anything was wrong. The fact is that this decision is legal and legal. That's a fact. On this occasion, I would also like to appeal to the Minister that in these proceedings, when you find out, I really ask you, Minister, that your expert group find out whether it was really consistent with the legislation in the management and issuance of the building permit for this section and any sections by the Ljubljana Administrative Unit; that you also identify and get to know the National Assembly. And I really want to know if it happens that this part was consistent with all the legislation in force when an official has to act on the principle of legality, and what we will then say. Once again, the implementation of the channel itself with my debate had nothing to do with it and I strongly support these things. Above all, which were those operators, entities that may have contributed to the issue of consent and any of these circumstances. The clerk can't be guilty of this, let alone nail him, so I don't say I don't know what. He must act according to the rules, even if they are unusual to him. I would like to stress that I would like even stricter suggestions for this matter to come to a bottom once in a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word. He's quitting. I conclude the general debate. No amendments have been tabled to the updated proposal for a recommendation, so the vote on the proposal for a recommendation will be held in 15 minutes in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 28th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 7.30 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 19.13 and resumed at 7.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u76	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on the protection of drinking water in the area of the Ljubljana aquifer. As the amendments to the updated proposal for a recommendation have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I cut the vote. I didn't get you. You want to explain your voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u77	No, procedurally, if you can. I'm just asking you to read it first so we can know how they're going.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Izredna-28.ana.u78	We are voting on the Proposal for a Recommendation on the protection of drinking water in the area of the Ljubljana aquifer. You received a recommendation on the bench, it was published in full. Please, a little peace. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
