ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Joseph Horvat, Franz Trček, Matjaž Germany, Željko Cigler by 3 p.m. and Jože Tanko by 16 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of the Act on the Supplementation of the Gasilence Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Milos Biszak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u2	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 5 January 2018, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia committed, in paragraph 3, to the Ministry of Defence to submit a proposal for an amendment law to the Firearms Act in early January 2018, which will address the issue of a permanent allowance, so that the position of professional firefighters is comparable to other uniformed professions. The proposal for a law had already been tabled by the Government in its previous constitution in the proceedings of the National Assembly in March 2018, but it had not been examined by the end of the term of office of the State Assembly in its previous reference, so the current Government is re-investing the bill in the National Assembly. In doing so, professional firefighters will be entitled to the calculation of the differences in the payment of the supplement from 1 January 2018 onwards. With the proposed amendment to the Firearms Act, the continuity allowance shall be governed in a manner comparable to other uniformed professions and at the same time fulfil the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the strike agreement. The draft law provides that professional firefighters who carry out operational firefighting tasks in accordance with the job system shall, for each initial year, work on such duties for more than five years on a permanent allowance. At the same time, it provides that a public servant who is transferred to a professional firefighting unit shall also be considered as a permanent allowance in the body from which he is transferred if, under the rules and conditions applicable to the body from which he is transferred, he is also entitled there to this permanent allowance. With the proposed additions to the Firearms Act, the position of professional firefighters in relation to the permanent allowance will become comparable to other uniformed professions such as police officers, members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and authorised officials under the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act. In this way, there is also an appropriate difference between professional firefighters and other workers in the field of protection and rescue, who so far had a permanent allowance regulated uniformly in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. The fact is that professional firefighters directly carry out the operational tasks of saving people and property and are in this sense much more comparable to other uniformed professions. The adoption of the law will have financial implications for the local communities in which public institutions in the field of professional firefighting are organised. On the basis of the data obtained from all fourteen fire and rescue agencies on the number of operative firefighters, the financial implications are estimated at EUR 145 000 per annum. Finally, let me inform you that, as we have already announced on a number of occasions in the public hearing, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Firearms Act, which has already been proposed by the Firearms Association of Slovenia and other important stakeholders in the field of firefighting, is also more extensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Sam Bevk to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At its 3rd regular session, on 13 March 2019, the Defence Committee considered a proposal for a law supplementing the Firearms Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 23rd regular meeting, on 18 January 2019, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The deadline for the submission of amendments expired on Thursday, 7 March 2019 and no amendments were tabled within the deadline. Representative of the proposer, Mag. In a supplementary explanation, Miloš Bizjak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, explained that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the time of the signing of the strike agreement on 5 January 2018 at the third point, had committed that the Ministry of Defence would, in early January 2018, submit a proposal to supplement the Firearms Act, which would address the issue of a permanent allowance, so that the position of professional firefighters would be comparable to other uniformed professions. With the proposed addition to the Firearms Act, the continuity allowance is regulated in a manner comparable to other uniformed professions and at the same time fulfils the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the strike agreement. Proposal for a law according to the words of the Magi. Biszaka provides that professional firefighters who, in accordance with the job system, perform operational tasks of firefighting shall, for each initial year, be subject to such duties for more than 5 years of a permanent allowance. With the proposed additions to the Firearms Act, the position of professional firefighters in relation to the permanent allowance will become comparable to other uniformed professions such as police officers, members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and authorised officials under the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act. The adoption of the law will have financial implications for the local communities in which the public service establishments in the field of professional firefighting are organised, amounting to € 144 000 490 per year. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service highlighted and argued warnings of a constitutional nature with regard to all three articles of the bill. Article 1 concerns the question of compliance with Article 14 of the Constitution, which lays down the principle of equality. This principle means that the same situations must be treated in the same way and, for different situations, the real and, in nature, the justified reasons for the distinction. With regard to Article 2, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that the law has been in force for as long as 15 months, which is large. The Constitution does not prohibit retroactive application, but it is necessary to specify the conditions that the law must fulfil, in particular, for public benefit. With regard to Article 3 of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is recalled that the applicant must provide specific reasons for shortening the expiry date. These clarifications were given and the applicant indicated why the law was being enforced in a hurry. Secretary of the Trade Fire Union of Slovenia David Švarc, Commander of the Fire Federation of Slovenia Franci Petek and Vice-President of the Community of Slovene municipalities Marjan Kardinar supported the bill. In the debate, the majority of the members of the committee supported the bill. No amendments were tabled to the bill. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Defence Committee of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law on the amendment of the Firearms Act, a reduced procedure, be adopted in the proposed text. The Defence Committee also adopted the following decision by 14 votes in favour and no votes against: The Defence Committee of the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibility of refunding funds to municipalities that are founders of professional fire brigades for the implementation of the Act supplementing the Firearms Act for 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the law because we support all the solutions that are in favour of the firefighters and, above all, those that are aligned with them. Unfortunately, however, the Government did not take advantage of the opportunity when it now opens this Act for professional firefighters and did not follow the decisions of the Defence Committee of the previous mandate, which were adopted unanimously at that time with the exception of SMC, in order to ensure that the Government listens to all the demands of professional firefighters and also amends the legislation accordingly in order to put these requirements into practice. It was also heard by the Association of Slovene municipalities and some other individuals that the financial resources for this are being transferred back to the municipalities, so I am pleased that we have taken at least a decision on the Defence Committee, which somehow requires the Government to find these funds and, of course, also give them to the municipalities. The second most worrying is the attitude of this government towards voluntary firefighters. Given that the President of the Government himself is a voluntary firefighter, he probably has less time now, but would be counting just because the Government will prepare the Ministry of Defence, despite not being led by the LMŠ, to prepare some measures, but after all the years of speaking, to regulate the status of a voluntary firefighter. He said something about it, too, mag. Miloš Bizjak on the committee, but from all that has been said, it has somehow been announced, which has already been published on the government's websites, what is being prepared, changes to the law concerning voluntary firefighters, it seems that it will be far from finally regulating the status of voluntary firefighting. You also did not support the amendment proposed in the SDS for EUR 3 million in order to provide more for firefighting equipment for voluntary firefighting companies. There are many requests and financial applications, unfortunately not enough for everyone. We agree that, in the European Union and elsewhere, a number of countries can envy how high-level we have organised firefighting, but we must not sleep on laurels. It is true that firefighters generally do their work voluntarily and that financial resources are collected from door to door — either with calendars, or with actions, or with fun, iron and so on, but the country should have more obedience here. There should also be a final discussion of Article 6 of the Fire Action Act, in short, of all the tasks that municipalities must provide. And now that this law is being reopened, for the second time in this mandate, it would also be worth considering because we know that the local communities have different interpretations of this article as to who is responsible for what. Thus, some invest only in equipment, not in walls, which is somehow also a line followed by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. However, I am pleased to hear that negotiations are under way to draw financial resources from the European Union funds for the so-called walls or for the construction and reconstruction of firehouses. Volunteering is that foundation of firefighting, we must not destroy it, but volunteering is somehow based on finance, just like any other thing. The money invested in protection and rescue is not a waste of money, so I hope that this year there will also be a realisation of the work on firefighting that will significantly help to buy helicopters for helicopter emergency medical care, as was also presented at the beginning of the year or during the talks on the rebalancing. In view of the fact that we have already tabled proposals in this mandate in the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend the Firearms Act concerning voluntary firefighters, we will wait to see what will be the law passed by the Government. We hope, however, that Prime Minister Marjan Sarec will finally fulfil what he has promised before the elections, namely to exempt uniformed professions from the public sector wage system. It's the only way to make the army, the police, the firemen effective. As we say, we will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! In the Marjana Sharca page, the addition of the Firearms Act is understood as the unification of the right to pay the permanent allowance with all the uniformed professions, as well as the fulfilment of the coalition commitment relating to the fair remuneration of public servants. Notwithstanding the fact that legislation in a number of countries does not know the form of a state of permanent allowance as laid down in Slovenian legislation, they are aware of different forms of allowances received by professional firefighters in addition to regular income, thereby recognising them as special status. In the event of natural and other disasters, professional firefighters expose their lives to various dangers. This fact separates them from professional firefighters who do not perform these tasks and are not in constant readiness. The Firearms Act specifies exactly which provisions apply to professional firefighters and which are applicable to professional firefighters. According to the assurance of the Government and the competent ministry, the funds are provided in the 2019 budget balance and it is also necessary to take into account the fact that, compared to the 2018 budget, there are also EUR 900 000 for averages in the budget balance. Firefighters face difficult tasks in carrying out their work, which in addition to psychophysical skills require special technical knowledge, including work with construction machinery, the use of different technical tools and also different knowledge in the field of physics and general engineering. Many professional firefighters, in addition to their regular work, carry out activities in other areas, rescue in the mountains, here are divers, lobsters, rescue dog guides, which further contribute to the orderliness and safety of the whole society. In view of the above and also taking into account the fact that being a firefighter is not only a job, but a commitment to help others and the risk of their own lives on many occasions also faces personal fear, we will unanimously support the addition of the Firearms Act in the website Marjan Šarca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The proposal for a law supplementing the Firearms Act is one of the most important items of the March agenda for the Social Democrats. We are deciding on a proposal for a government law that finally implements the strike agreement concluded with the Slovenian Trade Fire Union in January last year. The law provides a basis for improving the situation of professional firefighters and, above all, for the social role and importance of firefighting to be recognised in practice and reflected in equal treatment with comparable professions. So far, professional firefighters have been proven unfairly treated worse than representatives of other uniformed professions, such as police officers or members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army, since they were entitled to payment of the permanent allowance only after ten years. By supplementing the Firearms Act, they will be paid after five years from the cut-off date on 1 January 2018. While the Social Democrats will be happy to support the proposal of the law as the only just solution, we regret that since the conclusion of the strike agreement and the adoption of the law, it has been no more than a year, especially since the draft law was prepared by the then Minister of Defence, Andrej Katič, and the Government has confirmed it and forwarded it to the National Assembly on 2 March 2018. At this point, we do not want to find the culprits for the fact that an agreement with professional firefighters is not yet in effect, but it is fair to say that the professional firefighters did not receive the payment of the permanent allowance because the amendment of the Firearms Act tabled by the SDS at the end of the previous and at the beginning of the current mandate blocked the treatment of the government law. It is crucial for the Group of Social Democrats, however, that despite the delays in the implementation of the strike agreement, professional firefighters will receive the calculation of the differences in payback, so that there is nothing lost in this regard. We are also pleased that the Ministry of Defence will listen to the warnings of municipalities that the calculation of the average for 2018 does not yet take into account the financial burden that the new arrangement entails in relation to the payment of the permanent allowance for individual municipalities. In this regard, we have the decision of the Defence Committee and the already political commitment of the Ministry that funds will be reimbursed to the municipalities concerned for the past year. Respected and respected, even in 2019 firefighters remain the most trusted professional group in Slovenia, so the Social Democrats welcome the Government's December announcement that it is preparing the starting points and measures for a more radical change in legislation and improving the situation of firefighters, both professional and voluntary firefighters. In this way, the bill that we are considering today is an expert on major positive changes in the field of firefighting in Slovenia, so we will be united in our support of the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u12	I'm glad we got to this point. Unfortunately, some still do not distinguish between volunteer firefighters and professional firefighters, but fine, let's move on. In the SMC Group, we support the proposal of the Fireextinguishment Act as it will lead to the fulfilment of the strike commitment of the third point of the strike agreement signed between the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar and the Trade Fire Union of Slovenia. This provision was made for the Ministry of Defence to submit a proposal to supplement the Firearms Act in early 2018, which will address the issue of a permanent allowance in such a way that the position of professional firefighters is comparable to that of other authorised officials. Dr. Cerar's government has also kept its promise. The bill, as we have today at the table, was put into the proceedings in the National Assembly at the beginning of 2018, but the SDS Group then tabled its proposal for a law supplementing the Firearms Act on the same day, just hours before the government proposal. It has, of course, deliberately blocked the adoption of government law. Thus, unfortunately, no consideration of the then government proposal has been reached since the mandate of the previous term of office of the National Assembly has been concluded and the current government has re- tabled the same proposal for a law in January this year. With the proposed addition, professional firefighters who carry out the operational tasks of firefighting in accordance with the systematisation of jobs would be assigned for each initial year to such duties for more than five years to a state of permanentity allowance laid down by the law governing the public sector wage system. In doing so, professional firefighters would be entitled to the calculation of the resulting differences in the payment of the allowance from 1 January 2018 onwards. This complement would therefore achieve the objective of equating comparable professional groups in respect of the right to payment of the permanent allowance, since, under the current legal provisions, comparable uniformed professions, such as police officers, customs officers, members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and authorised officials in the field of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, are entitled to payment of the permanent allowance after five years of carrying out operational tasks. Professional firefighters are only eligible for payment after 10 years after the current regime. At the same time, by supplementing the law, it is stipulated that a public servant who is transferred to a professional fire department shall also be considered to establish a permanent allowance in the body from which he is transferred, provided that he has been, under the rules and conditions applicable to the body from which he is transferred, entitled to a permanent allowance, which of course we support. At the same time, we understand the concern of the representatives of the municipalities who point to the issue of financing, as this will burden the budgets of the municipalities. In particular, in figures, the financial burdens at annual level are estimated at around €144,000 for all 14 fire-fighting institutions. The funds for 2019 are provided and additional funds should be provided for 2018, so at the SMC Group meeting of the Defence Committee, we have supported a decision by which the Government proposes to explore the possibility of reimbursement of funds to municipalities of the founders of professional firefighting units to implement this obligation. To conclude, I would like to point out once again that, and in the SMC Group, we will continue to strive to improve the situation in the field of firefighting as an important humanitarian activity of public interest, including the improvement of the status and rights of both professional and voluntary firefighters. This complement will certainly help, so of course we will support it in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Following long and painful negotiations by professional firefighters with the Government and following a protest against the government building, the Defence Committee adopted two decisions in autumn 2017 on a proposal by the Left. The first decision supported the demands of the Slovenian Trade Firefighters' Union for the elimination of salary system abnormalities and made it clear to the workers in this conflict and against the Government, which is against the employer in this case. The second decision proposed to the union the continuation of negotiations and to the Government to fully adopt the proposal they had drawn up in the union. The pressure of the Trade Firefighters Union and the pressure of the National Assembly have led to the government signing of the strike agreement. In paragraph 3, the Government undertook to submit for the first time, in early January 2018, a proposal to supplement the Firearms Act, which will address the issue of a permanent supplement comparable to other uniformed professions, to the Ministry of Defence. In doing so, firefighters will be entitled to the difference in payment of the supplement from 1 January 2018 onwards. We are adopting the law today, more than 15 months after the signing of the strike agreement. It is true that the law has already been tabled in the previous term, but it is not true that it has not been dealt with due to the early termination of the mandate of the previous Assembly. The previous term of office provided emergency and emergency meetings for the adoption of a whole range of laws, including a number of harmful laws – but it did not have a permanent allowance for professional firefighters. Even if the current government under the leadership of Marjan Šarc is not much better, the fact is that, despite the fact that the law was prepared a year ago, it was not until six months after the new government came into existence. After we have finally seen the consideration of this law, we have been able to read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This opinion states that the right law is not being amended at all and that the provisions on retroactivity could be paid back for its lack of justification in the Constitutional Court. Under the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence has allowed the National Assembly to take a victory from the law. And if at least a fraction of the attention given to kneeling in front of imperialist administrators and the greeting of the blue busolan coat were to be paid off, this would certainly not happen. Government priorities are clear and the salaries of firefighters, soldiers and workers in the protection and rescue system are very low on this list of government priorities. And that is why it takes protests and months and years of grueling negotiations to fight something that should be self-evident. Nevertheless, we are now faced with a vote on whether to allow professional firefighters to receive a permanent allowance after five years of employment, to perform the tasks of a professional composition, as is the case with other comparable professions, or whether firefighters should continue to receive an allowance after ten years. In Levica, of course, we will support the law; not because it would be appropriate, well written or anything else, but only to provide professional firefighters with higher wages. We sincerely hope that for the last 15 months of government delay, the law and the permanent allowances, in particular the allowances to be paid back, will not fall into any higher instances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Anyone you ask is the answer to palms — firefighters, either voluntary or professional — who are always the first to offer assistance in all kinds of natural and other accidents. They often risk their lives to save the lives of others. And if you ask which of the uniformed professions, policemen, members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army, firefighters, should be best rewarded for the work done, the answer is the same. In Novi Slovenija we have already pointed out in the mandates of Alenka Bratušek and Mir Cerar that unfair and unacceptable moves have been put on the edge by firemen and firefighters. In 2013, in the process of adopting the Real Estate Tax Act, we proposed to exempt all protection and rescue facilities, fire houses, from compulsory taxation. In 2016 we proposed a new Law on tax clearance of accounts whereby voluntary firefighting companies, which are humanitarian societies and are mostly financed by voluntary contributions and donations from legal and natural persons, will be exempted as debtors under this law. In December 2017, when the new Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme was adopted, we also pointed out the urgently needed correction of the whole wage system in the public sector, in terms of the comparability of individual titles, professions and professional groups, taking into account their complexity, responsibility and labour burdens. We're confident they should be removed from the single pay system. We drew attention to a group of professional firefighters when the government saw the biggest problem in paying 122 out of a total of 665 firefighters, representing 150 000 euros per year. Today's proposal to supplement the Firearms Act in terms of improving their situation cannot be contested, as any such small solution is welcome. It is worth noting that this fulfilment of the strike commitment under the Slovak agreement between the Government and the Slovenian Trade Fire Union 2018 brings a permanent allowance after five years of operating tasks only for professional firefighters in professional units. In addition, the Government imposes this obligation on the municipalities in which public establishments in the field of professional firefighting are organised. We have 14 such public institutions in Slovenia. It is therefore an additional burden on municipal budgets. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to resolve the sentences in the sentence agreement on the shoulders of the congregations. The higher average that municipalities will receive this year is thus eliminated by the new financial burdens to cover prices in kindergartens, in nursing homes and with the payment of a permanent allowance to professional firefighters, and in return, from 1 January 2018. In Novi Slovenija we hope that the government will be able to reimburse municipalities that are co-founders of professional fire brigades for at least the previous year. We will support the proposal to supplement the Fire Act in the hope that the Government will find solutions for other professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters. These firefighters are the first to arrive at the scene of an accident or natural disaster and help the unfortunate. They risk their lives and the state imposes on them the payment of training and personal responsibility in case of errors in emergency medical care.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We are all aware of the importance and respect of the firefighter's profession, so any change that contributes to improving their situation is welcome. At the same time, I am not ignoring voluntary firefighters, but today we are only talking about professional ones. The draft law is the result of a strike agreement and provides for the right to an extension of five years and not after ten years. It is right for professional firefighters to align themselves with other uniformed professions in respect of these rights, after all, they are completely comparable and it is not appropriate for firefighters to continue to be deprived. The Community of the Communities has pointed out that the financial resources for this measure are provided only for 2019 but not for 2018, and since the strike agreement was signed in January last year, firefighters are also entitled to a recalculation of the funds. They've been waiting a good year for a change in the dosage of the supplement, and we just can't let it get stuck with the money. After all, it is a relatively small amount, about 145 000 euros. I welcome the decision to unanimously adopt a decision on the Defence Committee proposing to the Government to consider the possibility of refinancing funds. This also applies to those municipalities that have set up professional fire brigades for the implementation of the proposed law. Professional firefighters are the bearing pillars of rescue and protection in the event of natural, transport, industrial and other accidents. They are unselfishly helping all citizens and citizens, often risking their own lives. They are always available and come immediately, no other similar force in the country will come to our aid in such a short time. At Alenka Bratušek, we agree that efforts should be made to improve the working conditions of both professional and voluntary firefighters. And no, it is not enough for us to show them respect for their self - sacrifice only in words. Let us also do so with action. In the SAB Group, we welcome the proposal for a law and we will unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we are already aware of in this hall, professional firefighters have warned us of the irregular situation and the wage anomalies some time ago. The government responded to the statement's forecast by proposing a strike agreement on wage regulation or personal income. The agreement was signed on two sides last January, the Government then adopted a proposal for an Act supplementing the Firearms Act last March and sent it to the National Assembly for consideration. The law is intended to regulate the right to obtain a permanent allowance. The proposal for a law was not adopted because it was preceded by the completion of the mandate of the previous reference to the National Assembly. This is why we are considering today the amendment of the Firearms Act, which stipulates that professional firefighters who perform operational tasks of firefighting belong to such a duty of more than 5 years for each beginning of the year. They were not eligible under the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents until 10 years after such an addition. At the same time, a public servant who is transferred to a professional fire department will also be counted for the establishment of a permanent allowance in the body from which he is transferred. The adoption of this novel will make the position of professional firefighters with regard to the permanent allowance comparable to other uniformed professions such as police officers, members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and authorised officials under the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act. Professional firefighters will also be entitled to the calculation of the differences in the payment of the allowance from 1 January 2018 onwards. In view of these provisions, it was suggested that the municipalities in which the public service establishments in the field of professional firefighting were organised would provide these funds in return. We have therefore listened to the comments and proposals of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and have also adopted a decision on the Defence Committee proposing to the Government to explore the possibility of refunding funds to municipalities that are founders of professional firefighting units for the implementation of this Act for 2018. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the proposal on the parental committee was adopted without a vote against. We have also consolidated ourselves on the proposed decision, and I believe that it will be so today that we will support this bill and thus at least slightly improve the position of those we all need and work for the benefit of all of us. Of course, by adopting this novel, we will not solve all the pressing issues yet, and the Ministry of Defence has already prepared a new amendment and a supplement to the Firearms Act, which is now in public debate. We have repeatedly said in our Group of Members that we will support proposals to improve the situation in firefighting, so we will be happy to support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u22	Mr. Vice President, everyone else present in the hall, a beautiful sunny day! The performance of professional firefighting tasks is completely comparable to that performed by other uniformed professions — police officers, soldiers, customs officers, guards. All of them do their work on the ground and under rather unpredictable and dangerous circumstances. Professional firefighters carry out operational tasks to rescue people, assets, exposed to fire, water, various hazardous substances, accident resolution and the like. It is therefore appropriate to compare the conditions for obtaining a permanent standstill allowance with other uniformed services. If other uniformed groups are entitled to a permanent readiness allowance after five years, they must also be provided by operational professional firefighters. The former government signed a strike agreement with the Trade Fire Union of Slovenia and failed to fulfil its commitments under the agreement. I think that politicians should have such a sense of justice that they can also fulfill their promises. Finally, despite this proposal, there remained an open issue of a management allowance to be resolved later. The financial implications of the law are estimated at EUR 144 000 500 per year. The municipalities have again warned that they do not have these funds in their budgets. More and more often, we hear that the government and the unions agree on something, and the financial burden shifts to another. According to farm logic, an increase in financial expenditure should be negotiated by those who will also cover higher financial expenditure. At the level of the Government – the municipalities are increasingly open fronts, so we expect the competent minister to open new negotiations on averages as soon as possible. In addition, we have decided on the Defence Committee that the Government will examine the possibility of reimbursement of funds to municipalities that are founders of professional fire brigades. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed to several constitutional disputes brought about by the proposal for a law. While the Government has been defined as a candidate for comments, the proposal has not changed the law as a result of these comments. By doing so, he assumes full responsibility for any constitutional review of the law. I hope it doesn't happen again that we're paying taxpayers for government errors. Recognizing how many public treasury funds have been dispossessed, it does not seem to be expenditure, but investment in firefighting is also pouring into the sea for the municipal budget. We will therefore support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Ferenc Horváth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! Un cordiale saluto and tutti! In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, we support the amendment of the law, since firefighters fire and rescue people from a burning building, help people with floods, rescue victims from car wrecks in a car accident, in short, firefighters always do their job with sacrifice. Therefore, they deserve, in addition to respect, a suitable position in the community. Unlike other uniformed professions which receive a permanent allowance after five years of their work, professional firefighters only receive this allowance after a decade of their work. We therefore welcome the Government's intention to fulfil the commitment under the January 2018 strike agreement and the proposed solution to equal the payment of the permanent allowance with other comparable professions. At the same time, we expect that the amendment of the Firearms Act, which has been in public debate until the end of April, will indeed increase the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting. Firefighters, both professional and voluntary, certainly deserve all the respect and proper evaluation of their work because of the foregoing. In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, we will support the amendment of the law, but at the same time we express the hope that this is only the first step in solving the problem related to this issue, as firefighters from the Government and the National Assembly expect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending the law on chamber and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u26	Colleagues and colleagues! This introduction begins with the call of a citizen: “Come to my home and you will see how I live. You will see my life situation and you will no longer be dealing with who proposes a solution to improve the lives of our disabled pensioners, whether it is the opposition or it is a coalition, whether it is the left or the right. You will not excuse yourself, you will be guided by one goal, and this is to finally do something together for us disabled pensioners." Of course, Your Honor, I want her words to work out and to prove that when it comes to some important solutions, that when we rescue those most vulnerable groups, we are actually going together and looking for a way to adopt the law, and not how to reject it. EUR 234, EUR 244, EUR 270, EUR 287, EUR 304, EUR 310 – respected, these are the amounts to be spent by Slovenian disabled pensioners. In these amounts there is also an answer why we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. For the disabled who are the most vulnerable group of pensioners, practically nothing has been done in recent years. In no case has their situation improved, nor has the minimum amount of these pensions been fixed. Comparative data tell us everything. The average pension in the Republic of Slovenia is EUR 635. This is, somehow, also the amount that is the indicative threshold of the risk of poverty for a single person. However, the average disability pension is significantly lower than that amount. This is an average of €495. This means that the proportion of those who receive a disability pension is lower than EUR 392 in the amount of the basic amount of the minimum personal income that is more known to people than financial social assistance is very high and is certainly unacceptable. It is said that a disabled pensioner gets less than someone who receives social assistance. According to the data we draw from the media, there are about 10,000 people who have a lower disability pension, such as cash social assistance. However, if you look closely at the government’s opinion, which has also provided some calculations, we can see that the situation is even worse and that these individuals are obviously even more. What exactly do we want to achieve in the Slovenian Democratic Party with the proposed amendment of the law? We want to improve the Pension and Disability Insurance Act by establishing a minimum amount of disability pension for the most vulnerable group within the disabled, which must be at least the amount of monetary social assistance or the amount of minimum personal income, which is 392,75 euros, if I am absolutely accurate. In doing so, please remember that many of these invalids were working until they lost their health. Who in this country wants to lose their health?Oh, my God! It's about people who, of course, want to work, who create, and they can't anymore. Many of them have indirectly lost their health at work, although they do not belong to the category of disabled pensioners who are recognised as having a occupational illness or injury at work. We propose a similar solution, respected, also for those who are so-called partial disabled and have a third category and are in the Employment Institute, and because of these obstacles they do not get a suitable job. I'll finish here. I'll tell you more. But I would like, once again, to focus today on how we can improve the law, how we can upgrade it, and above all to save this group of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Tiln Bozic, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u28	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unable to support the proposed law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members of the SDS, because it would undermine the relations established in the level of recognition of pension and disability insurance rights. While the Government agrees that higher social security and higher pension benefits must be ensured, it considers that it is not appropriate to change rights only to certain recipients, but it is necessary to find an appropriate solution for all users in a way that will also maintain the right relationship between them. Addressing partial measures would result in new inequalities and injustices. We point out that our pension scheme is primarily an insurance system, while at the same time it is based on the principle of solidarity, which is introduced to a higher extent in the disability pension than in the old-age pension. Thus, the invalidity pension has not been granted only from the retirement age achieved in relation to the contributions paid, but because of additional legal advantages, such as the corresponding age, it has been awarded at a higher rate than under the given circumstances an old pension. Disability pensioners may also be entitled to the guaranteed amount of the disability pension, and the law also specifically provides that the disability pension must not be lower than EUR 327. As mentioned above, disability insurance is an insurance-based system, which means that, at least to a certain extent, the amount of the individual’s contribution during the active period must be taken into account. If all persons with disabilities were to receive a disability pension in the amount of the basic amount of minimum income, the pension and disability benefits would be broken. Those who have been included in the system for a shorter period, for example 5 years, cannot, in our view, be in the same position as the insured who has been involved for 32 years. The SDS proposal establishes a balance sheet which would equalise, for example, the level of the remuneration of disabled persons who were insured for one year, as well as those who were 32 years old. We add that, regardless of the category of disability and age, beneficiaries of a disability pension may also benefit from a social security allowance. However, it is intended to ensure that the social security of citizens is improved. With regard to the raising of disability benefits, it should be pointed out that insurance undertakings with limited working capacity are still able to perform certain works with shorter working hours or restrictions. We note that the disability insurance system cannot replace income in the event of a loss of employment, but it is the responsibility of the State to provide a working disability with an adequate job and stimulate him to stay in employment. The government is currently preparing a proposal for legislative changes that will follow the improvement of the social situation of all beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits. A negotiating group was also set up on Friday in this regard in the Economic and Social Council. These will include, inter alia, raising the dose percentage for both men and women, which will also bring higher social security for future beneficiaries of disability, widow and family pensions, as well as for beneficiaries of disability benefits. We will also raise insurers who provide the lowest pensions to all individuals, i.e. invalidity pensions, minimum old-age pensions, widow and family pensions. This is a complex negotiating process in which the consent of the social partners is required, unfortunately, a partial approach does not allow this. This is also why the Government does not support the proposal. However, for further explanations, I will, of course, be available at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! For the third time, the SDS Group has tabled a new proposal for the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which seeks to partially address the social threat of pensioners who are disabled this time. With their proposal, they want to regulate the increase in the minimum amount of disability pension to the level of the minimum amount of social security benefits. The proposal that we have before us is attractive and sounds very good, but the proposaler in drafting the law forgot the fact that the pension system in Slovenia is based on the insurance principle. This means that the right to a pension is a pension right arising from the pension and disability insurance resulting from the previous part and based on contributions paid during the period of active life of the insured. Managing the social situation of vulnerable groups, such as those with disabilities, is a priority for all of us. We are all committed to a comprehensive solution to the identified problem, which needs to be addressed systematically and comprehensively, as otherwise it could lead to an increase in inequality and injustice. The issue of the amounts of benefits from disability insurance must be settled for all stakeholders in the same way as it will maintain a fair relationship between them. To support the regulation of the social situation of pensioners, we have already advocated the signing of a coalition treaty, which includes various areas of problems facing pensioners. In line with the government's commitments, it is already working intensively in the area of measures that will address the issue of pensionable disability insurance in an integrated manner. We will not support the proposed law on pension and disability insurance in the Marjan Sarca Group of Members, because the proposed law creates new inequalities and injustices.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before presenting the position of the Group of Social Democrats on the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, which has been tabled by Members and Members of the SDS in the parliamentary procedure, I would like to stress the following. Today, regardless of which party we come from, whether we are a coalition or an opposition, we must be aware that the content before this assembly has different consequences for people. These are topics that are becoming particularly convenient for individual political parties to consolidate their electoral base in a way that defends their ideological ambiguities. Unfortunately, most of these feed on the emotions of people. Even though they do not have such an impact on their daily lives, they are triggering some bile political debates that are more or less intended only for political parties or serve as some kind of customer identification code. However, there are content that should be absolutely protected from any party cheering, gloating and handmade solutions in the sense of Aladin's miracle lamp, when the spirit from it will save all our desires. These are issues that require the highest degree of political and social responsibility, especially when we are talking about systemic laws, whose change, although perhaps seemingly insignificant, affects the relations between all groups and stakeholders of this law, whose changes we must therefore plan first in view of all these stakeholders, not just one part of them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a number of laws contain such the highest political responsibility, but when we try to pronounce all these elements with one law, I am convinced that the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance is at the highest level of our responsible conduct. It must be acknowledged that when we talk about this law, we cannot simply discuss the matter of marriage as a result of some more or less successful political decisions. This law reflects much more, from the economic picture of Slovenia today, decades ago to the strength and weakness of the established insurance and solidarity pension and disability insurance and, of course, does not go beyond demographic trends, which have been extremely worrying for many years. I hope to say that pension legislation is that first test of economic as well as social, in the end and perhaps the most important political maturity of a society that has accumulated over the decades. Everything listed today, along with many wrong decisions, appears through the guilty and for our pensioners and pensioners extremely difficult situations. These can't be shipped overnight, even though I believe that's what we all want in this room. And so, unfortunately, the social security system of our citizens and citizens has become a permanent and urgent companion of the pension system, which we know in Slovenia, is based on the insurance principle and, as such, should provide our citizens and citizens with a decent pension, but unfortunately not for the vast majority of them. Moreover, in Slovenia there has been a tendency for several factors for a number of years, or for decades, to exacerbate pension legislation. But not so much because of lack of policy, but largely because of negative demographic and other economic trends as well. The first, i.e. demographic trends, remain negative, while the economic crisis in recent years has turned upwards. Unfortunately, however, respected colleagues and colleagues have become the first category political theme in Slovenian pension policy over the years, but unfortunately often for the wrong reasons. Unfortunately, in this issue, the highest degree of political responsibility remains too often only a tool of cheap political marketing and the appropriate content of such auctions without real consideration as to how to provide all pensioners and pensioners with current and future generations of pensions that have been severely wasted with a life of dignity. All, respectable and respected, whether or not we have participated in the preparation or adoption of pension legislation in the past, today, because of the great tribulations of our many pensioners, we must stop moving and put our political interests ahead of the interests of our pensioners. According to the proposaler's statement on the manoeuvring of the reform launch of the current and previous governments, it is interesting that it is precisely those who are the highest critics of the Government that the changes in the pension system are coming from the wrong end, partial, flawed. I am particularly concerned that, even without proper consideration of what the proposed changes will bring not only to those concerned, i.e. beneficiaries of invalidity pensions and beneficiaries of disability benefits, but also to other pensioners. This is the fastest way to start an already weak basic principle on which our pension system is based, I am talking about an insurance system that has built-in solidarity protection, if you can call it that. For decades, our pensioners and pensioners who have paid into the pension fund cannot be appeased by any excuse, why they have too many of them in the autumn of their lives, with whom they live from month to month. In good faith to correct all these injustices, however, we have already fallen into the trap of the rapid and partial rescue of the situation. Not only in the area of pensions, but also in the social and wage areas, without looking at the reactions of the whole system, which, in fact, has produced some effects on the first ball, and in the long term has created an even more unfair or even worse situation for many of our citizens and citizens. If I go back to today's proposal. It is impossible to deny that both disability pensions and disability benefits are too low. Yes, unfortunately too many beneficiaries with these benefits often cannot live with dignity. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that the remaining pensions are low, those received by our citizens and citizens at the age of full retirement, when they have paid 40 years and more into the pension register. The insurance system must strike some balance between the contributions paid and the amount of the pension. In today's circumstances, invalidity pensions are higher than old-age pensions and during the pension period, the so-called fictitious period for the assessment of disability benefits is also considered. We must not forget that our system also has social security guards in place so that beneficiaries of a disability pension can be entitled to a protective allowance and financial social assistance. In all cases, there is no justification for higher invalidity pensions, which are many times below the basic amount of minimum income. No, more importantly, it is true that all our pensioners deserve pensions that will guarantee a decent life. We will not get this through a single and rapid amendment of pension legislation. However, the proposal before us would be extremely difficult today, despite the fall of handball, if no measures were envisaged to amend the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance in a more comprehensive manner. The competent ministry has presented these measures to us, among them, as key Social Democrats, we recognize a rise in the retirement rate, which will lead to a better position for all groups of pensioners. Therefore, not only to beneficiaries of invalidity pensions, as foreseen in this proposal, but also to the old, widowed and family and disability benefits. If I focus precisely on these invalidity pensions, it is thus envisaged that the percentage of these if disability is caused by injury at work or by occupational disease, would increase to 63% of the pension base and, in case of injury or illness outside work, 65 years before completion to at least 41% of the pension base. A higher rate of disability benefits is also envisaged. We will actively participate in the coordination process, especially in the implementation of the whole package, whose guidelines are ultimately set out in our coalition commitment, so, although it is extremely difficult to challenge this and similar proposals to improve the status of one group of pensioners, we will choose the harder, but for the benefit of our people, I am sure, certainly a better path, and we will not support the law. We are aware that many of the signs will fall upon us, but we firmly believe that with the more comprehensive changes that are being prepared, our pension system will begin to improve for all, not just one group of pensioners, which is the only way to a stable, fair and sustainable system. However, for the sake of that true responsibility to our citizens and citizens, I ask that instead of populism and criticism, they focus their energy on more comprehensive constructive proposals that will save these and future generations bile debates, who and what kind of pension they deserve. All our pensioners deserve a decent pension, so, dear colleagues, once and for all, let us put aside such political bids and focus on taking comprehensive action rather than bile debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Janja Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u34	The SDS, in the context of today's amendment to the pension law, proposes the establishment of the lowest possible pension for all persons with disabilities in the amount of the basic amount of minimum income as set out in the Social Security Benefits Act, i.e. EUR 392,75. The reason for such a proposal is the recently adopted budget rebalancing which, according to the applicant, does not give enough to vulnerable social groups, which is, of course, far from the truth, because, on the other hand, this same proponent is at the same time severing with the constitutional assessment of the rebalancing because we are giving and spending too much. Understand who can. The pension and disability insurance system is based on an insurance principle and rights are therefore based on the amount of contributions paid during the active period. This is its basic starting point, which the proponents well know, but of course they ignore every time they are in opposition. With great certainty, this law would not be proposed if we were in a coalition or if we were running a department. Of course, our system is also based on the principles of solidarity, which are introduced even more in the case of invalidity pensions than in the case of retirement. The invalidity pension has not been granted only since the pension age reached, but there are additional insurers at the time of the assessment, which makes the pension higher than in the given circumstances the age pension. I am talking, of course, about the age added to every insured person's pension age, I am talking about the minimum dose percentage at the time of disability before the age of 65 and the acquisition of the right at the lower age of 15 years. And if an individual is injured at work or a professional illness, an individual has a guaranteed right of 40 years. All of this, however, is shattered by the proposal we have today on our benches. Let us take a closer look at what the adoption of today's proposal would actually bring to citizens and citizens. An individual who would have only one year of retirement, one year, would have been equal to one who had been included in the pension scheme for 32 years. So a citizen who would like to retire on an old-age basis would have to work 32 years for the amount of €392 and a disabled person could have only one year of insurance to obtain the right. They would approach the introduction of a pensioner in the pension system. Otherwise, they would have placed those disabled insured persons who had been included in the insurance for a longer period of time. While we would compare two different categories, disability pensions and disability benefits, which, like pensions, depend on prior insurance and contributions paid. Let us not forget that the benefits do not have the nature of the pension and do not replace the loss of income in full. Is that fair? Such a proposal will slow down our pension system, and this is not something that the responsible and constructive opposition is doing. It is much more responsible to seek and propose solutions for all beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits that will not break the relationship between them and, above all, will not cause new injustices and inequalities. And that's what we're gonna do. The Minister of Labour has already announced amendments to the pension law, which we believe will be followed to a greater extent by improving the social situation of all beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits. As a result, a rise in the percentage of the dose will bring higher social security for the recipients not only of the disabled but also of the widow's and family's pensions, as well as compensation for disability. This increase will also be followed by an increase in the minimum pension for 15 years of insurance period, a higher percentage of disability pension in the event that disability is caused by injury at work or occupational disease, as well as in the case of outside work or occupational illness and a higher rate of disability benefits. All with a view to strengthening the elements of solidarity and improving the situation of all and not only the most vulnerable citizens and citizens. Sometimes one step backwards means two steps forward, and in the SMC Group we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have yet another attempt to intervene the Slovenian Democratic Party into an unfair pension system. On the one hand, the proposal is good, since it raises the basic amount of the minimum income, i.e. the amount of the financial social assistance, for insured persons with the right to a disability pension. At the same time, the proposal is also bad because it does not do so for all recipients of the lowest pensions. Well, above all, the proposal is symptomatic, as you put it in the SDS when you are not in power. By the time you were in power, you accepted Zujf, who cut across the board and in which you wrote, among other things, that pensions were not aligned. Between 2010 and 2017, the State of Slovenia also abandoned or severely restricted the coordination of pensions due to your savings. As a result, the current pensions totalled over EUR 319 million. We have been warning in Levica for a long time that pensions in Slovenia are too low. As early as 2006, the lowest pension amounted to 69% of the average wage, which fell below 60% in 2017. Today, the average age pension is just over 57% of the average wage. In Levi, we have repeatedly warned that half of the old pensioners receive pensions at the minimum cost of living, EUR 636, and that the guaranteed pensions amount to poor, unfair, even cruel EUR 217. It is precisely this minimum pension that needs to be raised at the level of at least the short-term minimum cost of living, or EUR 442. As a result of this ugly image of the country's stepfather's attitude towards its pensioners, the rate of poverty among pensioners is four times higher than among employees, with the most affected women over the age of 65. Every fifth poor person in our house is a woman. If we turn to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and draw data from it for February 2019, a retirement pension of less than EUR 500 was received by more than 50,000 people, of which almost 32,000 were women. At the same time, the ratio between the net salary and the old pension continues to decline, and the prices of homes for the elderly are rising, and the types or waiting periods are also rising. According to recent Community data, Slovenia's social institutions are currently waiting for over 8 000 people to enter the nursing home, and the number of vacancies is exactly 1. This is one free spot for 8,000 applicants. At the same time, the country has not built one single home for older citizens for 14 years, nor has it produced an acceptable strategy to increase capacity. The only strategy you have drawn up, however, ladies and gentlemen, from the political establishment, was privatisation. So today we have 42 concessionaires in the area of home care, which almost no one can afford. If I am specific and look at the average amount of supply in the public house and the average amount of supply in the concession house, we see that the difference is 130 euros. So a private concession home is 130 euros on average more expensive than a public house. Looking at the difference between the cheapest public and the most expensive private concessions home, this difference is increasing to EUR 478. So, only the difference is almost as big as our lowest full-time pension. Now imagine how the pensioners can afford it. But that's the logic of you in a power you don't doubt. And this is also part of your broader capital subsidy strategy. You can see that the concessional barons are filling their pockets rather than actually burdening both the pensioners and their family members and at the end of the congregation. The profits of a handful of private people are in the first place for you. And because of this, of course, the pensioner is also regarded as everything else in this country as a cost and as a dairy cow. And since your pensioners are a cost to you, you'll be keeping your pension low. And since they're a cost, you're going to keep them on the labour market as long as you can to get them into the system. This has been paid into a system that is already rotting and that is not now ensuring a dignified age. But you insist, because it's a system, as you know it, because you can't see beyond the obvious limits it has. One wonders how it's possible that you just can't see what's obvious. How is it possible to force people to work longer and longer, while some young people do not have jobs, others have pens, disorderly jobs that cannot possibly lead to normal life? How is it possible that a worker pays twice as much for a pensioner as a capitalist, at the end of which he has a lower salary and then an even lower pension, while the capitalist has a second yacht and a fifth weekend? So how is it possible to extend or extend retirement age so easily? Because this is necessary, you say, and because the cashier has to be sustainable. Where is this cash sustainability when capital and profits need to be taxed? Where is this cash-flow logic of yours when it is necessary to tax real estate giants who serve gross sums only with their rents while holding the entire real estate market in check, and thus in a slave situation thousands of those who are simply forced to pay rent? Recently, the British financial institution Tomorrow Money, which manages real estate loans and mortgages, published a study where Ljubljana and Zagreb places between 10 cities in Europe, where ownership access to the first real estate is the lowest. Thus, we are at the European Summit after one of the main indicators of inequality. But these are the points at which your logic fails. You will continue to give exemptions to capital, you will continue to support real estate owners. When it comes to squeezing pensions and forcing pensioners to work hard to the death, but then you will reintroduce your so-called logical opinion again. And then public finances will be compromised, you'll start shouting and screaming. Different solutions from this vision of your development are, of course, more than enough, only things need to be looked at differently. Let us briefly see what we socialists say and what you say in the political establishment. On the one hand, you insist that jobs disappear due to technological advances, that more flexible working conditions and similar stupidities are needed, and on the other hand, you claim that people still have to work practically to death. That's completely contradictory, but you don't mind. Well, socialists say that it is true that jobs disappear due to technological advances, and that the population is old, but it does not hold that we have to work to the death. We simply say that we can understand this contradiction if we recognize that there is a fundamental conflict between work and capital, during the development of productive forces, which we are following in the technical and scientific progress of our society, and in the production relations that are persistently resisting to follow this progress. This is the logic of the capitalist way of production. And it is reflected in the fact that instead of having a 6- or 4-hour worker, as we suggest, after 3 or 4 jobs, it reflects that we have the most advanced technologies available to meet the needs of all, while some do not have money for food, and this also reflects in that, after all, that people have to work at a high age rather than enjoy the rest of life in peace. Thus, as long as you defend the country with a basic function, it will be only and only to stimulate and subsidise the capitalist economy, a country whose sole purpose will be to provide common conditions for capital accumulation. The issue of pensions is therefore not just a question that affects only one population, it is the elderly, it is a much broader issue of the health system in which it is necessary to stop privatisation and abolish concessions. It is also a question of an educational system where the opening of universities on the market is an absolute decline in the quality of education. After all, this is also a question of jobs that are being destroyed by pre-carnation, precarious working conditions and low wages. We therefore need radically different policies, such as those of the political class at this time. We need public health, which will be accessible and quality, we need public education, where the only differences will be those in dedication to the study, not in who can afford this study. And that is why we need stable jobs where people will not in constant uncertainty burn to poor wages. All of this is necessary together and also to think together when we talk about pensions. Above all, it is necessary to reverse the logic that you have given to virtually everyone in order, that is the logic of the measure of capital. In Levica, we will support the proposed law. In the next step, we will submit amendments to it to raise all the lowest pensions to a decent level. Not just to create one exception, no, no — all the lowest pensions in this country need to be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u38	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act would be expected from the Government, since, according to the regulatory plan, it is already very late to prepare it, despite the intense competition, which is more for the pensioners, this is another opposition bill. Welcome to the real world. The main proposed solution is to establish the lowest possible disability pension, the amount of the basic minimum income. It would determine for all invalidity pensions regardless of the category of disability and the reasons for disability. In New Slovenia, we believe that this is a necessary measure, as it is known that disabled pensioners receive too many low, miserable invalid pensions, despite the fact that some also have 30 years and more of pensionable age. In doing so, we point out that the pension disability insurance is based on an insurance principle, which basically means that the right to a pension is a right arising from the past part and is based on contributions paid during the period of the insured’s active life. This means that the proposal to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2 does not, in principle, follow this fundamental principle. On the other hand, the former government has arranged the lowest retirement pensions in the same way. We support the proposal in Novi Slovenija because it saves the social situation of a particularly vulnerable group of insured people, such as disabled workers or disabled pensioners. These have paid contributions to the pension fund and would like them in the future, but because of their disability they can no longer do so. It is therefore right, in the light of social justice, that the State also makes it possible for disabled pensioners to live a decent life at the revised level of the lowest invalid pension. This also follows the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, on the responsibility of the State to ensure an adequate standard of living for persons with disabilities. We expect that the proposal will also be supported by the government or coalition, as it stems from the coalition agreement. It is stated on page 9 that, I quote: “Disability and widow's pensions must be raised to a level to allow for at least minimum living standards.” End of quote. This is written on the 9th page of the Coalition Treaty. Members of New Slovenia have also prepared and tabled a number of solutions for the elimination of injustices for workers with disabilities and voluntary payers after 31. 12. 2012, and the current coalition is not listening to these injustices of these weakest groups of people. At the same time, in New Slovenia, we would like to reiterate the need to introduce a new model of pension insurance, which will provide a long-term sustainable and transparent system and be trusted by the younger generation. In Novi Slovenija we have already prepared a proposal for a three-pillar system and also presented it to the public. The former government and the current coalition are putting their heads to the sand, so the Members of New Slovenia will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good bye to all of you! Your Honor! I must say that we agree with the proposaler, with the opposition on the right and the opposition on the left, that disability pensions and pensions are generally too low. It is right to arrange this or to arrange it. Regardless of the fact that we welcome in the SAB all the solutions that would improve citizens and citizens, whether material or quality of life itself, we cannot support these changes today. We cannot and must not solve the problem in part. This is what we stress on my expositions and on behalf of the SAB several times. We must take account of all stakeholders in the system in a way that will not break the established relations between beneficiaries. The proposal before us essentially introduces a balance sheet and puts all those who have paid much higher contributions in an uneven position. I have to say to myself that before I went to politics, I retired and have a limited pension, even though my contributions have brought a lot more. And I'm for such solidarity. I have to tell you the truth. But in doing so, we must not go indefinitely and completely disrupt the mutual relationship that governs pension insurance. It's a mutual relationship. Others are solidarity relations, where we can draw money from the general budget and cover these gaps. The way we try to partially solve things through the system of pension and disability insurance is to destroy the whole system. We can't support that. Although the current system for individuals who have only been involved for a short period of time, I am talking about disabled persons, providing for a fuse, this is an added period which adds to every insured person the pension age he has lost due to his incapacity to work. So we've got some institutes in there. In addition, beneficiaries of a disability pension are entitled to a protective allowance. That's what we got. This is the real source of this coverage, which comes from social protection and is set up precisely to ensure the social security of citizens. Otherwise, the readings we hear a lot of times, you know, he gets it on this account, he works for a year, and his kids drive around with Mercedes. I think we need to look at that, too. In any case, however we look at it, systemic solutions are essential. We have seen, for example, what has brought about the rise in minimum wages and the rise in salaries in the public sector, which is basically positive, but has also brought about all the negative consequences, such as the rise in the cost of care in nursing homes, to which you Members of the SDS have constantly warned and warned about what has happened. In fact, we did it quickly and thoughtlessly. With each change, we also need to think about the negative consequences and not just the positive consequences that are politically welcome and which bring the points. I just don't think it's the right thing to do. There's one more thing I'd like to mention in this place. Today this same law, the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, will be discussed at the government meeting. The purpose of its amendment is to relieve the benefits from the employment relationship and to increase the available income for workers paid as a regress for annual leave. If we adopt the law before us as suitable for further consideration, we will therefore stop the process of adopting the novel, which must be in order for the higher annual regress to be paid in the month of May, adopted next month. If we accept this proposal today, almost 900,000 people will be deprived of the opportunity to receive a much higher regression this year. Of course, provided that employers follow the government's intentions. We therefore oppose the bill in the Group of Members. We'd rather wait for the government to regulate this problem. Although we will thus help the SDS to achieve one of their objectives today, we will not, again, show that this government is lagging behind in its actions, that this coalition does not fulfil its obligations under the coalition agreement, we will not support this law, because we believe that we will achieve much more and in the long term by adopting a bill that the Government has drafted and has already presented. The Government has ensured that this proposal for legislative changes is prepared and, through several measures, aims to improve the social situation of those entitled to disability benefits. These are supposed to be the light of the world that they saw in May. Members of the SAB will be the first to raise our voice if this does not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group The Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia will present Yuri Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Within half a year of the operation of the ministerial team and the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc, we are already facing the fourth opposition amendment proposal and the addition of the law on pension and disability insurance. Everything's fine and fine. Thus, the public, the media and the people see that some political parties are working. In the wake of another debate that will take place today at the temple of democracy, the message will go back in the direction that only one of you will stand for pensioners and pensioners, and the coalition will not work and will not do anything. As usual, Desus will be particularly exposed. Unfortunately, we will not actually hear anything new today, but we will not hear enough convincing arguments to allow the SDS Group's proposal to go through the sieve of today's first hearing. In short, our key point is that the purpose of the applicants is not only to care about improving the situation of pensioners, because it is not a sincere desire to do so in a just manner, in the spirit of integrated regulation of the problem of low pensions in general. The proposal, which was last considered only at the 16th extraordinary meeting in December last year, also proposed the solution that we have today on the table. This time, however, the proposal focused only on disability pensions and compensations. This is a proposal that allows disability pensions to be compensated at a lower limit, namely that they should not be below the amount of the basic amount of the minimum income or monetary social assistance. This is the amount of EUR 392,75. The same is proposed for beneficiaries of disability benefits who have the remaining working capacity and are unemployed. In Desus, we are aware that disability benefits are too low. Well, not just the last one. All pensions, as well as all other benefits in the title of pension protection, are essentially too low and it is not easy for many people to spend their old years. Especially not if you become dependent on relatives in the autumn of your life or if you are forced to spend these years even beyond our southern borders, which is what is happening today. As a coalition partner, we trusted our colleagues and together set priorities for improving the situation of pensioners. The Coalition Agreement includes, inter alia, measures to ensure adequate disability protection, which should provide at least minimum living standards. As we have heard today from the Government's representative and, as is known to the general public, since mid-March the Government has taken some concrete steps to improve the social situation of all pension and disability beneficiaries. As part of these measures, an increase in the dose percentage to 63 % is envisaged, resulting in an increase in all pension benefits. With regard to what is proposed today by the SDS, I would like to point out that this is a welcome proposal, but it is not appropriate to accept it so easily. Why do we feel that way in the Desus Group? Simply because the pension protection system operates according to the principles and principles that work together. We are talking about the insurance principle and the principles of reciprocity, the solidarity involved in our regulation. For this reason, we have a minimum pension limit of EUR 530, for example, which is also granted to those who have paid substantially less than others in the pension allowance. Disabled persons may also be entitled to this pension. Our pension system is also characterised by the so-called fictitious age for the occurrence of disability, which adds to every insured person the missing pension age. Solidarity has been introduced here to an even greater extent. Let me give you an example. For someone who has become disabled at the age of 30 and has reached the age of 5 years, an additional 22 years are added, giving the pension a total of 27 years. True, the pension will be lower than if a person actually worked for 40 years, and it is true that it is an indirect disability, which in the individual’s life certainly requires more than the financial resources needed for approximately normal life. But I'm sure it's not all in the address of the pension fund. We must not forget the possibility of exercising rights from public funds. Some of the rights set out in this title are guaranteed in our society, irrespective of the payment of contributions. The interconnection of the principle of insurance, reciprocity and solidarity between insured and pensioners, between generations and within generations, has been the basis of our regulation for many years. Any reckless intervention that disrupts the relationship, puts the pensioners in balance, no matter how long it takes to pay, causes inequalities and, most sadly, creates new injustices. In view of all the above, our Group concludes that we trust in the government team so that we can get the announced changes to the National Assembly as soon as possible. We will not support the proposal that we are making today in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'm glad the SDS party is correcting its 27th mistake. 11. In 2012, when this is precisely the case in reverse, the amendment reduced the minimum pension base from 35% to 26%. At the time, I think that besides the Slovenian People's Party was in power or not, well, in short, there was an amendment that went in the opposite direction. Now the SDS is correcting those mistakes, which is right. It's been a while, but I think it makes sense for this to be fixed. The state said, not the state, we're all state, but the government is the one in charge. At the regular meeting of the National Assembly, it was said: “Decent pensions are certainly the priority of this government, not just one party, the whole government.” Well, the question is, if this is really the priority of the entire government, I think that only one part of the coalition is for this matter to be rectified, namely, it was the leftist coalition party, as we have heard. I'm sure there's a need for a solution. Persons with disabilities are the group most affected, unable to help themselves and are largely unemployed or unemployed from the time they reached disability. It is true that the whole range of these persons with disabilities who have not paid into the pension fund is virtually no funds, and yet will receive certain increased funds now under this new law. It is not easy to debate this, because we also have to compare everything with having a huge number of people in social life who have also done absolutely nothing, many of them because they say: “Without the link to work, it is better for me to be in social life and the state has to give.” While a lot of people with disabilities want to work, they can't. And he that desireeth to work, and cannot, is deprived: but he that loitereth, and doeth not, is fine. The government has raised funds for these social recipients. Of all these social recipients, I am convinced that at least 70% of those who speculate, who receive social benefits and then make a total of €200,300 in black. And he says, "Why should I go to work, but why should I work when I can sit at home, get money from the state, and then earn something else in black." But it is also true that this pension system of ours needs to be repaired in the foundation. But here I agree with a lot of things that my colleague from the Left said. I don't know why the coalition doesn't listen in some parts of the Left, because most of the time the Left directs the direction of the current government and determines what they have to accept and what they don't. So I would expect you to listen to something in this area at some point. But maybe the Levis aren't enough to accept everything, because if the government accepted everything, then we wouldn't have anything else to say. In general, the situation in Slovenia is bad, very bad. Not just for the disabled, not just for the pensioners, but for those who are employed. It is bad because since 1992 there has been virtually no concern for people, it has been taken care of by certain frameworks in which those who have already had enough or have stolen, since certain segments have been so privileged that they can take from the country’s small, from the small, that we have filled in the former Yugoslavia all those who have worked. From that little girl, they took as much as they could, not as much as they needed, but as much as they could grab. Of course it all began to empty. It's all very empty today. The ones who stole it, they're out there. There's a lot of people out there, and there's a lot of money in the tax havens, and we're not gonna see it, because no one's interested in getting these things settled. This marriage, however, is a small drop in the direction of redressing injustices. Maybe it's not best written. Many things could be better written, better precise, more exact, and within the segment of these people also make some distinctions in order to make this different. However, there is one step forward, so we will support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Group will be presented by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u46	Your Honor! The disability area is a very complex issue that needs to be addressed with all due care, especially because it is a vulnerable group of people who are often unable to help themselves and receive a disability with which they cannot survive, so the state must urgently help them. From day to day I receive the records of these people who are very disappointed by the ignorance of responsible policies towards them. They need to listen and help with solutions that will provide them with decent living conditions. In particular, we must be aware that people with disabilities in particular are in a very difficult situation, as compensation is essential under the threshold of poverty, while in practice it is very difficult to get a job or it is virtually impossible. At a time when we have economic growth and when the government shares budgetary money across the board without good consideration, it is logical that people living deep below the poverty line expect an increase in their, almost not, charity to the level of at least the amount of social assistance. An increase in the minimum possible invalidity pension, as proposed by the amendment of the law, would mean a lower limit independent of other provisions of the PIZ-2, not affecting them either, or other laws under which the invalidity pension cannot be measured. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is a broad political consensus in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the need to improve the situation of socially disadvantaged groups, which must include persons with disabilities who receive a disability pension under the basic amount of minimum personal income. Given that the current government and the budget rebalancing coalition have raised public spending by EUR 460 million, i.e. for almost half a billion, while you have done nothing in terms of preventing corruption and stealing large amounts of money from the state treasury in most of the subsystems, I see no reason why the funds would not be provided for at least the most socially disadvantaged disabled persons. One more time. A proposal for a law proposes the establishment of the lowest possible pension for disabled persons in the amount of the basic amount of minimum income as set out in the Social Benefits Act. The proposal concerns all invalidity pensions, irrespective of the category of disability and the reasons for disability, which are defined as conditions for disability pension under the applicable law of STIZ-2. Given that the basic amount of the minimum personal income is the amount fixed as a minimum for the survival of one person in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we believe that the pension should also be set at a minimum of that amount, especially in cases where disability pensions are involved, since they are persons who cannot afford another source of income or who are partially unable to work are very difficult. In the case of persons with the remaining capacity to work, such a minimum pension shall be granted only if the person is registered with the Employment Service as a job seeker and does not receive an adequate employment without his or her guilt. It is precisely because those persons are unemployed or more difficult to employ that it is possible to determine the minimum pensions for disabled persons differently from other pensioners, since these are different situations of groups of pensioners which can also be treated differently for a legitimate reason of inability to work. The Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, under the powers provided for in Article 12 of the ZPIZ-2, must also obtain, on an official basis, data from the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment and harmonise the amount of the pension. Decisions on the new amount of the pension shall be issued by the beneficiaries of the official duty within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. For all the reasons or arguments mentioned above, we will also be pleased to support the draft law that we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We also expect the support of all coalition parties, who say very much that it is necessary to help the most vulnerable. Here, of course, I am thinking mainly of SD, Levico and Desus. Today, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to reassurance who speaks one part of another. Today, when I listened to the views of the parliamentary groups, I must say that I am very disappointed and sad. Apparently, it repeats from day to day what I've warned you about, and that's that this coalition mostly speaks one thing and does another. He likes to cheat, he likes to talk a lot, he spends a lot of money, and for those most at risk he doesn't take the time to listen well and he doesn't find a hearing for a few million in the state budget to save these most vulnerable groups. These are also working persons with disabilities for whom we have submitted a law in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, the representative of proposalant Anja Bah Žibert asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I have listened very closely to all the views and I thank all those political parties who have seen in this bill the benefit and the need to accept it. These are Levica, SNS, NSI and, of course, we are proposing, this is the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, I hope that such a reflection will then also be reflected in the vote itself, that we will actually see this number on a one-time basis. But let me go in line, because I think I owe some answers. In its opinion, where the law rejects, the government wrote that this is problematic because it resolves matters in part. It is true that the bill is designed for the category most threatened. I told you the numbers, 234, 244, 270. These are the amounts that invalid pensioners have to live with for a month. I hope you're aware of these numbers. If I believed in the well-intention of this government, I would somehow accept, yes, you did, you didn't change things for the other categories. I'm in favour of changing things and making things right for the other categories of disabled pensioners below the law. Only the government is troubled by these numbers that would have arisen if they had repaired this group of pensioners. For them, those numbers are already too many. So I just don't understand how you're going to do some other solutions, because already with these numbers, you've calculated that for 33 million, it's too much. Of course, it's too much to put $13 million into protocol. I believe it's too much. But it's important to drink in government. And every minister has to ride back to Brussels with the Falcons. Of course it's too much. But you know, these people are living. It's the other way around. If it were true that nothing is being resolved in this country in a partial manner, I would also believe in the good faith of the Government. Why did the lowest pension rise? What happened to the one who had a pension before that 510 euros? Was it a comprehensive solution or a partial solution for him? You're also talking about breaking some kind of disability pension system. You broke it yourself! You're the one who raised social support. I'm not saying you're wrong, because those people have to live too. But the funniest and most painful were the comparisons of those Members who spoke today about the fact that those who have one year of work and those who have 33 years of working age will now receive the same disability pension. However, those who have no working age receive almost 200 euros more than those who have worked. Is that a fair solution? What we have today is fair? Many of you have said that changes are being made to the law. Yeah, you're really making something. Otherwise, the President of the Government said that it was not a pension reform, and here I will also give an answer to my colleague SMC that a law like this today would not be proposed if we were in a coalition. Dear Janja Služ, I would not have done it because there would have been a pension reform on the table and would have been a comprehensive solution. I don't think it's wrong to set things right and fix them partially if there's no other solution at the moment. The government is proposing a future change in the dose percentage. This is one of the solutions for the future. What does that mean for those who retired yesterday? You're going to fix their dose rate? Will you consider these disabled pensioners a new dose percentage or just those who will retire after? In public, you replied that no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. For me, these are also unfair solutions. Many of you have said that we are proposing a populist solution to this bill. When I went into politics, they said, "Anja, you'll get hard skin." But there are times when every skin wears off. And today is one of those moments. Do you know why? Because you're giving us populist suggestions, and you obviously don't know what your client programs say. You don't even know what you've written in your client's programs. Here, for example, SD, which has vehemently rejected the law in the field of age and pensions, says: Slovenia without poverty, reducing poverty and social exclusion. What, though, are the disabled as one of the most socially excluded groups? Our goal is to raise and introduce higher pensions. Really? You don't miss out on disabled pensioners for a while. We want to lower the risk of poverty by at least a quarter among the elderly. And run, come on. Today, this proposal for a law that reduces poverty does not suit you. DeSUS is one party at all, but I really don't understand that it does not support such a proposal. In the coming period, we will take responsibility with our political strength and experience for the preparation of a thorough pension reform. You were in the previous government, now you are, and pension reforms are not yet. But when we propose a solution, you say it's partial, that's not right, that's not how things work. This is not an answer for these citizens to be prepared. This is how these citizens live today. And this is a category of people, respected, who often need additional health care and often have to pay for it. different medicines on the pay sheet, travel costs when they must be transported to certain health facilities and so on. And the answer, by the way, to what I find most vile is: They have the option of a protective supplement. That's mean. And I'll tell you why. Example of family: Father worker, had a severe heart attack, disabled pension, wife, about 9 years of working age, severe form of cancer, disabled. These two men worked hard before that. They built a house, they had a car, they had a normal life. The next moment, it all went down. It's not because you don't want to work. And they set up a house that's going to be worth more than 120,000 quickly after some calculations, or a car that's going to be worth a little more than 10,000 euros. Now you'll take them! Because if the house is worth more than €120,000, which they've collected, then they'll get away with it. And don't talk about solutions with a protective supplement. Let me tell you again, this is the category of people who have paid up, but the disease has made them impossible. It is also true that what the Government wrote is different with those who somehow experience illness or injury at work or at work. But you know, this goes by some categories, by some admissions. Many diseases today occur due to pressures and obligations and hard work in the workplace, but are not recognised as a disease in the workplace. So, you know, it's very weak and I wouldn't build on it. As far as the LMSH party is concerned. They don't say much about disabled pensioners in their program. Perhaps this category did not provide them with a need to mention it. However, you said it was necessary to arrange pensions so that at least they would be above the poverty risk threshold. But that's what you're saying for a full-time pension, so we can't count the invalidity pension here. Come in. It's a modern center party. I'm not even gonna lose words here, which is not actually written there. And they're obviously adapting their program to more coalition needs and staying in coalitions. They don't surprise me with this law. I'm not surprised by this law by Alenka Bratusek. Previously, it has been acknowledged that you have made a mistake as a coalition by raising wages in the public sector and, on the other hand, even making these people have to pay more for other services and will be more harmed than they would have to benefit. The only person who earned it in this case is, in fact, the state, because it will collect more taxes. But you wrote in your program: We will gradually increase pensions to a decent level with special attention to widows and invalids' pensions. Further: We will pay special attention to the correction of widow's and invalids' pensions. So that's exactly what we're proposing today. Obviously, the price for being in the coalition is very high, but I suggest you at least delete that from the program you have on the website. Because you're obviously writing and talking one thing, and then when there's something on the table, you're doing another. That the coalition will not adopt the law, the super-coalist Left will support it, but they're above you anyway, you're far below them, so I'm not surprised. But it's very interesting to see your reminder. Besides, I don't know why it was me who got a reminder from the coalition parties. But it's very interesting to watch. A reminder on behalf of what the coalition mentions is not signed. But it's on the head of the Marjan Sarca list. Good coalition. It's all on one client. You know what you wrote here – you started today with some situations, and you wrote in there that there would be a problem because there would be no balance because the balance would collapse. But this is where you first saw the problem. If accepted, there will be problems on the Government’s side in decompressing the regression. You said you didn't have any money. With such a budget as you have adopted, you do not have the government's calculations, and I will believe it, 33 million. 15 million, well, 14 and something else, I already gave you a heads-up if you eat and drink anything less. But if you make any more regular trips, there'll be plenty of money here soon. You said that the pension fund or system has no money and should be settled by the state, so I am answering as the amount of the budget. This is where you've been working on the four sides of this marriage to reject it. Four pages. Otherwise, Anja Bah Žibert, who is not a coalition MP, obviously doesn't count these things for you. It is interesting, though, that although you are revealing to us that you have been in positions, I do not know how you have tried to reject this law, but you admit by this document something that you have worked incredibly hard to find so that you can, for God's sake, reject it. It says here that you have even coalition coordination on this bill twice. And yet your skins are not so hard! But as we say, today you're going to do the coalition machine your own way. Perhaps, however, some Member will consider these solutions. Once again, we're talking about first reading of the law. We wanted to solve the problem of this lowest category in the context of people with disabilities who receive less than social assistance. These people were crying. Those with social assistance do not have half a year's work. And these people were crying, but they got sick. Second of all, when you say that other pensions are low, I agree. But you know, the difference is between the disabled and the rest of the pensioners. The remaining pensioners may still be able to work. There's a lot more work to be done. These people can't work. These people get what they are, and they have to live with it. Most often, they also need the help of their family members. Since I've received hundreds of emails or private messages, don't talk to me about going populist, because otherwise I'm going to arrange a visit to these people's homes to see how they live. Then we'll see who talks about populism. That's not populism. This is the solution for which we are elected to this National Assembly. We have been elected to this National Assembly to improve the situation in the country, of course, in an appropriate manner. In another reading, a respected government, if they were well-intentioned, I am absolutely in favour of correcting the remaining ladder of all disabled. Then what's the reason why the 33 million will grow? But I'm about to fix it. First of all, there was a desire to draw up such a proposal for a law. But what if we knew that there would be another problem — where to get it from? On the one hand, you say that you will solve things in an integrated way, and on the other hand, there is not enough money for this solution. Then find out who can. No, no, the coalition, you're not going to outsmart me today or today your argument with populism and partial resolution won't go through. You've taken too many partial solutions, you've taken too much nonsense. Above all, you have adopted such a budget that could solve this matter, but you prefer to spend money on other matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Before receiving the word of the representative of the Government, I inform you, honourable Members, that the list of applicants is slightly changing. This is how the order of the applications is currently reported: as the first Mrs Iva Dimic, followed by Mrs Eva Irgl, followed by Mrs Nina Maurovic. Mr. Secretary of State, your word. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Servant, you have a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much, President. Yeah, that's a very important piece of information you just said. I mean, even the first debater didn't get a word. I would therefore like to ask you to warn the proposer when he mentions some things and when he responds, he still responds to what we have said in the positions of the members of the groups, not to what I have said as Janja Sluga, because I have not yet had that word. She knows very well that I cannot now respond to the fact that these were positions. It is therefore extremely incorrect not to mention that it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it responds in this way to the views of the groups of Members, that it names individual Members and what they have said. And, yes, the fact is, if you were in the coalition, you wouldn't have tabled this proposal, because the last time you were in the coalition in 2012, you were lowering your pensions, that's a fact. And you read, on the one hand, that the budget is unconstitutional [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u51	Where is the procedural proposal here, Member?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u52	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u53	Procedural proposal, for which you now have the right, for replicas will later be time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u54	In the first sentence, my procedural proposal, the chairman, was that you too listen to these discussions and respond [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u55	I'm listening, I'm listening to you all the time, but you don't have the right replica right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u56	Please warn the proposer, as I have suggested in the procedural proposal, that she does not respond in this way and does not violate the Rules of Procedure. That was my procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have a response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll be very short. I responded to the views that were presented. And now I don't know, maybe you'll advise me on how to talk in the future, or maybe someone from SMC or I don't know. [[…]] If you name someone by name and surname, I think it's the most beautiful name. But if someone wants, I don't know, the smallest political party, the political party before it's erased, then that's what we can call ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u59	We have another procedural proposal. My proposal, honourable Members and honourable Members, is as follows: we have five hours of debate ahead of us, everyone can come to the floor. However, I propose that we do this in accordance with the rules of procedure. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u60	Presidents, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have three minutes for my procedural proposal. On my first proposal, you came to my word and you wouldn't let me go on. Now, I would very much like to know what article of the Rules of Procedure was now the response of the applicant to my procedural proposal. And I hope to have those three minutes next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for the question. The applicant and the Government may make themselves available to the debate at any time during the course of the discussion, and this time shall also be deducted. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I'd give the first response. I'd kind of start with some of the amounts mentioned, say 234, 244 and so on. I now assume that this is not a disability pension, but for compensations This must probably be clear on the start because the invalidity pension has a higher starting amount. In fact, substitutes are paid when someone has less capacity to work, so he is still able to work, but not to that extent or for that kind of work, but not for perhaps as long as the one who is fully able to work. In these cases we have one situation where someone without work is registered at the institution, this compensation is slightly higher, and in the case of getting a job, it is slightly lower, but it is intended to be said to a certain extent to improve his social situation. Therefore, these amounts are also relatively low. That's another word. In this case, one article is open. What the government has set itself as a goal, which also stems from the coalition treaty and then the coalition has somehow confirmed. It confirmed, of course, the starting points, not all the changes that will happen, but the starting points that we can talk about. These starting points were then presented on the Economic and Social Council. Here I would particularly point out that the social partners specifically ordered it at a time when we were talking about the NRP or the National Reform Programme, but in this part, when we are talking about the pension system, that they expect a level of consensus. It is said that it is not just that we are consulting to coordinate, we are talking, but that in fact the social partners are expecting agreement on such sensitive topics. This is why it is also very important that this process leads, as far as possible, to the Government, because it also includes the whole process – from how the matter is prepared, how it is then discussed within the Economic and Social Council and so on. A negotiating group was also set up immediately after the first presentation of these starting points. This negotiating group will now receive members from all these sides in the coming days, and we will meet intensively precisely in order to work on each of these solutions. In your case, such an approach is generally not possible, given that you are also not members of the Economic and Social Council. In fact, we would like to conduct this process in the same way that the social partners have placed on our hearts to take them into account, listen to them, face different views, different calculations, because possible errors, when such things are done, can be counted in dozens or hundreds of millions of euros. Another thing that is also very difficult is the possible injustices or injustices that would happen in quick moves or not well thought out, which could lead to the fact that it will never be possible to re-balance the system again and we can actually bring it to bankruptcy. The proposals made by the Government also somehow address this area, which you are talking about today, which are somehow part of such a proposal, only in a slightly different way. And why in a different way? Because somehow the so-called insurance principle is taken into account, it is said that one is looking at how much someone paid into the system, how long it took. From here on out, it is necessary to align all these scales with each other in a way that works properly and honestly for all citizens or those who then benefit from the rights of the system. This would certainly be worth mentioning, and you yourself mentioned the minimum pension for 40 years of retirement. One of the considerations that we have had at the Ministry of Labour is that the dose percentages are adjusted to such an extent that they are actually absorbed. What does that mean? This means that you would somehow like the problem that has arisen is that there is a big difference between whether you have 40 years of retirement, or maybe you are only missing one month, that this tooth, which has now happened, which we consider to be unfair, somehow puts it aside so that it will be down and will actually be available for every additional month more, is said to be relatively more, but not substantially, substantially less or substantially more. It is said that we are following a measure of proportionality, and in this way we have also prepared solutions. So from this point of view, when we're talking about disability pensions, when there's an injury at work, or there's a occupational disease, this is currently 57.25%, and we're thinking of a 63% shift here. As far as disability pensions are concerned, when injuries occur outside the workplace, we have a different – 36% for men 39% – uniform in 41%. So it's a little higher again. However, when we are talking about benefits, it is not about invalidity pensions, and I must stress this again, we are talking about compensations of a different nature and purpose, and if an insured person is involved in insurance, this percentage would also be raised from 57.25% to 63%. In the event that it is not included, however, the one currently set as a minimum dose of 26 % in order to increase to 29.5%. Which means, in any case, we are talking about approximate increases for future pensioners, who are there between 5% and 15% according to the current situation. Pension changes are made in principle for the next generation and for those of previous generations, the principle is taken care of by some indexation. In this year, as you know, twice the indexation will be regular and extraordinary. One was already made – 2.7% raise – and the other will be at the end of the year. Here, too, it is necessary to know that the pension system is probably one of the greatest civilizational gains of all time. This is essentially an acquisition that allows for a new way of life, which also assumes that many people, we can say urbanized in cities, not living in that circle of family, are often outside, young people also go either into cities, can go abroad or whatever, that elderly people who can no longer work can be taken care of in an appropriate way, and this system of course also needs to be cared for. Currently there are about 620 thousand beneficiaries, say, those receiving funds from this system. On the other hand, we have about 940, 950 thousand who are paying. Among these, for example, are those who pay in addition to receiving unemployment benefits, and so on. This means that this system is also under intense tension because of population ageing, and it will need to be particularly careful that these relationships are well thought out when they are managed so that there are no problems in the system. Here, when it was also said, for example, whoever did not work can get up to 200 euros more, it is said that if he is disabled, there is not much difference. The second thing I would like to say, which is not important, is that it's not so big a difference, but the second thing is important here; in fact, as I said in the first place, it's a connection in terms of payments. These payments give rise to a right, and then the difference is drawn from another network called essentially a social security network. Therefore, I think it is inappropriate that one protective supplement in one point be called a justification through a protective supplement, as a form of interpretation. It is there that those who do not have sufficient levels of social security and do not have enough rights to be derived from the insurance system — which means that they have paid less than others — obtain a right that guarantees them at least some basic social security to survive. This is essentially the purpose of an application for a protective supplement or some benefit or transfer rights from a social security system. Far from being embarrassing. This system is there to be used by people, so we made it, so this network is there, so that no one will stay, as they would call it, behind. Maybe one more thing from here on out. I've noticed your thought that one of the parties has become a reminder to the other Members, too. I don't think that's bad because, in the basic stage, this contributes to the quality of the debate. If everyone exchanged views, reminders before the debate in the National Assembly, I think that the debate would be excellent, and this would really contribute to better solutions as well. But for those reasons that I have already said before – and I am likely to make another announcement – the Government of this proposal, of course, does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have no word yet, because Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert is still in front of you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. The Secretary of State, these are invalidity pensions — the amounts I was talking about — and not compensation. I actually said that about those who are no longer able to work in the category. So that's not what I'm saying. And when you say so, rescue with a protective supplement. Once again, we have social support in this country higher than someone who has worked, got sick and is disabled. I don't think it's a solution by saying, but now you can, with some form of a protective supplement, then somehow equalize it. It's not a real solution, it's not a fair solution! [[…]] Therefore, raise these lowest at least to the level of those who receive so-called social assistance. Other things we know exactly how calculations are made and how the system works. But look, we've also set the lowest pension. We've set it up, and someone's got it, I don't know, 40 euros, because it doesn't matter, the guy who had 505 euros before, but he didn't get anything because he went up to 500 euros. What you said, you said the truth. Changes in the pension area – yes, they change, but they do. You'll open up new injustices. Those who go to retirement today, and if you accept it in six months, will have a different pension than those who will go in six months with the same working age. You'll open up new injustices! But here you say you will, because you will settle twice a year, save. This will not save those disabled pensioners who have lower incomes than social support. As for what I gained from the coalition – if it is a coalition, as it is said, it is on the head of a political party. All well and good, I'd be very happy if it didn't say why to reject the law in the first place. This is no addition to the debate for me, nor to the quality of the debate, since it is already written in the first sentence why to reject the law. That's how it is in here, what someone's gonna say, bluff, because you're already saying in advance that the law has to be rejected. I have here, if you didn't get it, I can show you. You've met twice, but all you have to do is argue why the law should be rejected. But you had a problem because you had to meet twice. I would also be happy to discuss, and I also said that whatever is wrong, what you said — the imbalance; I agree, let us gladly correct it. Only then will you say where the money comes from, because now you're saying 33 million is a lot. At least we want to fix this lowest category now. Then, of course, when you can, fix the rest. I wonder where you'll get the money for all the measures you're planning, because today's the problem for these pensioners, we've had an estimate of 10,000, probably a few more — not even for that. I'm really wondering where you're going to turn down the money, even though you have such a rich budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs. Iva Dimic, your word. And Mrs. Eva Irgle, please prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I listened carefully to the views of all political parties today on the proposal for a law that would in fact restore perhaps a little more dignity and chances of survival to the disabled. One thought came to me, and this is the thought that in this loving country it is not good to be a farmer, a disabled person, and even an entrepreneur. Why? It is not good to be a farmer because it has been said that they are high officials, and they need to collect the land. Disability is a cost for the country, and there is never enough money to enable them to live a normal, decent life — even discussions about euthanasia. And third, it's not good to be an entrepreneur because you're always and always a fraud. These are three categories for which it is not good for people in such a country to live. It was said that the system uses people to work to the death. To be honest, I want to work until my death, but of course, the work that you can do despite your disability is different. We should build society on enabling people to work and get paid for it. So much so that they can survive. What's going on with the disabled? I've been listening. I've been listening for eight years in the National Assembly. A colleague from SD said we'd find a better way. What path? You've had it in your hands for 10 years at the Ministry of Labour to make things better for the disabled, but we're doing better by giving two euros and taking four. That's how we do it! That's the kind of improvement we're doing. Even with minimum wage. It seems to me that the obvious that we're going here is populism, if we're alerting people with disabilities, we could just bring them back or set up a mirror to turn them off somewhere else. This populism: we know it better, we'll do it. When? We disabled live today, here and now. Every day I meet them at the Oncology Institute, so many young people who aren't really guilty themselves that they can't work. But is that why the state's gonna throw them away so they can't live? Do you want anything else? Different law passed? Being home with 200, and I'll say a little more, with 260 euros, maybe, disability benefits, with two school-bound children, in an apartment or in a house, it seems to me that since you're not disabled by choice, you don't decide where you're going to work and you can weigh disability, you can't weigh disability. [[…]] [[…]] She comes alone, unexpectedly, too fast. It seems to me that everything that is going on, the government has shared these candy in the budget – everything alive. We didn't get any of this from the invalids. Nothing at all. Nowhere. We have to pay for bandages, we have to pay for invalids, we have to pay for extras. We didn't get anything. And it seems to me that we are essential to this society, because each one of you can look at us. I would also like to see some conversion in our Slovenian society in order to manage one common word and actually look for and look at those who really need help. I agree, if you're unemployed, it's bad, but if you're disabled, believe me, it's even harder. To say that we will make a system that will be better, that will be drowned – the disabled will still be among us. They have nowhere to go. And that, I don't know, we're going to collect land for farmers and tax entrepreneurs - where is this money going to go? We did! We taxed the farmers because we raised the cadaster, and we introduced the tax registers, and we taxed the entrepreneurs, all of us – did we get anything more from the disabled? Did the disabled get anything more? None of the invalids have been given any more. But if they do, and I say again, you're doing the math to give 2 euros more, you take 4. I wish we were all equal, as far as certain minimum standards are concerned. I was in Lukovica days ago, when a farmer approached me, he said that he was 60 years old, that he had been insured for 40 years and that he received EUR 227 of pension. I know there's a payment system, whether you're right or wrong, but look, if there's 40 years of pay he said, the one who's at home He said, "I don't mind if they get social assistance 392.75 euros." [[…]] [[…]] I don't mind," he said, "but do you think it's fair that I spent 40 years paying into the pension register, and I get out those 227 euros?" I may have made a mistake about ten euros, but I think it's something like that. The Secretary of State is going to fix it. I mean, the mouth is full of solidarity. We have a solidarity society, we are socially sensitive. We're all socially sensitive. Do you know where we feel socially? Many times only those we meet on the way home and at home. Many times. I hope we're at least there. If each of you had in mind that we are here, in this national assembly called for us to work for the people – the work for the people is important! – then action and understanding on such topics would be full, because anyone could contribute to doing something right, which I think is right for some developed society. In a developed society, in a developed democracy more or less, everyone must live somehow well, because otherwise I do not see any just society. I wish that in the future in Slovenia we could say, look, we are the first country in Europe to take care of a fair society and the right of people with disabilities. They're always talking about people with disabilities, only people with disabilities, and so on. Do you know how many times we've been here to see disabled people? For 25 years, people with disabilities were admitted before we entered Nova Slovenije, as well as the Law on Personal Assistance, which confers a right on disabled people! For 25 years, people with disabilities had the right to have someone to dress and care for them in the morning! I hope that there will not be another 25 years waiting for them to have one as much opportunity as the one who is unemployed. They are both poor; they are unemployed, and they are disabled, who cannot help themselves. That is why they are both of the same value to me, and I want them to be such a payment and such a substitute. We have other forms of people who aren't really guilty, maybe somewhere on the edge of socialism. I'm thinking widow's pensions here, too. There too, the government has drawn up a proposal, but again, the government is preparing a proposal from 12 euros to 17 euros, which is again 5 euros. Then there's electricity, and then there's smoke, and there's an extra 50 of them. It is up to us all to take care in all areas, each and every one of us, in our own environment. We who are chosen from the people are the first to be called upon to follow this and try to change it. For me, the bill is acceptable, and I hope it will be for you. In the light of the fact that each of us knows someone who needs help because I know they're going to your office as well as mine, and you meet them there. I do every day at the Oncology Institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] For a debate? Anyway, you had your word. You now have the floor, Mrs Eva Irgle, and prepare for Mrs Nina Maurovich. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I have listened very carefully to the preliminary views of all the members of the group on the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, as proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party; namely, that the lowest invalidity pensions be raised at least to the level of social assistance. I must say that some arguments, why you will not support this, are not stated, but you will vote against. Let's go in one order at a time. I will begin with what we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party only in this mandate under the government of Marjan Sarca for the adoption of the National Assembly and it has been linked to the issue of pension policy. Why is it important that I say it? In particular, because we are being accompanied by citizens and citizens and those who most vitally want to improve their lives, that is, pensioners, they need to know what was proposed and who rejected it and why it was rejected. Most often without arguments, the only argument that exists in this coalition is non-systemicity and a partial solution. Let's do it in one order at a time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed to raise the minimum pension for old and disabled pensioners three times so far, I think you also have this clearly in the coalition contract, but you move from talking to action to not a millimeter. So, solution, your proposal was partial and non-systemic, and that was the only argument why you rejected such a solution. Another time. We have proposed a rise in the dose rate — you have also refused! Again with the argument that it is a non-systemic solution and a partial solution. Third time. We suggested that the period of retirement should also be taken into account. You have also rejected this, with the same argument, respected colleagues and colleagues. Fourth time. We've suggested eliminating discrimination against farmers' insurers. You also rejected this with the same argument. I would still accept this argument, so that you want to systematically find a solution and then cover all categories in one single law with a solution. I would have accepted that if this government had actually come to the National Assembly with such a proposal. You should have come a long time ago, because that's what you wrote in the coalition contract, and don't do that. And citizens and citizens expect answers, because this is about things that are supposed to improve the situation of citizens and citizens, allowing for a more dignified and dignified life. We have proposed a higher annual allowance for pensioners – here too you have been against the same argument; therefore, none of this has been accepted, the argument has always been the same, that the law is non-systematic and that it is only a partial solution that you cannot support in any way. But what's most interesting is that so many previous governments, left governments, of course, like the current government, have often adopted non-systemic partial solutions and no one has been upset. You are now upset only because the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled this. As long as we stand on the shores in such a way that we weigh whether someone has invested or where someone comes from, who has proposed a solution, then there will be no solution for this country. We have proven several times, as the Slovenian Democratic Party, that we want to work together, not to rule out talking to all partners. And how important this is for pension issues; even if we know that it is such a vulnerable group or the most endangered group of pensioners when it comes to disabled pensioners. See, this solution does not suggest anything but that from about 200 euros we raise their revenue to about 400 euros. It's the only solution. At the time of the budget rebalancing, we could see that money is for interesting things and I do not dispute, but you have decided, but only the policy of some reallocation and taking, say, from one district to another and so on, will not lead to a better quality of life. This way, the quality of life will not rise. It will rise if you create such an environment where, for the first time, people can work and get a fair pay for work, and the standard of living will rise when you create such an economic environment where the economy can actually prosper. When you create such an environment, you will also create a good social policy. Of course, it may seem like a partial solution today because your policy is completely flawed in principle, but to reject such a solution that offers a more decent life to individuals, arguing that the law is not systemic but extremely inappropriate and misleading. For those who accompany us at home today - and those who are affected by this change that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party - are expected to be more than 10,000 - today, they certainly think, but why do these representatives of the people whom we have elected to Parliament not actually see and see my distress, why do they not support such a solution, which is good and does not represent such a financial contribution. The Ministry can say that, too. They did the calculations themselves. Given where the money goes, it doesn't represent any kind of financial, I'm going to say, some problem, and it should be solved immediately. Even if we know that we are looking more broadly at about 60% of pensioners in this country receiving a pension of less than €622. The number of pensioners is lower than 500 euros. About 100,000 people in this country, i.e. pensioners, have a pension of less than €300 or more than €400. Of course, it is not surprising that such pensioners then live, that we have an extremely low intertwined social network, as we are also reminded by various international research. Social networks are around 8% of us in Slovenia, while about 30% of us suffer in this group, i.e. among the elderly, because of depression. The bad news is, since these things are connected, they're not mutually exclusive. So it is the state that has to create an environment so that people can then develop, even when a fall of life occurs, that when they have done their work — and done their work honestly — so that they can help others to enjoy their old age, but they can enjoy a certain age that is dignified, dignified, only in a way that we can take care of them. We have also repeatedly addressed the issue of the elderly on the Human Rights Commission, and again and again these have proved to be facing an increasing inability to cover basic costs of living. As a result, we have also received several petitions or applications from the Commission, and I must also say that the role of social issues is also increasing. When we talk about disability, there is more than a noticeable increase in the number of applications. These, however, state that they can no longer survive the benefits, adding that the situation with any change in legislation is deteriorating and the living level of the disabled is decreasing. Often, this group of people lives below the poverty line. Then there are the pensioners who write to us on a commission saying that pensions are too low, as we have already said, and do not allow a decent life. And of course, in this regard, they are constantly – every day, when they send these things to our personal e-mail addresses – they are proposing to amend legislation and measures as soon as possible. But when the opposition party proposes such a measure, you have no argument as to why you will not support it, but simply decide not to do so. In short, in this country, which, while it has a constitution, is written that it is in addition to the legal one, although it is also questionable at certain levels, but I will not go into this debate, we have written that it is also a social state. And it is true that it is the social state to help those who need help, but it is necessary to know that when we talk about those most vulnerable groups, where the people with disabilities belong, we need to be even more inclined to actually help them. I agree, somewhere it has been said that poverty in many elderly people is sometimes due to too short employment during an active life period. However, as the colleague earlier said, with the disabled, which we are changing here, this is by no means the case. Disability pensioners did their job well, professionally, properly and, last but not least, did it fairly, until the disease occurred most often in the workplace, and were forced to become disabled. And that's what we're doing. I hope that today this debate will go in this direction, but not with some irrelevant accusations that really have no basis, but above all do not contribute to the better life of these most vulnerable groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, as a proponent, perhaps? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I would not like to hear from the other Members now, but unfortunately I have other duties which were not available, which could not be avoided and I will have to leave the meeting, but I will take advantage of my time available, and I will try again to summarise some of the main things. I had previously forgotten to reply to my colleague Victory Jelinčič or SNS, who supported the proposal for a law when he spoke about certain irregularities or he said as a mistake, but I think it should be said that the drop in the dose percentage for all groups had stopped – that was ZPIZ-2, because the valorisation factor had been deleted every year. It's not exactly what he said. There was a lot of talk in between, and somehow we exchanged views with the secretary at the Ministry about the security supplement. It is fair and fair to say here, too, that a protective allowance does not belong to everyone. Not everyone belongs, and right now I've got a message from a lady who said my father went to get an application for his wife's protective allowance, which is what this lady's mother, who didn't have a job before, has no income and so on. They told him you have a house. Now he's asking if we should sell this house to live out of it? So it's exactly what I was saying, because they've created something in the past, it reaches some limits and then they're not eligible for protective supplements. There's still a lot of cases like this. People are reacting now and actually the message is one thing only – here I call all of you –; they say it is difficult to listen to this debate today when you talk about us disabled pensioners when we feel humiliated and overindulgence in this country. But the most painful thing is to compare and talk about, one of them worked 1 year, 2 years, 1 15 years, and so on. That's why it's painful, because it's not that they didn't want to work, but they got sick. One also responded and said that I would immediately replace my position with yours – just one day – and I doubt that you will ever speak in this way again. This is just a call and perhaps someone will think about whether the law I did not say is ideal, even at the beginning I said that I wanted discussions, and also what was the Government's idea, how I wanted to fix disability pensions for all categories within disability pensions, not just the lowest. [[…]] But I doubt that the government is willing to deduct that much, even though the balance of the budget has increased spending by 460 million. If you have serious intentions, let the law go through the first reading, and we'll finish it with that. There will certainly be something between these 460 million that we will be able to solve the matter very precisely, properly, in proportion to all groups. But since we assumed that the problem was going to be money and that you were going to ask where we were going to take it from, we wanted to help really the most endangered group within this category. The worst thing to listen to is when people write to you that they have – I think the gentleman said that he has 320 euros to be exact, disability pensions, and then, because he wasn't able to pay all the bills, he still has 36 euros to pay for that amount. On the other hand, it has to take care of all travel costs, for all forms of treatment, for the help that children provide, but when they are not, to ask neighbors and so on. Can you imagine how these people would have come to retirement homes, given the cost of care, how many children or someone else must add? Each of them says as long as I can take care of myself, because they have different forms of disease, I am happy, I am afraid when I am completely dependent on others, what will happen to me. I really don't understand and see no reason not to help this group today. As we say, you can argue that some relationships are collapsing, but you have demolished them yourself in the past in a much worse way. This isn't a demolition. I don't think any disabled pensioner will be angry if any other disabled pensioner gets at least the amount equivalent to disability support. So once again, to all those who have announced support for the law, I thank you for seeing that in you it is this feeling, that it does not matter who the proposer is, whether it looks ideal with their eyes, but that it is worth supporting and that there is something else to improve with the amendments. All those parliamentary groups, which you have received in the first place in writing, rejected the law, and I hope that only one will think with his head and consider where he lives, what kind of surroundings, and that the disabled are among us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I wish you a pleasant journey on your important journey. You have the floor, Mrs. Nina Maurovich. Get Mr. Joseph Lenart ready. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm just going to agree with a colleague earlier who said that there's no time for any customer interference today. Nor will I react to what has already been thrown in this direction from the other side. Today is a really hard debate because we are talking about a very vulnerable group, and there are a lot of emotions. We are talking again about a nice bill. It is very difficult to defend the position that we do not wish to allow the disabled, the disabled, higher pensions; here we absolutely agree, and here we are probably all in this room on the same side. We know that these pensions are too low, and we know that these pensions must be raised as quickly as possible. And that kind of acting on some emotion, like we're cruel, that we don't want to help vulnerable groups, that we don't have feelings, that we don't have empathy, is really out of place. The only reason why I personally will not support this bill today in particular is that I am not actually one. This is the fact that I have before me and in my hands a proposal for legislative amendments and a supplement to the ZPIZ-2 already prepared by the Government, which provides for a number of measures in the field of disability pensions, including the determination of a higher percentage of disability pension, an increase in disability pension, including in cases of injuries outside work a higher rate of disability benefits and so on. That is the only reason, because I want the government, I want the government, and I have to trust the government to settle this matter as soon as possible. I think the Secretary of Christmas said this very well in one of his answers earlier. However, I fear that the real reason for today's SDS proposal is that they are aware that the adoption of this law actually blocks the procedure of another law, which will allow for higher regression this year. It is not a problem in money, as the proponent said, that this process is blocked, in the very process of how things are going in the adoption of laws. I must say that I did not miss the very pleased smile of the proposer when this fact was exposed. Too bad the cameras probably didn't show it because I think today's debate actually put that smile in the right context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Joseph Lenart, but prepare yourself, Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Allow me to say hello to you today. Good day for a decent life and an effective country. We, the present Members, with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and our country Slovenia, are not able to provide a decent life for those who have left their jobs, even those who have worked practically all their lives. We do not guarantee a decent life for the disabled, nor for the disabled, nor for those who are actually still able to do their job after the remaining working capacity. So, disabled people have been under the acknowledgment all the time during their working hours, when they're active. They want to work. They're having a hard time. Their disease has actually limited them. Today I expect more and more respect for those who somehow have special needs in their work. They're already wearing a big cross, I'm saying that usually each one of us has a cross, so it shouldn't be hard to put into their skin. I'll say that it's enough to think well of myself, to let myself down in their skin for a moment, to try to understand them, and I can feel their anger and disappointment. Today, the financial hardships of those who have to the last believed that retirement will be better, such that it is difficult to listen. All of us can see this every day in newspapers and on TV, and most of all those who really go through the field are people; simple people who are sometimes ashamed to say, as Mr. Secretary of State said, are opportunities for a protective supplement, but they are ashamed to say so because they have worked their whole lives to ask for help. And I'm fighting for you here today. A few quick statistics, namely the poverty threshold for a single person of €635, the average disability pension in 2018 €495, 10 000 pensioners with a lower disability pension of €392. So, what kind of money would we spend giving these people these 392 euros, like we did with financial social assistance? And then, for 7 thousand 500 Slovenians, the situation is much worse, with so many receiving even below 300 euros. Dear colleagues, with such stories as I will now mention two or three, I meet at work in the field and I believe that with some reminders, I like to write it, follow it, and give my speeches, but my best reminder is these stories. These people are in trouble to listen and make a reminder of how we're gonna work here. This message was sent to me by Mr. B., a working disabled person in the area of Ptuj: “Joseph, could I ask the question of a letter if disability could be put back? Because that's what's keeping me from finding a job. I want to work, but I can't get a job. Besides, I don't think I'm missing anything. Now I receive €276 in compensation, and I cannot live from this.” He says he doesn't have anyone to help him, and he texts me. Then, of course, I will give this further to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, and normally I will also get an answer that we all know is impossible to cancel a disabled person's decision. Today you say you're not disabled anymore, but you want to work. There are a lot of people here who have encountered this, but today they say otherwise because the bosses said so. We're here, I can tell you, it can be really embarrassing. Why? Because we are actually spending more time in this country to have the rights of sloths, to have the rights to protect all the animals, and I don't know, lately about euthanasia. There are other things that are important, but there is so little time, and we're going to focus on those who barely survive, and it's really up to us to imagine. The next one was a letter to my e-mail. Mrs. K., a working disabled woman with 24 years of work. It says that she has already written to her doctor, the competent CSD, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. “I also wrote to President Pahor, ZPIZ.” – and in the end it's written to us, probably more of you have received this e-mail. Since she is partially retired, she cannot retire fully with disabilities. She received a negative opinion from the disability commission, despite the more difficult movemental obstacles. He lives with a miserable compensation that is not to live and not to die. Finally, she adds that she is likely to die of nervousness or other illness before she has to pay her pension. Then, if I touch the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities again, now he wants to activate these people, but this goes very slowly and we will not achieve this in six months. Activating people means, first, destroying the fear of employers from working with a disabled person – and this does not happen quickly – by evading them. These people are aware that they're in a standstill, and we're here to get them out of that dead corner, out of that corner. Now Marjan Papež, director of PIZ, acknowledges that the reform of disability insurance is always forgotten. Of course, it would be right for everyone to have the right to professional rehabilitation. And once again, if we are sympathetic to these stories, it is not possible for someone to say that the SDS is promoting something again. It's actually a client who feels with these people. We actually go to the field and we hear there and that's our reminder of our work. And even if I say so, people scream, and some say they're too loud. We can't hear them. Therefore, some or yesterday I have heard that some have too many decibels, but some have to increase them a little to hear these distresses. [[…]] Then from the media, one story: “I am 45 years old and have been disabled for more than ten years because of a more severe leading epilepsy, which I had at the age of 14 years. I'm receiving 279 euros in pension. I am a tenant of a nonprofit municipality apartment and a mother of a son who goes to the fourth grade of elementary school. I ask why no politician talks about invalidity pensions before the elections, as if they do not exist. Would it not be right for them to raise you, because more and more disabled pensioners live in poverty?" This is what Mrs. Sara from Maribor asks. We know that while the country is putting in other protective supplements, this person can come to an estimated EUR 600 per month, but he has to ask for it. And they don't want to ask because they're not used to asking in life, they want to work. And this thing doesn't go together, and people still believe that it's going to be written on some of their properties, on the base of their residence, on the house, if they're going to get a security allowance here. We've scared them before, and now we're making excuses so they can get him. I will continue to say this, alone and also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, to ensure that those who have worked have at least as much as those who have not yet needed them. Let them have these 329 euros, I will not say anything, but I will only ask for this proposal and amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you very much to all who have a heart, and thank you very much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you for the debate, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Get Mr. Ange Logar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much. You know, none of us Members have a stone instead of a heart, or as they say in that fairy tale: and we are all in the field, and we all hear these stories, and we all hear them. We have repeatedly addressed our initiatives to the competent ministry at the Modern Centre Party in the previous mandate, of course with requests that these things should be regulated, that pensions should be made, that disability pensions in particular should be dealt with. Why have dosing percentages declined over 20 years and over? How could you have landed on this in the past, I wonder. I'm seriously asking myself, and I wish it weren't like that. But it is, and it will be difficult for you to convince me that there is a proposal that regulates the matter in two articles and in which all concepts are mixed, that I do not really understand what you wrote in Article 2 – I will later say why – this is some serious proposal with some serious intentions. In a few sessions, we had a number of such suggestions where you spoke out loud about how you handled yourself, how you handled yourself; but in fact, one or two articles are written on paper, which are actually something different from what you are really saying. And I don't like it, I really don't like it because you do one thing, you say another; but in the camera you say some things that actually have nothing to do with reality. I have already stated in my presentation what happened in the previous term, how you successfully blocked one government law, which was a good law that we now have after just one year, back on the table because of all the procedures and procedures that I believe you know very well and that you are exploiting. And I'm sorry it's gonna happen this time, too. In my opinion, the government has made good proposals, which, of course, I expect to be further upgraded and upgraded, but proposals that actually address this issue and address it more comprehensively, which we have already discussed. In fact, this proposal will then be blocked if this matter remains in the process and is now confirmed in the first reading. The Secretary of State has already said very comprehensively what this government proposal is. He also talked about numbers, but he would still go a little bit through it, because I think it's necessary to tell how the government sees the title of this problem. The government foresees an increase in the dose rate for all pensions, including invalids, including widows, including family and so on. The proposed dose percentage is 63% for women, an additional 63% for each child. The government also foresees an increase in the minimum pension for 15 years. As I said, raising the lowest basics for widow's and family's pensions, which is also problematic at this point because these pensions are so low. Setting a higher percentage for invalidity pensions when disability is caused by injury at work to 63%, an increase in disability pension in case of injury outside work or occupational illness before the age of 65 years to 41% and a higher rate of disability benefit where it would be administered from a base of 63%. This means then some total percentage of these pensions and refunds, as the Secretary of State said, differing for each category, but between 5% and 15%, according to the current situation. What I would have warned and what has now been very generalized in all previous discussions is that we are just talking about invalidity pensions and do not separate a disability pension from a compensation, because also in this Article 2 of this proposal it is written: The insured person who has obtained the right to a disability pension – so he is retired and writes on – and has the remaining working capacity and is registered in the employment institution as a job seeker. Here are some things that don't go along with the actual situation. Because if he's got a pension, he's retired. There are those persons with disabilities who are under the second or third category who may be partially retired and have some remaining working ability; then you also talk about those who are registered in the employment agency as job seekers. Before the start of her term of office, the colleague worked at the Employment Service and explained thoroughly to me the difference between the two records, the real job seekers and the unemployed; and I am afraid that you actually listed the wrong record here, and she will probably tell you why. I also want to say that the disabled of the first category have absolutely no more working ability and capacity, and it is certainly necessary to address these to the extent that they do not fall below the poverty risk threshold; surely. I also understand and empathize with everyone who says they have a problem making a difference in social life. I understand, but social security is here to be used when an individual is socially at risk, that's why. And it would also be right and be up to the individual to make this difference to the amount of financial social assistance or to the security allowance, which is still a little higher to apply it, of course. That's the system, and no shame in taking advantage of it. But I understand why people feel that way and why they have a problem with it. As for disabled people receiving disability benefits, it is said that to some extent they are still able to work, although they have certain limitations, these are different in every disabled person, I have obtained some data because I was interested in how many of these and how many of those who have found a job successfully despite all these restrictions. I am pleased with the facts and figures that these numbers are growing all the time, which is certainly good; however, in this area it is necessary to make every effort to improve this situation further. In particular, I think it is necessary for employers to raise one awareness, one responsibility towards these people, so that such a person can also benefit them in the collective, and that such a person can also be paid for a long period of time, to go across from him, to adjust his job. I think that these skills and this awareness may still be insufficient among employers, what can be done for such a person even then in the workplace to meet them. And let me just read for the last few years, where, say, in a given year, I'm going to say about now that not all the numbers, about 2,000 people with disabilities with a variety of limitations get a job and they've checked out of the employment office. In the first two months of this year alone, it was 376. What's sort of a summary of everything, and I believe we're all the same opinion, pensions are certainly too low, for sure. The dose percentage is certainly too low for all, not just for the disabled. Some steps were taken in the previous term when pensions at the lower limit were limited. The full-age and full-time pension is now 530, I think, around here. Persons with disabilities are still a special category to be taken care of. And we need to look very carefully at how to deal with this problem so that we do not create new injustices. Every time I talk to someone, every time I read a message, everyone reminds me – and that's when it was fixed, but it created so many and so many new injustices. Of course, I am aware that the system is not here and not in any other area will never be just for all, it will never be as an individual would like, but it is certainly this area to be addressed. I really hope that we will come to the point where a government proposal that is certainly better than what we have on the table today will come to a vote so that we can confirm it. The numbers that the Secretary of State has said, which are in this proposal and which will also be coordinated in social dialogue, which is also the right thing to do to get them on the table and finally confirm them. And then we expect further steps to be taken, especially in these vulnerable categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Before you get the word, Dr. Ange Logar, I'm going to read the current list of applicants because it's substantially changing. Your turn will be Mr. Marijan Pojbič, then Mag. Branislav Rajić, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, will be followed by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Igor Zorčič is the last to be reported. Here you go, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much, President. I am an optimist, I believe in the power of parliamentary debate, which means that Members are independent persons who, when sitting behind parliamentary benches, decide on the basis of arguments, not on the basis of party discipline or on the basis of the executive branch of power ordering them. The parliamentary branch of power is the second branch of power, and I think that we Members must be very well aware of this. Practically from all the parliamentary groups, I have heard that disability pensions are too low, virtually everyone. There has been a lot of confusion and searching for reasons why we would not confirm a proposal, but we generally all agree that this is the case. Remember the November debate on the proposal to raise monetary social assistance to a level of 392,75 euros. The key argument or the main argument of the government and the proponents was that this is a minimum of unworthy but also life in the Republic of Slovenia. Under this, it is unacceptable, perhaps all of us agree, and under this amount, it is unacceptable. Now we're coming up with an interesting situation. Someone who doesn't have a single day of work gets €392; someone who can't work because of his disability doesn't get €392. Now tell me why we are Members of this world. So that we can correct this discrepancy and put it in the normal frame as far as possible. And we are all aware of it, and the government is aware of it, but now only the other thing is missing — the autonomy of Members to do what is right. Not as the executive branch of power says, but as the electorate said. Do you know what our situation is today? We have about a situation of someone drowning in front of us in the sea, drowning, visualizing it, drowning in front of us. We want to jump in and rescue the drowning. And the secretary of state from the Ministry of Labour comes along and says to us, "You know what, there's a sign that swimming is forbidden." And he also adds: One way or another, in two and a half hours, comes a ferry that has a lifeboat. You'd be watching. The ferry is a systemic solution because it has a lifeboat. The sign that it is forbidden to swim — yet he swims and drowns — is his fault — but the adoption of this proposal will bring new injustices. Come on! It will save 10,000 people the injustice that happens to them every day, every month. As I said, we say that €392 is a minimum, but here we have those who can't do anything because they are disabled; and they need to be provided with these €392. Here I have the report of the Committee on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits, i.e. the money social assistance you discussed in November to raise to €392. And I'll just read a few statements back then. I quote: “The members of the committee have warned that other vulnerable groups of the population with the lowest income, low pensions, invalidity pensions should also be taken care of.” Did you say that at the time? You are. That's what we're proposing. Come in. “From the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a decision has been proposed to ensure an adequate increase in early and old pensions lower than the basic amount of minimum income to the level of minimum income.” The list of Marjan Sarcas found that the pension was lower than that and that it was necessary to raise it. That's when you suggested it. This is proposed in another law. We have proposed this now, even on the basis of what you said in that debate in November. The representative of the Social Democrats Group said that their parliamentary group would not object to the bill's proposal, but they are aware that there are imbalances. It warned of disproportionateity, but it confirmed this law and added it – it is also necessary to amend the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, precisely because of these differences. We've prepared this and we've invested in the procedure. Furthermore, there was a debate on the amendment of the SDS Group, when we wanted to resolve this at that stage, with which a coordination allowance for pensioners was proposed, and most discussers felt that different topics should be regulated by different laws, in which case the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. That's why the amendment didn't get any support. That's when you said that's why. Now we've put it in the Disability and Pension Insurance Act. What do you say now? All the arguments, the expression of reconciliation, when you raised the social benefits, we used to prepare this law; and if you followed those words then, today the "I" is clear on your part for this bill, not "No". Let us go to what the executive branch of power, that is, the government, says why they are ordering you not to support this bill. “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the difficult social situation in which some are recipients of a disability pension.” He realizes and says that only some, so not all, some. If there are some, is it systemic or non-systemic? Love reigns, it's non-systemic. If you allow some beneficiaries of a disability pension to be in a very difficult position, more difficult than they could afford, this is an irregularity. And it is unsystematic to leave that way; but not to oppose the solution that brings it to an end. “However, it does not consider that it is appropriate to solve problems in part and only for some individuals within the system.” One more time, he's drowning. He drowns a disabled person with 250 euros a month who can't work; you say, the sign is that he can't swim here, and the help comes in two hours with the ferry. Next: He opposes the proposal of the law, “it destroys relations that are established at the level of recognised rights and in an inadequate manner.” Come on! Ten thousand people in the 650-thousand-thousand-retirement corps are taking down the sieve. It's less than 2%, and that's what breaks the system. It doesn't break the system; it does. He establishes it because it raises or restores dignity to those whom you have taken from them because they have an unacceptablely low income, to which everyone here in this hall fits. Come in. “The Government also considers that it is not reasonable or fair to raise rights only to certain recipients of insurance rights, but it is necessary to find an appropriate solution for all recipients in a way that will maintain the right relationship between these beneficiaries.” Under the line, let's discuss, let's do nothing, let's wait. That is true, the statement made by the Secretary of State of Christmas, who says that a working group is being formed to create negotiations, is a major debate that there will be calculations so that there will be no mistakes. Great, great, but in the meantime, you drown. In the meantime, a man drowns. When you accepted just before the elections, you were the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance, the money social assistance, then you did this – one, two, three, the law came because Levica proposed and you accepted. One, two, three, no discussion, there were no accounts. Previously, you said you wouldn't support it because you had to think twice about not having any additional injustice. This is where you got your injustices from that proposal back then, and you didn't think of anything. Today, for 10,000 people, you do not want to react, as you say, you need to think carefully that there will be no injustice. Crime is happening today, now, at this point, every month when you do not regulate or when you do not raise these minimum invalidity pensions to the level of at least the minimum you have experienced here, in the National Assembly, with financial social assistance. Next: “If all disabled persons were to receive a disability pension in the amount of the basic amount of minimum income, the ratios that exist in pension and disability benefits would be broken, which is not appropriate.” Come on! It's not appropriate what it is now. That's not appropriate! Why are you? Because of the laws or because of the people. You are to propose laws that we accept as human beings in the National Assembly, not to change laws or not to change laws, because you say that this would not be appropriate, even though the result of these laws is inadequate. We have to admit that. The result is inadequate and has to be saved, man drowns, I say again. You further say: “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia further explains that beneficiaries of invalidity pensions are not considered to be unemployed persons and therefore cannot be registered at the employment institution, because they receive a disability pension for the very reason that they are no longer able to work to the extent that they are able to provide livelihoods with their work.” So they depend solely on their pension, on the social state; and you don't give it to tens of thousands. This is your responsibility, or, honourable Members, this is our responsibility because the government here has cancelled. It is our responsibility, and it is we who are now evidently called upon to save these injustices. Dear Government, explain this sentence to me in your opinion, which rejects this bill, which I really do not understand, at least I hope I do not understand it, because otherwise you have lost all respect for me, and that is true. I'll read it, fellas, if you understand. “ Last but not least, we explain that it is not necessarily that some individuals are not really guilty of not having enough retirement age because they have a disability. ” What do you mean that the disabled are to blame for not having enough retirement age, or were you going to say that, or what? [[…]] Explain this law to me. What did you mean by this law, why do you not support this law? I'm sorry, if that's what you're suggesting, but you've gone far across the border, especially because you, too, are personally from the so-called moral-ethic former government. Let me refer to what the Secretary of State has also pointed out when he said it might be good, but it is good that a reminder of the coalition from the List of Marjan Sarca came to the other Members. Yes, in a way, it is good, given that all your suggestions from the governments of the coalition Members take into account that they will also take into account in advance and will send all the reminders of the laws proposed to us, the other Members, to see what kind of mindset the coalition Members are thinking. That'll be pretty good. Yes, I recommend the same, but let's go over this reminder you received today's decision to justify your voice "no" to the proposal to amend pension legislation, so that disabled pensioners also get at least the minimum €392. You say: "The Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2012 was a systemic solution, in the meantime it was complementary, but never touched on the regulation of disabled pensioners. The income of these is significantly lower than the amount of monthly income that limits to the poverty threshold.« Do you feel the weight of those words? “The revenues of these people are significantly lower than the monthly income, which limits to the poverty risk threshold.” You have also learned this from the Coalition Members of the Reminder. Will you listen to the government that tells you not to solve this? Will you listen to the government when they clearly tell you in your reminder that these people cannot live with these resources? Once again, they're drowning. They figured it out themselves. Next: “It was also agreed that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should send arguments against the proposed law.” You must ask them, the government, to send you proposals that you will use here to oppose this law. What are you, an independent branch of government or an extension of government or ministry?Oh, my God! Can't you make up your own arguments against it and therefore you have to ask the executive branch of power, that is, the government, to send you these arguments? I'm sorry, but it's a bit of parliamentaryism that you have to ask the government about the arguments to be used here against a bill that saves 10,000 people and doesn't have a color label or can't be tied to one or the other political option. And what is the ministry up to now, really? Let's say what you could say on the proposal of the Ministry here today. “The proposed solutions would break down the relations established with regard to the level of recognition of rights.” Your Honor, we're talking about minimum standards. About the standards that we've all agreed on so we can't go under. But some are still under it. That argument is empty. “The proposal would mean the introduction of a pensioner.” Do you know what a balance sheet means? The balance sheet means the limit up so no one goes beyond that. There are minimum standards down there. We all agree with minimum standards, which are also justified by the disabled, not only by the unemployed, but also by the disabled. This argument is also empty. For example, individuals who do not have the status of disabled persons have no income from the pension system in the event of a loss of employment until they meet the age conditions, even though they may be socially threatened and have paid into the system for a long period of time. But, you know, they have one major advantage, so it's uncomparable. They're not disabled. They're not disabled. It's a major asset. And if we move forward, which you used today, you bought the argument the government made you. In a specific case, this would mean that if someone who had contributed 32 years before the disability pension and only one year in the event of retirement at the same age were deprived of the first pension because 32 had paid and the second had only one year, he would be entitled to a disability pension. Do you know what a cruel truth is? To give it all for 32 years, I'd give it all, believe me. Everything. And he's deprived because he could only pay for one year. Some people don't even have anything yet. I have someone in my family who hasn't paid for it, and I know what it's like. It's not that simple. And in such a language, to bring the law that is necessary to be adopted, excuse me, it is best to sum up the words that are written by the LMŠ Group in its reminder under paragraph or the title of the Arguments against the adoption of the law, which reads: “The law that we have before us manifests inequality.” But you imagine that expression. “The proposal of the law that we have before us manifests inequality.” It manifests inequality what we have today to have a disabled person – who has paid for at least some time or even if he has not paid anything, because he is, as you can see, unable to work, unable to change anything, is dependent only on the social state, is disabled – and a lower pension than someone who does not work is able to work. It's a systemic inequality. It's that inequality. And it's a manifestation to maintain such a system, a manifestation of inequality. This needs to be resolved immediately. These people, as I said, are drowning. And that the measure will then be full, which makes me a little less optimistic than I was at the beginning, I will say, which is disappointing, is the reason, I think that it has also been said earlier that you reject this law: the coordination agreed that the bill would be rejected because it impeded the adoption of the novel STIZ by which the government wants to relieve the regression. Do you know what that means? Those who already have a little more regression are so valuable to the government because they carry popularity, electoral votes; that those 10,000 who cannot live, who have a lower pension than minimum standards, are not entitled to have their situation resolved beforehand. They are not justified in your opinion, just to raise that regression to say, "Here, public servants, we have raised our salaries, we have regressed, great, see how good we are, the second tranche will get in November, how good we are." These 10,000 people who are drowning are irrelevant to you. Not because of the content, because of the procedure, you reject this bill because it would come into force a little later; or if we did, we could do one, two, three, not necessarily to reject anything. And this argument that you already have the novelty of the law on pension and disability insurance, which changes it to save everything there; great, great. But our proposal in no way hinders this, but only the starting point will be slightly different, that 10,000 people will no longer have to change this thing, and everything else is the same. So there is no substantive or procedural reason to oppose. I think that this is one of those laws that simply needs to be supported in this national assembly if the National Assembly wants to maintain some integrity that it does, and if it is a assembly of people's electorates who advocate for people. If it is, then this law must simply be adopted. And I can't be surprised by Mr. Lepo of Desus Group, Desus – a client of pensioners who says I quote him, I had to write that down because the thought was from space: “But it is not appropriate to accept him so easily.” It's not appropriate, it's urgent to accept it, it's urgent, it's easy. And this is one of those laws in which I think that, after voting for this law, those who voted against this bill should be made public. I rarely say this, but this law does need to be because it does not take anything from anyone, takes nothing from anyone, compares or at least brings that minimum honesty, takes into account all the principles that have been proposed by the representatives of the various parliamentary groups in the National Assembly in past discussions; and is very simple and quickly adopted. And those who vote against this law, I think these names really need to be published for one simple reason, because you have to stand for your actions. And this is one of those actions that separates you from whether what you have in the program, what you promise or what you say in the previous debates in the National Assembly, then what you take in your vote; or whether you are just bluffing and doing what the government suggests to you. Then you are really just a voting machine, far from what individual parties stand for in public appearances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now here's the thing. He will be the first to receive the word of the representative of the Government, Mr Tillen Bozič, followed by Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, and as the last on the list of Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I'd like to respond to a few things that have now been exposed. As regards the separation of the Government and the National Assembly, I think this is clear; we have prepared or the Government has adopted an opinion which has been forwarded, and you have received the same opinion. This aspect is clear; then how you decide Members is your business, of course, and we respect that. As far as the debate is concerned, I was not in that debate in November 2018, but I listened carefully to what you said. These 392.75 euros are mentioned and I would like to draw a very clear line here. We have pension and disability insurance, that's one cash register and that's insurance. Depending on how much someone has paid, a certain right is then measured and received. If it is found that, as you say, someone is drowning, a lifeboat is available on site. This works by saying that someone has a problem, so we have more institutions, one of them in a particular case could be a social work centre, turn to them, and there are professional colleagues who check the matter. If they find out, and act immediately and measure the aid, it can be monetary social assistance, it can be extraordinary monetary social assistance, it can be a protection allowance, it can be one of the many measures we have in the field of social policy to help. But the core part, the one that comes from the pension register, is tied to the period and extent of the payments that have been made to this cash register. For this reason, even in the event that this accident does not occur, it does not result from work, but comes from other activities of an individual, then it is also foreseen and added to certain years of pension age, which are added, as stated. For a period of 30 to 60 years, if two thirds are taken; from 60 to 65, one half is taken. It is said that somehow one period for which an assessment is made, how much this additional period would be, and is added to the age that has already been achieved; and in this way also the right that belongs is measured. Even when it comes to looking at what is available to an individual in this country, it must not be seen in a partial way, but it must be seen how a social assistance network is done, from those rights arising from payments to those that do not result from payments, but are the general rights that we guarantee to citizens who are temporarily or permanently in a situation in which they can be helped in this case. As far as what you have mentioned is concerned, there will be various debates on how this is going on and that there will be a working group and so on. The progress of work on the Economic and Social Council is formalised and the negotiating group is set up to negotiate and eventually negotiate. For this reason, the plenary also monitors what is happening in these groups; and of course progress needs to be reported. Our assessment is that it is necessary for us to be able to reach consensus in the coming months, then to return to the coalition, then to you, even to the opposition. I have always been in favour of having the proposals that we have, when they are sufficiently completed or at the stage when they can already be submitted to the National Assembly, presented to everyone. And in the case of pension issues, that's basically the basis. Then we will ask you to accept us, explain to you what we wanted to solve, why we think so, what our foundations are, you will also give your opinions. And if it were possible and, of course, in cooperation with the coalition, perhaps even your thought, if you noticed that we had missed or could be better able to save them, you would upgrade them. But without coordination with the Economic and Social Council, which – I must repeat – has demanded agreement on these issues, we cannot go and we must do so, which is also right, because the consequences are usually great, from the point of view of the individual and also from the point of view of the system. Some of you have said that they are in a difficult situation, which is based on our opinion, and we are aware of that, so on the other hand we also have a system of various assistance. As regards the breakdown of relationships, this data is true because it is an insurance system, the solidarity is on the other hand, although there is also a certain solidarity guard installed here in terms of the added years, which are added together and so on, and also as regards the dose percentages. And as far as the changes that are planned are concerned, we are addressing a really, really large population. We will deal with the future as regards invalidity pensions, as far as disability benefits are concerned, as far as family, widow's, minimum pensions are concerned, and so on. All these matters are open and ready in negotiating venues to be discussed. I still think that this country is a social state, and it is up to us, including the Government, even Members, to try to regulate this somewhat reasonably, so that it will work for a long time, and in some areas there will certainly be a need for improvement. Maybe another addition there, when there was one sentence with a triple thread, which, I agree, was an unfortunate approach to writing sentences, at least. There was one point, just that if someone were to work or be insured and work at a higher age, let's say at about 45, even in practice they wouldn't be able to collect more than that many years, even if they were working, there would be no disability. Or if disability occurs, it is still just a set of flights that it can collect and a very limited set of insurance or insured income that it can expect. However, this part would now end with one general observation concerning, in fact, all those who will receive funds from our pension disability system. It must be borne in mind that it is very important to know how much of the individual’s income is secured for both pension and disability purposes. That is why I would appeal here in particular, and it also happens that some people are relatively good at this time also, let's say, lower wages at the expense of certain payments of diaries and other types of costs. These costs, and this income received, are not insured, which can mean a significant deterioration when someone needs either a pension or – I hope never – a disability pension. For this reason, it is very important for everyone to consider and ensure that the comparable income he receives is also adequately ensured that he or she can enjoy an adequate level of rights at an old age or later, as is the case with the standard that he or she is about to become accustomed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. On the basis of the Secretary of State's words, I will point to the tragedy of the situation as we have it. The State Secretary of Christmas presented the process of amending pension legislation through the social council, which is formalized; the second, read under the line, takes a long time. He hopes that there will be a consensus within a few months, and then he will come to the opposition, present these proposals, and hope that we will coordinate. Earlier, Mrs Maurovic of LMŠ said she hoped that the proposal would come to the vote at some point in the National Assembly. I would, if, maybe, after a while, it would take some time. In the meantime, 10,000 of them will receive 250 euros or a little more, which is unworthy and inappropriate, in view of what we discussed in the Chamber, and in view of what we have agreed on here. You are talking about this pension reform, which is, for example, the reason that this separate solution, necessarily, is not resolved. But I will remind you of the Government's reply to the parliamentary questions on Monday, where your legislation did not refer to you as a pension reform, but I will say that it is a minor change in the law on pension and disability insurance, only the coordination of some solutions. A minor change, therefore, is not a pension reform that will solve everything. So yours won't be a system that will solve everything. And here's just one piece for those emergencies that need this thing. And stop talking about this proposal breaking the system. Don't break the system. We have agreed here, in the National Assembly and in general, on minimum standards. Minimum standards are, as you said, as the Ministry of Labour said, 392,75 euros. These are minimum standards. This must be ensured to everyone, regardless of what you say; and do not break the system if someone is disabled to get 392,75 euros. It does not break the system, it is the minimum standard that needs to be ensured today; but not as you said, formally, through the world and then through talks, and we hope that we will find a solution. This needs to be done today, and today this bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is given by the representative of the Government of Tillen Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u84	It is only fair that he somehow reaches out to all to raise himself up; and that is also the intention of the government, and that comes from the starting point, and you can expect that from us.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Get Alice Jeraj ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, my dear colleague, Secretary of State of Tillen, I would like to ask you, or I would ask you, if I may say so myself, that there will be no mistake if you are talking about some things, so that you respect them within the government. You spoke today about the Economic and Social Council's agreement that no solution would be adopted without the consent of the Economic and Social Council. What happened to social assistance in the rise? Did you have the consent of all the social partners? Did you? What did you then say to Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament? What were you talking about, Mr. Tillen? That this is absolutely necessary and we cannot wait for the consent of all the social partners and so on. Thus, for social assistance, because it has squeezed you into as a Levica, since this government would no longer exist, there was no problem raising social assistance to €392 without the consent of the social partners. Now tell me who else in this national council can say that this government is credible! Who, tell me! Members and Members, it doesn't matter who is in which political option. We save people's hardships, dear friends! And there can't be a question. Just as my colleague Logar very, very nicely explained in one of the comparisons he was trying to explain to himself as our Mr. Honourable Secretary of State, Tillen. He was just explaining himself. Whether he understood what my fellow Member wanted to say or not, that's another question; I don't know because I listened to Tilna's debate and my colleague. I don't think if you'd listened to him correctly, then the answer you gave him was inappropriate; that's my assessment. Dear colleagues, I really ask you once, see if it is important who proposes any solution in the National Assembly, which policy option. Is this important for us who decide here, who should decide everything in the interests of the people? Does this matter who proposes a solution? Are all of us together with the government able to find the right solutions for this vulnerable group of people that are far from being solved? Are we capable of this? But now we don't listen to each other at all, we sit in this House and we don't hear each other, we don't listen, we don't listen, we listen to each other over there, because you know everyone sitting here that I'm right. All of you, who feel our country as a constitutionally defined social state, know that we are right that this problem is so acute, it has come so far that it is absolutely necessary to solve it. Because if we could raise social assistance to €392, there was no problem, but there was money, and there was everything, and on the other hand, look, I'm going to ask you very clearly, and I'm asking someone to replicate it to me. [[…]] I ask the government and you who are sitting here, Members and Members, regardless of who is in which political option, whether you can imagine surviving from 244 euros a month. Dear colleagues, tell me if you have a soul, you have a heart. Have you ever seen a man who has to spend a month with that money? I don't know what else to say! [[…]] If you have little soul, little heart, little personal responsibility, everyone in their constituency has quite a few! Imagine, 244 Euros! And he has to pay for everything, he has to eat! Can you buy some milk? He can't buy it! He can't even buy bread, look, because he has to pay for electricity, pay for water, and I don't know what else he has to pay for. And today you are opposed to helping this group of people, there are 10,000 of them. What kind of heart do you have? Tell me what kind of man you must be! What a man you must be, say it! The government has written that this would require €14.7 million per year. By raising government spending by half a billion euros! For half a billion euros for those groups that are doing relatively well in this society — some, not all — that are doing relatively well. Does this government even know what priorities are? Dear Members and Members, forgive me for raising my voice a little, for my soul is in pain. I can't believe it. Because there can't be a man in the National Assembly who doesn't understand it the way I do. In order not to understand that a man with 244 euros, whether he has one year of work or 30 years of age, cannot live. By God, you all know he can't live! And now we're going to be splitting up here looking for a million excuses to break up a relationship. We're not breaking any relationship! My colleague made that very clear. These people need help, they need to be helped so that they can survive at least from month to month. We owe it here, we owe it to you! With half a billion euros in cost increases for the operation of the country and the whole system, we have increased half a billion, but now we cannot find this vulnerable group of 14.7 million at the annual level. Tell me, dear friends, whether any of you have the heart to vote against such a law today! Does anyone have a heart? See, if you have been elected by people, and if you believe in this and work for the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, then you cannot have the heart to vote against such a proposal, not because of me, not because of the Slovenian Democratic Party, not because of you, whoever is in any party, but you are obliged, if you have little heart, to support such a proposal of law. Since the first treatment is, we have a chance to solve things in the second reading, there is no problem. All that is needed is to make this law go through and help this group ten thousand people, because once again I can tell if someone can replicate and tell me that it is possible to survive with 244 euros a month. I'll tell you one of you to tell me that I'm wrong and that someone can survive. We have here someone to take care of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, everyone in their constituency or all Members for the whole country. You can't get past this, my dear colleagues! You can't. You have no excuse here. Nobody. You really don't have it. Imagine having a brother, a sister, an uncle, or anyone living with 244 euros. Imagine that. Imagine inside yourself whether it was your fault if you only worked for a year and became disabled. Is it your fault if you get a disability? And now here we're gonna talk about breaking up a relationship! For social assistance, no problem, no consensus, no agreement, just because this government will stand. I think it's extremely incorrect. If you've already missed it, dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to stay here on behalf of these disabled workers. Do it. Neither will the government fall because of this, nothing will happen, but we will all say that we have helped the most vulnerable group at this time in our society. This is our mission, our duty. On the other hand, dear colleagues, look how many privileged pensioners we have. Look, there's no problem, 10, 20, 50 million — no problem! And they have a superstandard, they go to Switzerland, they enjoy themselves as little gods, we don't have any problems right now at the Constitutional Court, to give everyone everything they've been reduced. There's no problem. But here I have a problem for these 100 euros or 120 euros, let's say that this would increase the pension in order to achieve that amount of social assistance. Here's the problem. Dear colleagues, this is a country that lives in two worlds. I don't think that's right, it's not fair, it's not fair, it's extremely unfair, and I'm going to say it's extremely unacceptable. Please, I'm asking you very nicely, gather so much power, and I'll tell you once again that this will not cause the government to fall, that nothing bad will happen, that only one extremely good thing will happen, and that is that we will help the most vulnerable group in our society. Those who can vote against it today when we vote that someone gets 244 euros for survival have nothing to look for in this National Assembly. That's what I'm telling you. Believe me, in the long run, this will show that there is nothing to look for in this national council. As I have already announced many times in the National Assembly after five terms that if you are elected here, you must work for the people, you must overcome the political divide. You have to overcome this because when it comes to people in all political options, these disabled and the disabled we are talking about today are in all political options, but they are not guilty if they are disabled. Whether they have a year or five, ten or 50 — excuse me, not 50, 30 years of working age — they must have a minimum minimum to survive. That's what he's got to have. And that's what we have to do, regardless of politics, regardless of the client. In the name of God of the world, please do not allow this fiasco today so that we can step over this heart energy that we must have who we are elected to the National Assembly! We have to have her here. We have to show her here. Step into the shoes of a gentleman or lady who has 244 euros, stand here in the story and you will see, you will never listen to any government, nobody to help if you have the opportunity to experience it yourself. I know three or four people in Slovenia, but as we've learned, 10,000 people, and when you get to their homes, I'll tell you you can't talk, you just can't talk when you see it. If we had experienced this, believe me, we would not have discussed it today, we would not have discussed it at all, and the coalition would have said, look, without saying anything, we would have done it immediately. Now! Even if an extraordinary meeting of one committee, another, is to be held tomorrow, a solution must be made. Then they would show me the soul, belonging to their people, to their people, from whom we were placed in the National Assembly. Really, and I conclude here, I ask you, not for me, not for the SDS, because of you, because of those who voted for you, you cannot go beyond supporting this law today and not help these 10,000 people who have 240 or 244 euros in disability pension. Please do this for the people, this also, I'm sure, people expect because there is no lower afternoon. If we were able to raise social assistance without any compromise and we also know what amount we are giving for it, then please, let's find these 12, 13 million because we can find them, enough is enough. Definitely. We have a whole bunch of things where money goes — and I'm not going to say it in any way. Last time I talked about one case, but not to spread things in such a way today, that someone would have the feeling that it is a policy, I want to say that it is a matter, and when we understand that it is a matter, we will also understand our mission and then we will also decide by our conscience and not by political affiliation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. State Secretary Tillen Christmas has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you. I would only give one further explanation; what was said concerning the consent of the Economic and Social Council. It is essentially the expected standard that they have specifically highlighted; it is said that when we talk about changes in the pension system, they expect agreement. There is a sense of agreement; in other cases, it is usually a matter of consultation or some way of addressing their initiatives, and in this case a step further needs to be achieved. As for Good, the change in financial social assistance, I'm sorry I wasn't at that meeting, so it's hard to comment on that part. [[…]] As for survival from 244 euros per month, this is certainly a challenge, if not an impossible challenge. I would add to this what I have said several times today; it is insurance when we are talking about the pension and the disability allowance. If someone finds himself in a situation where these funds obtained on the basis of either a disability pension or a pension are not sufficient or are too low and do not have any other resources or assets that he could help himself or his family, then another part of the social state is available to him, not only insurance, but general, and then he takes care of and looks at not only the individual but also his family. If this is some kind of cash social assistance in the first phase, it can be some kind of protective allowance, if there are family members there, say children, if they are younger, these are other types of assistance, from a child supplement, to various scholarships, to subsidised school meals, to other measures available here, and there are many. It is precisely because, despite the difficult situation in which the individual is, on the basis of the rights granted to him by that State, is somehow derived from day to day. Thus, it is not only when you mention this amount, but it is still necessary to take into account that the state does not stop but also provides other resources with which an individual can help himself in that situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Well, finally! Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, you have the floor. But get ready, Mojca Znidaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. There's been a lot of talk already, so maybe just for a little while. So we, by law, want to help these weakest, socially vulnerable disabled pensioners. We propose that this social, i.e. the lowest possible pension for the disabled be 392, that is to say the amount of the minimum income as laid down in the Social Benefit Act. If the state said that it was some minimum that anyone could survive with, then every man should have at least that much in this country. Whether people can survive with this or not, we can ask ourselves. See, we're talking about disabled people, about those who would, in their opinion, the government says that our pension system is based on contributions made during the active period. [[…]] That is true, but we pay a lot of pensions in this country that are not linked to the contributions paid. Here, where someone actually paid and would probably still pay if they did not become disabled, most of the time these people became disabled because of work — not all of them, whether there are accidents or anything — but we have a lot of disability due to the consequences of years of work, the wrong attitude, and so on. These people, as my colleague Ange said, would like to move on, but of course they can't, because they've become disabled. It is very sad that although they were active, they had to go to Karitas to get food packages and so on. Very humiliating for people. Perhaps just for the end, Mr Christmas, you said you wanted cooperation and that you would also come to our Group of Members. We regret that you have not come to this marriage, but perhaps we could discuss whether things can be done differently if you think that at this point or if you can add anything to any amendments if you feel that the law is inappropriate. But so we always witness that everything we suggest is bad and immediately in the first reading is rejected, it doesn't even come to So, we talk here, but we don't hear from each other, instead of taking the time and actually on the committees things to redevelop where maybe we all have a little more data. [[…]] Sometimes we do come up with some data that is not the most accurate, although we usually try to obtain data from the government by means of parliamentary questions. So, there is a law before us that saves something, but of course, because it has not been filed by the coalition or by the super-party Left, but by us, of course, it will be rejected today and we will stop talking about it. Yesterday we listened to how guilty we were of the situation in the country. It's either someone's fault or it's someone's fault. We wanted to fix something, and you don't want it, so then I ask that you not explain to us that we are guilty of something happening in the country. If you detect an anomaly, if you see that something is wrong, it is our job to try to correct it, and with our suggestions we do so; you reject them all in turn. I wish that once in the Slovenian Parliament we would achieve a similar decision-making method, as in the European Parliament, when things coordinate so much that there are virtually no votes but try to agree and find the best solution. But there comes from one basic assumption that the socialists know something and that the EPP knows something, not all knowledge in one party, or in one coalition, or in the government coalition, or on the opposition side, but everyone knows something and together we can get the best solutions. I hope that there will ever be such a case, that we will not be able to say again after four years of the mandate or after three years of the mandate that no opposition proposal has ever been adopted. And we support your suggestions, because you've probably noticed that. What we consider to be good, we support. Where we think that some things are wrong, we also say why we think they are wrong, and we expect some confrontation of arguments to come together to the best solutions. Of course, I will support the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Furthermore, I wish that cooperation would also be real, not just talking about how we want to work together when we need to work together, but that will not happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. How should the proposal of this law be commented on by someone who has been engaged in the employment of disabled persons for more than a decade? Someone who knows most of the shortcomings of pension and disability insurance, including traps of high, higher and lower wages. Someone who promised people that he would fight to improve these rights and fight all the time. Today I would very much like to be able to support this law, but I cannot support it for a number of reasons, which I will also mention below. Only one article of this legislation has been opened by the proposers. Anomalies, injustices, inequalities in pension and disability legislation are very large. Every change, when we adopt any law, we always weigh and we must be careful not to make new injustices, that the law is just, equal, equal to all. As has been said many times today, the pension system is an insurance system. In the first place, the insurance system, otherwise it is solidarity, but it is insurance, we have it, and so is the fact. With such a balance sheet, which would be determined by the amount of this amount, where most disabled pensioners would then receive approximately the same amount, as has already been pointed out several times today, they would indeed break all pensioners' ratios, including the ratios to old pensioners. It was exposed, and I have repeatedly asked myself, ‘ Is it really man’s fault to get sick quickly? ’ Of course not, and of course he wants to work longer. But here, in these cases, solidarity will also take place in our legislation, and in these cases, the invalidity pension will also be accounted for on the basis of the age added. A fictitious age is included, so it is a period of up to 60, or 65, when a person can still work. So in these cases our system is also solidarity. If I could personally agree with the first paragraph of the proposed article, however, I cannot agree with the second paragraph of this article, which is completely inappropriate, inconsistent and does not in fact distinguish disabled pensioners from disabled persons who receive disability benefits — that is to say, they are still partially capable. Thus, you are also requesting the application of disabled pensioners, you are requesting an application from the Employment Service, to the employment prospectors' records. As it is said, disabled pensioners do not have the remaining working capacity, they are retired, so they have the first category and are no longer looking for employment, they do not register, no record of the Employment Service. However, if you were thinking of the recipients of the cash refund, then it would be necessary if they were already to register with the unemployed. For every student, even a student, who is employed, can enter the job searcher's register. In fact, this record does not offer them anything other than information on job vacancies. These people must need a lot more. In addition to motivation, active employment policy measures, which are also not offered to people who are registered in employment searchers' records, a huge amount of advice and also representation with employers. If the recipients of the third category are considered to be recipients, then certainly an application to the unemployment records and not to the employment prospectors' records. Already the aim of the changes to PIZ-1, i.e. in 2002, was the activation of disabled people. It is not the intention of anyone to be at home passive, even to have a higher compensation, but to be included in society to be useful. That is why it has also gone this way to reward the disabled who are employed. Any disabled person who is employed in another suitable job will then receive 35% of the reward or 35% of the disability compensation that he or she is entitled to when he or she is unemployed; and that is not a small amount. Given that we already lack workers in the labour market, I see even more opportunities here than the disabled have so far, so that they can become even more active and find suitable employment, so appropriate to their limitations. Many mention is made of how to live with 244 euros, or 250 euros, or 270, 280 you refer to socially endangered people. [[…]] So no one has to live with it, because social assistance is not intended only for those who are unemployed or unemployed, but can be used by all. These disabled workers can also benefit from social assistance. However, if they have the first category, so that they are not able to work, they may also benefit from a protective supplement. The protective supplement was up to 1. 1. 2012 already part of pension legislation. At the time, you excluded it, and the reason why you were reading it a little back was to clean up the pension registers of all these benefits, for which no contributions were paid, and this was a family or state pension and a security allowance. The security allowance had already been allocated to those with lower incomes and therefore lower assets. At that time, people had to send these evidences to the STIZ, but now they're applying it to the Social Work Center. In fact, there is no other big difference. So, even then, this income and property censorship was being enforced. However, it has also been regulated in the previous government that this security allowance, which has been entered into or recorded during the previous years, has now been abolished and is in fact terminated for people with up to €120,000 of assets there is no problem in not getting this protective allowance and will not be booked anywhere. Now I am going to point out what kills me most and see me as the greatest injustice or inequality in this pension-disability legislation, and I have put it on the boards several times. This is because it differs between people who go to a disability committee and are employed on the day of the disability commission, i.e. they are pension insured, and those who are not insured on the day of the disability commission are said to be unemployed, without a financial compensation. I have already pointed this out, and even if these two people have exactly the same working age, they have a recognised remuneration of various percentages, i.e. the unemployment allowance is even 20% lower. Such a person receives a compensation of 40% of the envisaged disability pension. I think that this is where the biggest key is, and this way it can be systematically solved, that this anomaly is eliminated, and that it is removed, not just for the next time. Because no one could ever tell me here, or if I called the PIZ or anywhere else, no one could ever tell me why there is this inequality in the legislation, why it separates from the same health restrictions, at the same working age, why it separates people from those who are unemployed or employed on the day of the disability commission. Here I see, I have raised this issue several times, and I will do it again if I have to, but I do see here what can be done to make this system more just and even more equitable. So please, I would also like to ask this part of the response from the Ministry and the Secretary of State whether this matter has already been studied and whether it can now be included in this first amendment of pension legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Mr. Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I would have responded to what was said in the end. What you're pointing to has been identified. Our assessment is that in the package of the following changes – of course, if we are able to reconcile this with the social partners – it would make sense to address and resolve it. As far as this initiative is concerned, I can say this right now and we will also inform you about how things are developing. The second is as far as the final work is concerned. As it is said, the Government has said in its opinion that it does not support this proposal. One of the reasons for this is in the core how the system is designed, why it works, and how it is set up to draw rights from this system. Thus, certain relationships have been established, they are based on the basic insurance principle, they are also complemented to a certain extent by the principle of solidarity, and this is particularly the case when we are talking about invalidity pensions and also disability benefits. In this way, it improves slightly or increases the amount that someone can receive compared to someone who would possibly exercise the right from an old-age pension. It is true, however, that not only this system but also the other systems – that is to say, other transfers aimed at ensuring social security – should then be viewed here, because a person in a difficult situation can come to the rescue. Among these available options, the protection allowance, which is intended in principle, as well as some other rights, has been mentioned several times today. As far as future regulation is concerned, the government has already drawn up the baselines with which the coalition agreed and sent them to the Economic and Social Council. As I have already mentioned, a negotiating group has been established which has a plan to deal with this subject in the coming months and to reach agreement at the end. The starting points are somewhat broader; it is said that we are not just talking about invalidity pensions or allowances, we are also talking about raising dose percentages in all other cases, family, widow's, even the lowest pensions and so on. Thus, we have actually prepared that proposal in a way that touches everyone and respects the relations that are within the system, that remains still in a certain way depending on how much time someone has paid and how much they have actually paid into this system. Because, as I said, it's insurance. It is about securing some income, which then, if someone who is older can no longer do the work or for other reasons can no longer do it, it will then be exhausted from this system, in addition to, of course, other systems that are still available. The government has also assessed the consequences. Contrary to the applicant, we have found that the financial implications are slightly higher, estimated at around €33 million. As it is said, the Government does not support the proposal, but it already has its solutions, which are now in the negotiating phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I see one hand, so we won't even go to time-sharing. Soldier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I will not be long, but I think it was clear from the State Secretary's explanation that we have a great opportunity to do so. Otherwise, according to our concepts, our beliefs, in my own opinion, these additions to the PIZ are relatively late coming into our Parliament. But until now, it is still a short time, because we have before us the Economic and Social Council, this coordination, and that we are doing things in the right way. We have different opinions and different views. But the obvious fact that in this new reference we are hardhearted and nothing at all, but I feel little pain because some are already in the fifth term and in the past nothing has been better than it is now. So let's wait for this good month and go in a coordinated and consistent manner and correct these injustices and I'm up for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. If the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, at 2 p.m. and 10 minutes, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the sixth session of the assembly, which we shall continue by voting, as I said, at 2 p.m. and 10 minutes. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 13.41 and resumed at 14.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u98	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 2, 9 and 10 of the agenda. This brings us to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Firearms Act by a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, chairman. We'll support this marriage in the left hand side. During the last month, we were able to read in public, as well as about today's debate, the links to the starting points of the government's pension reform. This pension reform goes in part, in particular in the part of raising the dose rate, in the right direction, and in the part of extending working time, it goes in the wrong direction. At the same time, there was no mention of any increase in minimum pensions, either an absolute increase in the minimum pension or an increase in full-life pensions. Today we have a proposal from the SDS, which, at least for the area of invalidity pensions, raises the amount received by beneficiaries. This is a good solution, but it is also a partial solution. Therefore, with the support of this law, as long as today's vote in the National Assembly is suspended, in the second reading, we are predicting that amendments will be made, which will be the lowest pension in this country – not only for the full time, but for everyone and for everyone – to put at least the short-term minimum cost of living at EUR 442. Slovenian society is a rich enough society, the people of our country are diligent, hardworking and deserve to go into the autumn of their lives with a decent pension. In short-term measures, this means EUR 442 for an absolute minimum pension and at least EUR 613 for a full-time minimum pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you for presenting your point of view. This brings us to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 10. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are considering a motion for a decision on the discharge of the President of the State Election Commission. On the basis of Article 36, Article 112 and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee of Procedure submitted to the assembly for its consideration. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Ivan Hršk, President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 7th meeting, on 28 February 2019 and 8th session, on 21 March 2019, the Commission decided on the text of the draft decision on the discharge of the President of the State Election Commission. The proposal laid down by Article 32, paragraph 5, of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which provides that the National Assembly shall, before the expiry of the period for which it has been appointed, dismiss the President, the Vice-President of a Member or a Deputy Member, if so requested, if the election right has ceased or has ceased to serve as a judicial service. It follows from the decision of the Court of Justice that, on 31 December 2018, Anton Gasper, the Supreme Judge, the Councillor of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, had ceased his judicial service for a reason under the second paragraph of Article 74 of the Judicial Service Act and had not ceased his judicial function. The fifth paragraph of Article 32 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly clearly states that the reason for the dismissal is related to the termination of the judicial service and not to the termination of the judicial function. In accordance with Article 76a, fourth and fifth paragraphs, of the Judicial Service Act, a judge who has obtained the right to a pension may, irrespective of his age and the provision of Article 74, second paragraph, of this Act, carry out certain tax duties and, among other things, shall not act as President of the State Election Commission after his retirement. The work of the President of the National Election Commission is also not comparable to that of the judge under Article 76a, but is comparable to that of the highest court. That is why the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in the third paragraph of Article 32 provides for the appointment of a judge in a judicial capacity in the Supreme Court. However, the legal conditions for the discharge referred to in Article 32, paragraph 5, of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly reflect the legal conditions for appointment in the State Election Commission, which is in accordance with the principle in both the legal doctrine and the legislation in force, that the officers of a particular body have to fulfil the legal conditions for appointment throughout the term of their term of office. This is also followed by the past parliamentary practice of appointing and dismissing the Presidents of the State Election Commission and their deputies. Prior to the entry into force of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly-C, the suspension of the judicial service was considered a reason for the discharge because the person did not fulfil the formal conditions for appointment, which the legislator also took into account when adopting that amendment, by explicitly regulating the reasons for the discharge. The Law on Elections in the National Assembly-C adopted, by virtue of the provision of paragraph 5 of Article 32, in practice until then, the existing interpretation and method of implementation of the law and therefore it is not a matter of a new or amended regulation of the grounds for discharge. The provision of Article 32, paragraph 5, of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which provides a legal basis for early resolution, was established during the four-year term of the current President, Anton Gasper, but has no retroactive effect. Early discharge, taking into account the wide-ranging administrative and judicial practice of the Supreme Court, does not prejudice its rights and legal benefits. If the legislator wished that the legal standard of discharge did not apply to the President, the members and their alternates whose mandate was in progress, he should explicitly regulate it in a transitional provision, which he did not do. Taking into account that point 1 of the sentence of the draft decision, it is based on the finding that the President of the State Election Commission has received the reason set out in Article 32, paragraph 5, of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly for Early Resolution. The second point of the sentence of the draft decision is based on Article 35, paragraph 1, of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which provides that, if members of the electoral committees cease their term at the time of the call for elections, their term of office shall be extended until the end of the elections. Since the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament has been called, the term of office of the President of the State Commission, which gave rise to the reason set out in Article 32, paragraph 5, of the Law on Elections to the Pre-Trial Assembly, should be extended until the end of the elections. This ensures the smooth and continuous exercise of all powers of the State Election Commission until the end of the elections. The term of office of the President of the National Election Commission shall therefore be extended until the President of the National Assembly has been notified to the President of the European Parliament of the outcome of the elections as a formal conclusion of the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-28-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to dismiss President Anton Gasper Frantar in the National Elections Commission, extending his mandate and acting as President of the State Election Commission until the President of the National Assembly has been notified to the President of the European Parliament of the outcome of the elections to the European Parliament by a decision on the call for elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present and 74 Members and Members voted yes. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the decision has been adopted. We turn to the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the mandate of the Member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. Ms Vesna Ugrinovski presented to the National Assembly a statement of resignation from the seat of the members of the Programme Council Radiotelevision Slovenia. On the basis of the above, the Commission submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision proposing to it that, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 4, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and Article 112, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision should be taken: Ms Vesna Ugrinovski should be found to have made a withdrawal from the seat of the Member of the Programme Council of Radio Television of Slovenia and therefore, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 4, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, shall terminate the mandate of the Member of the Programme Council of Radio Television of Slovenia, appointed on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 6, or, of the Sixth indent, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. I take it the National Assembly has been informed of the decision. We are now moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions in the Children's Cardiology Programme and the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The panellists are not present, and therefore, with respect and respect, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, the members and alternate members of that investigative commission. We're voting. 74 Members and Members were present and 74 voted yes. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 6th meeting of the National Assembly.
