ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Edward Paulic from 3 p.m. on, Violeta Tomić, Janja Servant from 15.30 p.m., Felice Žiža, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, Marko Koprivc from 12 p.m. on, Aljaž Kovacič from 11 p.m. on and Andrej Reich. Once again, I politely welcome all those present! Dear Members, we are moving on to 4. On the basis of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the summary procedure, this is a preliminary proposal for a law amending the law on the regulation of certain questions for the purpose of the final judgment of the Arbitral Court. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I invite Mr Stojan Tramtet, Secretary-General, to give us a position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u2	Nice hello to you all! The Act on the regulation of certain matters for the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted with the aim of declaring the final judgment in arbitration between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia concerning the establishment of a border on land and sea between the national authorities of the maintenance of certain rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and establishing certain new rights. The objective of the ZUVRAS is to implement the principle of equal treatment of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia whose rights and obligations have been affected by a judgment by retaining, to the greatest extent possible, the rights enjoyed by them to the declaration of a verdict and the rights for which they are deprived of the right to an adequate compensation. ZUVRAS became applicable when the national border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia was recorded on the basis of the judgment in the State border register, 30 December 2017. The group of citizens whose rights and obligations have been affected by the judgment are also the holders of the marketing authorisation. In view of the fact that marketing authorisation holders may, in carrying out their activities from foreign vessels, suffer damage to the fishing gear or fishing vessel in the sea of the Republic of Slovenia, ZUVRAS has provided that operators of the fishing authorisation are allowed to benefit in this case from compensation in the amount of damage. As a result of the possibility of foreign vessels present in the sea of the Republic of Slovenia that would impede the regular economic fishing of Slovenian fishermen, they may suffer the loss of regular income. ZUVRAS provided that, in the event of compliance with the conditions laid down, the marketing authorisation holders were entitled to compensation for the loss of income. ZUVRAS has set a two-year period from the entry into force of the law in which holders of fishing licences are entitled to compensation in the amount of damage caused by damage to fishing gears or fishing vessels from foreign vessels and compensation for loss of income, i.e. until 30 December 2019. The proposed amendments to the law extend the period of application of ZUVRAS in the work governing refunds on holders and marketing authorisations by two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary General, for presenting the Government's position. The home working body is the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. I ask the President, Mr Zvonk Černač, to present the report. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u4	Nice greetings to everyone from my side, especially to young visitors from Ptuj! At its 10th meeting, on 11 September this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the draft law amending the Law on the regulation of certain issues for the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. One amendment was tabled within the deadline of business, namely the Slovenian National Party's Emissary Group, which was not formally appropriate and was therefore not voted on by the Committee. The coalition's parliamentary groups have tabled amendments that have been considered and adopted as amendments to the Committee. The representative of the proposer, the Secretary-General of the Government, gave an additional explanation of the law. The novelty shall extend for two years the period during which the holders of fishing authorisations are entitled to compensation in the amount of damage caused as a result of damage to fishing gears or fishing vessels from foreign vessels and compensation for loss of income. In addition, the representative of the proposed State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food stated in a supplementary explanation that the compensation for damage caused by fishing gear or fishing vessel in the sea of the Republic of Slovenia or due to obstacles to economic fishing is tied to a vessel and not to a fisherman. The bill retains the current regulation by binding the refund on the minimum number of logbooks. He pointed out that after the new eight additional vessels eligible for compensation, five would lose that right because they did not have sufficient logbooks. It also identified proposals for amendments to the Committee and concluded that funds for the implementation of the draft law were provided. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation supported the proposal for a law. In the debate, the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group announced support for the amendment of the law and support for the amendments tabled, but considered that the two-year extension approach was not appropriate, as these provisions should be linked to the final settlement of the border issue between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, otherwise we will be witnessing a re-examination of the law due to the extension of the deadline. He also raised the issue of fines unjustifiably given to Slovenian fishermen by the Republic of Croatia and asked questions about the assistance and protection of Slovenian fishermen against unjustifiable interference by Croatian authorities. The representative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group did not object to the extension of the period for receiving compensation for damage and lost income to Slovenian fishermen, but criticized the work of individuals and authorities in relation to arbitration and proposed maritime border insurance. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food responded to questions raised and dilemmas raised. They pointed out that the number of injuries committed by the law was small on Slovenian fishermen's vessels and that, as a result, the damage was low. However, significant damage is caused by the loss of income due to the disruption of fishing, especially in the penalisation of Slovenian fishermen, where 513 procedures against Slovenian fishermen have been introduced by the police of the Republic of Croatia, and fines of 311 000 euros have been imposed on them. In addition, 240 procedures were introduced by Croatian inspection and fines and costs for Slovenian fishermen amounting to approximately EUR 421 000. On the other hand, 123 payment orders were issued by the Slovenian Inspectorate for Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries to Croatian fishermen, with 78 fines totalling €173,000. After discussion, the Committee voted on the amendments tabled and all the articles of the bill and adopted them by 11 votes to none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting your position. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Igor Peček, Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! The Act currently in force was adopted by the National Assembly following the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal on the passage of land and sea borders between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. After 30 December 2017, it entered into force when the border between countries was included in the national border register of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite Croatia's refusal to accede to the implementation of the arbitration ruling, Slovenia is implementing all necessary measures to implement the said ruling. This law, which is being amended in one part today, is an intervention law and was one of the four laws that we have adopted in our country for the successful implementation of the arbitration ruling. Implementation, however, is a relatively complex process where prior solutions become reality. In this context, it has now been shown that it is necessary to adjust the time frame within which compensation for damage caused is to be paid from the current two to four years from the date of application of the law. It is also known that, notwithstanding the finding of the arbitral tribunal, the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the judgment. The Republic of Slovenia therefore brought an action against the Republic of Croatia before the Court of Justice of the European Union in July 2018. The conclusions of the Court of Justice of the European Union will be presented in November 2019. The current law provides, however, for financial refunds to which operators of economic fishing at sea within the territorial borders of the Republic of Slovenia are entitled within the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, provided that foreign vessels cause material damage on Slovenian vessels and fishing gears or that Slovenian operators suffer economic damage and loss of income due to the economic fishing of foreign operators. However, Slovenian operators are entitled to compensation for damage caused only over a period of two years. As it is said that the actual and legal situation would be regulated and adapted to the implementation of the arbitral decision, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the proposed amendment of the law, proposes an extension of the time-frame within which compensation for the damage caused is charged. We believe that the proposed amendment follows the objective of providing financial compensation for any material or economic damage to affected fishermen, so we will of course support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Mr Bojana Muršič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Let me just say in the introduction that Members and Members of the Social Democrats on the Committee will be complemented by a proposal for the amendment of the Law on the regulation of certain issues in view of the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal on the basis of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments to the Law continue to follow the principle of the greatest benefit of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia whose rights and obligations have changed against their will or have been harmed as a result. The proposed amendment extends the right to compensation for fisheries for two years. The holders of fishing licences will be entitled to compensation for material damage to the fishing gear or vessel for the next two years, as well as for the purpose of obstructed economic fishing. The proposed extension of the remuneration also amends the rules on the basis of which entitlement to compensation will be determined. The number of logbooks required for each year increases to 76. The Government's assessment is that up to eight new vessels will be eligible for compensation. This is mainly the case for vessels which have become more active in the last period, and this is therefore an increase in economic fishing. In the meantime, it must also be said that five vessels will lose their right to compensation because they have not been active for the last two years. As I have already said in the introduction, the Social Democrats will be supported by the technical law, which has been further improved by the adoption of the amendment on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Mr Gregor Perič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! Today we are considering a novelty of the so-called intervention law adopted by the previous one, Cerarjevo, the government has designed to facilitate the implementation of the arbitration ruling with a view to resolving individual issues in the light of the verdict. Its purpose is to preserve the rights and obligations that individuals had on the day of the judgment of the arbitral tribunal in the Slovenian territory, which has become part of the territory of Croatia following its judgment. While the intervention law is part of the four laws adopted for the implementation of the arbitration ruling, in November 2017 a law on the recording of the state border, on the land book and on maritime fishing was also adopted. The purpose of the proposal for amendments to the law is to extend the right to compensation for holders of economic fishing licences, which has been limited in accordance with the law to two years, i.e. until the end of this year, for a further two years. It is a compensation for material damage to the fishing gear or vessel and for the economic fishing in the sea, which is under the sovereignty of Slovenia. Why an extension for the next two years? Since it has already been two years since June this year, the arbitral tribunal has declared a ruling on the border between Slovenia and Croatia, and the measures in question expire at the end of this year. While Slovenia stresses, on the one hand, that the verdict represents a definitive solution to the border issue, Croatia still does not recognise it. Meanwhile, in connection with the ruling, proceedings are also pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, and an oral hearing has already taken place at the Court of Justice on the admissibility of Slovenia's action against Croatia precisely because of violations of the European legal order as a result of non-compliance with the arbitration ruling on the border between countries. The EU Court of Justice will first decide on the admissibility of the action, and then, if declared competent, a substantive hearing on Slovenia's claims will follow. This means, in particular, that the implementation of the arbitration ruling is still a long way to go and that the extension of that measure makes sense. It is particularly relevant because of the presence of Croatian vessels, fishermen in the sea of the Republic of Slovenia and the consequent disruption of the economic fishing of Slovenian fishermen. In this regard, we would also like to point out in the SMC the incidents in the Slovenian Sea, which we believe are also encouraged by the patronage of Croatian politics. Even this January, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic claimed to Croatian fishermen that they would not pay the fines they would receive from Slovenia for violating the border. In March this year, a larger Croatian police boat sailed 2.5 kilometres deep into the Slovenian sea and even 1.3 kilometres across the middle line in the Piran Bay, which is the middle line, in June, the Croatian fishing boat in the waters of the Piranski Bay ripped the fishing nets of Pirana and could still be listed. To encourage incidents, data from the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for agriculture, forestry, fisheries and fisheries, which has so far detected a thousand 408 cases of violations, while half the procedures have been introduced against Slovenian fishermen, around 750 on the Croatian side. It is also worth mentioning that the Croatian authorities have issued around EUR 700 000 fines and that Slovenia has less than 200 000 fines. Croatia has therefore even adjusted the amount of fines or the Croatian authorities are imposing the highest fines for such offences. In the SMC, we regret the behaviour of our neighbours as damage occurs on both sides of the border and relations between countries are at the lowest level. This is precisely why we will support the amendment of the law because it establishes suitable compensations and prolongs the period of their receipt, which is in the interests of fishermen as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Natasa Sukić, on behalf of the Ambassador of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honor! The law that we are considering today shows the inability of Slovenian policy to settle a border issue on the basis of an arbitral tribunal ruling with the Republic of Croatia. All the Government does with the proposal of the law is to extend the period during which operators of the fishing authorisation may apply compensation for material damage to the fishing gear or vessel. The original law on the regulation of certain matters for the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal under the Arbitration Agreement provided for a two-year period during which such damage could be imposed. This period is now extended by two additional years. And given the way things are going, we can assume that this period will be extended again in two years, and then again and again. Today's consideration of the bill is proof that Slovenia and Croatia, a country that is supposed to be a model for the Western Balkans, are in fact not yet mature to use modern tools of international law – arbitration. In both countries, arbitration is always an eminent internal policy issue and politics is fragmented. Thus, the issue of the border with Croatia has become the axis of our foreign policy due to its emotional components. The Gulf of Piran and its disputes are a classic example of selling nationalist fog that distracts attention from the burning problems of economic and social policies. It must be realized that there are fishermen, workers and workers on both sides of the border, people who only want to live decently in peace and from their work. The sea and the coast are public good, which we could and should manage together. It should also be noted that the collateral damage to the conflict with Croatia far exceeds the risk posed by arbitration. At least since the collapse of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, the decision for arbitration has been the only realistic solution to the border issue. The inability of our foreign policy to resolve the conflict with Croatia in a patient dialogue continues to corrupt our economic relations, poisons our internal political scene, regulates populism and ignites nationalism. For instance, Croatia, a natural ally against Italian renaissance, in history turns our only friendly neighbour into a rival and makes our situation worse in the region. It is serious to ask why the French President and the German Chancellor meet at bilateral talks eight times a year. How many times have the previous and current prime ministers met with the Croatian Prime Minister in the last three years? It is worth asking how long until we play this arbitration roulette as a zero-sum game, as defined by Denko Maleski, Macedonia's first foreign minister in the government of Kira Gligorova, a game where the logic of the Cold War and the thought of winning can only be achieved at the expense of the defeats of other countries. In this dispute over the border between the countries for complete absurdity, Frenchman Gilbert Guillaume commented eloquently on the role of the President of the Arbitration Court, which solved the dispute in which Slovenia and Croatia disputed about the peeing 115 square kilometres of saltwater, which is of particular symbolic importance for Slovenia and in fact no impact on fishing or maritime transport. They are also waiting for a land near the Bay of Piran, where only mosquitoes and frogs live, as Guillaume illustrated. We are aware of the need to help people in the changed situation as a result of the verdict, so we will not oppose extending the period during which damage to our fishermen's vessels and fishing gears may occur. We note, however, that the mere extension of deadlines while the unresolved border issue with Croatia remains no solution and that, in addition to serving the institutions of international law with Croatia, it will be necessary to sit down at the common table sooner or later and begin to talk. The blind insistence of one country and another in its own unfortunately does not lead anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr. Marko Bandelli, I read it too quickly. [[…]] Mr Blaž Pavlin, I sincerely apologize. Mr Blaž Pavlin, New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. I don't know if I should reward you with an extra five minutes if you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you, President, for your word. Hello, everyone! In 2017, the current law laid down, inter alia, that the marketing authorisation holders have the right to compensation for damage to their vessel or fishing gear in the event of damage caused to them and to compensation for the loss of income due to the disruption of regular economic fishing. The law fixed a period of two years at the time of its entry into force, i.e. up to 30 years. This year's 12th. Further ensure payment of compensation to operators for economic fishing licences for damage caused to the vessel and for loss of income only if the proposed amendment to the law is adopted, which shall extend the period for the application of this refund by two years. The reason for the extension is the fact that Croatian fishing vessels continue to sail many times to the sea of the Republic of Slovenia, but do not carry out fishing in accordance with Slovenian legislation. In Novi Slovenije, when this law was adopted in 2017, we stressed that Slovenia must do everything necessary to implement it after the arbitration ruling has been adopted, including amending legislation where necessary. The law, which we supported at the time, allows our citizens, who remain in territory that is no longer Slovenian, to retain all rights if that is what they want. In doing so, we have warned that we will have to resolve specific issues directly on the ground and that the Government must endeavour to adopt an interstate agreement with Croatia as soon as possible, because without this we will not be able to proceed with the final execution procedures. Given that these procedures are in place, there is a question of the purpose of extending the deadline. This is not a solution to the problem, but simply to remedy the consequences of the illegal behaviour of Croatian fishermen. It means additional financial burden on the budget, which can last for more than two years. We should also look at the problem from the other side and ask what Slovenia should or should do to prevent the illegal conduct of our neighbours. Despite all our concerns, we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And once again, an apology. Now, Mr Marko Bandelli, Party of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to us for consideration a proposal for a law amending the law governing a certain issue concerning the arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia. The basic purpose of the law is equal treatment of those citizens whose rights and obligations were affected by the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. With these amendments, the applicant wishes to preserve the rights enjoyed by these citizens until 29 June 2017 when the final judgment was announced. The proposal introduces two minor amendments which only concern supplementing the Articles with regard to the rights of holders of marketing authorisations. The proposal extends for an additional two years the period during which Slovenian fishermen or marketing authorisation holders are entitled to compensation. This is a compensation in the amount of damage caused by damage to fishing gears or fishing vessels. The government states that foreign vessels in the Slovenian Sea are still present despite the verdict, which hinders Slovenian fishermen from carrying out economic fishing activities. Also, Croatian vessels are still not fishing in accordance with the legislation, so that their income may potentially fall. The law therefore provides for the right to compensation for the loss of this income. The main purpose of the statutory compensation is therefore to carry out the activities of fishermen without hindrance. In the SAB Group, we estimate that State aid is of great importance to people directly affected by the arbitral ruling. However, we would like the unresolved issues between Slovenia and Croatia to be resolved as soon as possible and that respect for the arbitral ruling would be mutually binding on both sides. Our citizens simply cannot be deprived of their rights because of their failure to respect the ruling of the Republic of Croatia, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u18	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The law of unusually long name entered into force on 30 December 2017. Today's proposed amendments extend the period of application of the law for a further two years. The main reason for the extension is that Croatian fishing vessels do not fish in accordance with the legislation in force in the Republic of Slovenia. Operators of an economic fishing authorisation may therefore, in the exercise of their activities, suffer damage from foreign vessels on the fishing gear and on a fishing vessel or, as a result, may suffer the loss of regular income and are therefore entitled to compensation for the loss of regular income. We are therefore regulating the payment of refunds for 2020 and 2021. It is quite likely that we will have to do so in the future for years to come. This is a total of 71 fishing vessels of a total length of 540 metres, the average length of the vessel of 7.60 metres. This is also an extremely sad information about the potential and perspective of the Slovenian economic fisheries sector. The most important thing about changes in the law is, of course, financial value. The amount of the refunds in 2020 and 2021 and the amount of the refunds to be paid in 2022 for the damage done in the second half or towards the end of 2021 are foreseen. In total, EUR 560 000 will be provided under the financial plans of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in those budgetary years. This is also the most important information for Members of the Desus Group. It is said that money to cover the damage is provided in the coming years, so in the Desus Group we will be supporting the law on amendments to the Act on the regulation of certain issues due to the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal on the basis of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u20	Dear President, all present! The new law that we have before us on the table allows operators to extend the fishing authorisation from two to four years because they are entitled to compensation in the amount of damage caused under de minimis aid in fisheries. Two years ago, by adopting the law, his purpose was to facilitate life along the borders of living people. Let us not forget that the verdict hurt them so that they would no longer have the rights they had before. That is, in our view, a complete nonsense. If, in our country of the Republic of Slovenia, we had organs such as this, from the Ministry to certain representatives before the judgment, we would not even have this initial state of affairs in order to adopt the law by which the verdict is rectified. It is evident that the human factor on the entire line has been overshadowed, since many ignorant individuals feel that bad activity can be remedied by the adoption of a marriage, but that is not the case. Shame on us. Are you aware that this is our Slovenian national problem, the break and so on? As you know, Croatian fishing vessels accompanied by Croatian police vessels during the period from the beginning of the implementation of the law have often entered the sea of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not the correct formulation. But don't tell me how many times it's been. The fact is that Croatian fishing vessels do not fish in accordance with the law applicable in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and can therefore easily damage the fishing gears of Slovenian fishermen. It may also be an obstacle to their regular fishing. I am very interested in the specific reasons why Croatian fishermen do not comply with our laws and what sanctions or penalties are imposed on offenders. It is necessary to hit the table strongly, protect the sea under the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and not allow anyone to treat us as slaves. Our Slovenian proverb says nicely: The donkey only goes on ice once. However, it is clear that our great people are always going on very thin ice to embarrass our country in front of Croatia and to bow down to it for long and long. It's a shame we don't have nationality and not statehood. It is indeed sad that the assessment of the financial consequences of the loss of fishing income in 2021 is even increased at the expense of Croatian neighbours. Instead of acting on the principle of the greatest benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we obviously act on the opposite side, because we are giving more and more generously, as far as the Croats want. It's all a disaster. We will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group and we may discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As last of all, you have the word Mr Zvonko Černač on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! As I have already said in the Committee's position, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we support this amendment of the law, but we believe that it would be more appropriate that the novelties be linked to the final determination of the border between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and not just for two years, as the committee's proposal itself announced – a possible novelty after two years. This indicates that the Government does not consider that the questions of the border between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia would be resolved in real terms in this mandate. The second question is why these complications arise, or why this law is necessary, and this extension, which, as I said, we support, is absolutely necessary. Two years ago, September 2017, after the decision on arbitration on the border with the Republic of Croatia was known, these complications began in the Gulf of Piran. They began on the basis of the strong statements made by the then Prime Minister of the Government of Mir Cerar, who is today an external minister, and on the basis of the strong statements made by Mr Karl Erjavac, the then Foreign Minister. We have heard words that Slovenian fishermen will be provided with a police escort, in short, Miro Cerar as then Prime Minister of the Government and Karl Erjavec as then foreign minister, starting to show the muscles of the Republic of Croatia on the shoulders of Slovenian fishermen, and the consequences are here today. The consequences are here today. The Slovenian police have begun to impose penalties in the form of reminders to Croatian fishermen who have crossed the border at sea established by the arbitral tribunal, the Republic of Croatia has responded immediately and has begun to impose penalties on Slovenian fishermen who have complied with the provisions of the Arbitration Agreement. At that time, Prime Minister Miro Cerar said that Slovenian police have been monitoring the entire Slovenian sea since the announcement of the arbitral decision, thus controlling the Piran Bay to the border determined by the arbitral tribunal. It's a lie. A lie, then and today. Otherwise, the complications we are talking about today would not be. So below the line, the state in which we were drawn by Slovenian fishermen today and where they were the shortest, was cooked by Cerar's government, Miro Cerar, as the then prime minister, and this situation is unfortunately still going on today. Who's ahead after two years? Over €700,000 fines made by Croatian authorities and $170,000 by Croatian fishermen, expressed by Slovenian authorities. So, the advantages are in the Republic of Croatia, our fishermen are significantly more damaged. It is true that a regulation has been adopted offering legal aid to Slovenian fishermen, but this story will eventually end. What will happen when these applications are changed to prison sentences and when Slovenian fishermen are no longer able to cross the Slovenian-Croatian border? We have not received any answers to these questions in response from the competent authorities. We have not received any answers and it is high time that Slovenian policy ceases to be so irresponsible as to treat its own citizens. Unfortunately, we have the same foreign minister as the Prime Minister who cooked this situation at the time, but no matter what, now the Prime Minister is someone else, his greatest responsibility is to end this vicious circle. Break it up! Slovenian policy and Croatian policy must sit at the common table and stop this sentence to Slovenian and Croatian fishermen because it is completely unproductive. The problem was artificially cooked, until 2017, until these strong statements by Mr Mir Cerar that the Slovenian police and the Slovenian state were monitoring the border to the limit set out in the arbitration agreement, there were no such problems. There were no such problems. It is very difficult to expect that those who have cooked the problem will also solve it, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe and expect that this game will end in punishing, that both sides will sit at the common table as soon as possible and that this problem will be resolved in the interests of both Slovenian and Croatian fishermen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. With this, honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 26 September 2019, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on autor and related rights after a reduced procedure. The law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Allow me some additional emphasis on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The draft law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the Directive on certain authorised uses of certain works and other subject-matter protected by copyright and related rights for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disabilities and amending the Directive on the coordination of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. This Directive also provides for the implementation of the Marrakesh Treaty on facilitating access to published works for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disorders. The aim of the Directive is to establish mandatory and uniform exceptions and restrictions on copyright and related rights in order to ensure easy access to published works for eligible persons, namely blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disabilities. Today, blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disabilities still face obstacles to access to books and other printed material protected by copyright and related rights. In view of the above, the need for measures to increase the availability of books and other printed material in the available formats has been demonstrated. We therefore define the rightful person, work for the rightful person and copy in an accessible format in the draft law. The new provisions will make it easier for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disabilities to access books and other printed works in accessible formats adapted to their needs. In the proposal for a law, the restrictions and exceptions set out for the benefit of blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disorders have also been envisaged, in due consideration, for the benefit of all persons with disabilities, irrespective of their form of disability. In doing so, we have made additional use of exclusively copyright and related rights, in which, in exceptional cases, it can only be invoked. We have assessed that this additional intervention in exclusive copyright and related rights is legitimate and proportionate due to the needs and interests of persons with disabilities whose rights are protected by Article 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Persons with disabilities are one of the most vulnerable groups of the population and because of their disability they are more difficult to educate and train for work, they are harder to obtain employment and thus they are more difficult to support, and they are also more difficult to integrate into society. The proposal will also set a limit and an exception to copyright in favour of persons with disabilities for the use of works in non-body form or public communication, which will make it easier for persons with disabilities to access published works. The proposed solution is also important for maintaining equal treatment of all persons with disabilities irrespective of their form of disability, both in terms of easier access to published works and in terms of easier education and training for work and more active participation in society. Ladies and gentlemen, with the last emphasis, we would like to ask you to support this law, so I propose that you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your presentation. The competent working body is the Committee on the Economy, I give the floor to Mr Gregor Peric, President of this Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. A nice greeting to the government representatives as well! The Committee on the Economy is at its 6th session. 9th of this year, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, was considered by the mother labour body. During the debate, we received amendments to the bill tabled by the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB, Desus to Articles 2, 3 and 4. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property and Legal Services participated in the meeting of the Committee. In an introductory presentation or supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, presented the main objectives and main solutions to the bill. The law is based on the directive and the main purpose of the directive is two. First time. The establishment of a mandatory and uniform exemption and restrictions on copyright and related rights in order to enable the production of copies in formats suitable for blind and visually impaired persons and for persons with other reading disorders. Another time. Arrangements for the exchange of such copies in the internal market, thus facilitating the access of eligible persons to published works. The legislative and legal service had no major comments or concerns. It highlighted in particular the weighting of the rights and obligations set out in Article 60 and in Article 52 of the Constitution. There were also no comments on the individual articles. The amendments tabled by the ZPS also adequately address the arguments. In general, support was expressed for the legal regulation of this area, which would improve the conditions of marginal social groups in other areas. While critics have expressed criticism at the expense of lack of consultation, the dilemma has also been raised regarding the implementation of the proposed solutions in practice, in particular as to whether a person is considered justified or not. The proposer was also asked whether financial losses in the economy could arise as a result of the implementation of the provisions of the proposal. All these questions have been clarified by the Ministry and the Office. The Committee then, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure, considered the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus to Articles 2, 3 and 4 and adopted them and then voted on the articles of the bill as a whole and adopted them also. The amendments are part of the text of the amended bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mrs Meira Hot, the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments and the addition of a bill on copyright and related rights is a result of the adoption of a European directive requiring States to provide blind and visually impaired persons and other persons with access to their copyrights in an accessible format. The problem faced by blind and visually impaired persons and persons with reading disabilities is that authors and right holders have the opportunity to prevent their work from being produced and adapted and to facilitate access to blind and visually impaired persons. This is how the European Directive tells countries to exercise this right of authors and publishers when it comes to the interests of blind and visually impaired persons. The Ministry of Economy has drawn up a proposal for an intervention into the law by clearly determining which sensory barriers can be encroached on the author's rights for the benefit of a blind and visually impaired person. At the hearing, some attention was drawn mainly to aligning this concept with the definition of disability, as is known by Slovenian legislation. The proposal aligns the provisions of the Directive with the existing rights of persons with disabilities in Slovenia, which are governed by the Article of the Law on Free Use. Social Democrats, of course, support the proposal, which guarantees the blind and visually impaired more rights to adapt the copyrights to their obstacles, but note that this area will still need to be monitored and, above all, the means by which the works concerned can be converted into a form suitable for the use of disabled persons. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I give my word to Mr Gregor Peric, the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. »The disabled is provided with protection and training for work in accordance with the law. Children with disabilities in physical or mental development and other severely affected persons have the right to education and training for active life in society. The education and training referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be financed from public funds.” This was a citation of Article 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia entitled Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, improves the conditions for acquiring knowledge of persons with disabilities and allows equal treatment of persons with disabilities when accessing published works protected by copyright or related rights. With the amendment of this law, persons who are blind, visually impaired and persons with other reading disabilities will have better access to books and other printed works in formats that will be adapted to their needs, such as Braille, an enlarged print or a sound book. The draft law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the Directive of the European Union, the so-called EU Directive on certain authorised uses of certain works and other subject-matter protected by copyright and related rights, for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disabilities. Otherwise, it is true that most Member States of the European Union have not yet transposed the provisions of this European Directive into their national legislation, that we will do so today and hope that the others will do so as soon as possible. We also propose to all ministries that, at the time of drafting laws on sensitive topics such as human rights and the rights of persons with disabilities, they should consult and coordinate with the widest possible range of key stakeholders in each area. In addition, in the SMC, we advocate the early establishment of an effective cross-border exchange between the Member States of the European Union and beyond, enabling eligible persons in the Republic of Slovenia to have easier access to parts in appropriate formats that have been made mainly outside Slovenia. Thus, eligible persons will have better conditions for learning and reading books, which will improve the quality of their lives. Our encouragement is also to the Ministry of Culture to publish and update as soon as possible the list of contacts of authorised entities established in Slovenia, which will in practice exchange copies in an accessible format with an authorised entity established in another Member State of the European Union. Thus, eligible disabled persons will have access to books and other printed works as easily as possible in formats adapted to their needs. For the above reasons, we will unanimously support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mr. Boštjan Koražija, Group of the Left. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for saying so. A nice greeting to all of you! At the initiative of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, which operates within the UN as a specialised agency, the Marrakesh Treaty on facilitating access to published works for blind and visually impaired persons and disabled persons with other reading disorders was adopted in Marrakesh on 27 June 2013. Today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights transposes the provisions of the two Directives and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the permitted use of certain works and other subject-matter protected by copyright and related rights for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disabilities and amending the Directive on the coordination of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. Thus, provisions on compulsory and uniform exceptions and restrictions on copyright and related rights are introduced in the European acquis to ensure the implementation of the Marrakesh Treaty on facilitating access to published works for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disabilities. It should then be noted that the time limit for transposition of the provisions has expired and was 11. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Today's bill regulates equal treatment of persons with disabilities when accessing published works protected by copyright or related rights, thus allowing blind, visually impaired and other readable persons to exchange copies effectively in an accessible format. Persons with disabilities will have easier access to published works in an adapted, accessible format regardless of the form of their disability. Eligible persons — blind, visually impaired and persons with other reading disabilities — will have better and more effective access to books and other printed and audiovisual works in an appropriate form or adapted copy in an accessible format. Cross-border exchanges in the internal market will enable eligible persons to have easier access to works in appropriate, legally-made formats that have been made outside the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, eligible persons will have better conditions for learning and reading books, which will improve the quality of their lives. Some EU Member States have already implemented the provisions, namely Austria, Spain and Sweden. In Levica, at the time of the consideration of this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is warned and requested to have all the other legislation regulated where necessary as soon as possible. Above all, to start a more consistent implementation with the Constitution and the laws of protected rights. However, let those who provide the most basic standards of living be those for access to education, work and equal participation in the regulation of common state things in the field of disabled persons and persons with a greater scope for living the necessary adjustments, as these persons are unfortunately too often overlooked and pushed to the brink of our society and unjustifiablely excluded from the social situation, just by reducing the provision of adapted access to content. I believe, however, that the only way our country should walk and build is the path of the social state, the path of protection and care for everyone, especially those of the weakest and most vulnerable groups in our society. That is why we will support this amendment and supplementation law in Levika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mr Aleksander Reberšek on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u34	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights with the novel facilitates the conditions under which published works can be used free of charge for the benefit of persons with disabilities. Compared to the existing arrangements after this novel, it is not only possible to reproduce and distribute, but also every public implementation, transmission, play, display and detachment of works. In addition, the proposal deletes the condition for use that work is not available in the requested form, which will further facilitate the use of disabled persons, and it is added that a person must have legal access to work for use. The condition is maintained that use must be directly linked to disability and to the extent required by the individual form of disability and not intended to achieve direct or direct economic benefits. For blind, visually impaired persons with impaired perception or reading, the arrangements for specific formats of works adapted for their use shall be adapted. Such works may be produced by authorised entities which provide non-profit education, training, adapted reading or access to information to eligible persons as one of the main activities or part of their mission in the public interest. The Ministry of Culture shall publish on its website a list of the contacts of authorised entities. Authorised entities will ensure the distribution and publication of works in the public and will also ensure that copies are available in an accessible format only to eligible persons or other authorised entities. The proposal creates a specific treatment of the use of copyrights for disabled persons or for the benefit of disabled persons. The bill will also facilitate the awareness of disabled people of published works and therefore encourage their inclusion in society. Because it is a group of people with disabilities in whom such a more favourable treatment is justified and because the disabled are the ones we need to help the most in our society, we support the proposal of the law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marko Bandelli on behalf of the Allenka Bratušek Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues! The Marrakesh Treaty on facilitating access to published works for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disorders has put pressure on the way to the amendment of the law that we are considering today. The ratification and implementation of that Treaty took almost five years, but it is important that we have a result today. The result is the European directive, which we are introducing today's novelty into the Slovenian legal order. The main purpose of the Directive is to establish mandatory and uniform exceptions to copyright and related rights relating to easy access to published works to blind and visually impaired persons. We unanimously support the proposal of the SAB Group. We weighed during the conflict of two constitutional human rights, between the right of persons with disabilities and the right to creativity, which protects authors and their personal and property rights under the title of copyright. We note that the exemption will have a slight impact on the economy, but this impact will be minimal. The exceptions relate to a very narrow circle of the population, where the criteria for an exception are not met by all. The criterion provides that only persons with disabilities who cannot apply part of them without adequate adjustment are entitled to an exemption. Disabled people are one of the most vulnerable groups of the population. Disability makes them more difficult to educate and train for work, harder to obtain employment and thus more difficult to support, and more difficult to involve in society. With the proposed novelty, we will enable people with disabilities to become more socially inclusive and to improve their quality of life. Without any proposed interference with copyright, a disabled person should obtain the author’s permission prior to any use of the work in that form and also pay him compensation. Of course, people with disabilities cannot do this because they would have to bear disproportionately high costs, which they would normally not be able to bear. A deaf person, for example, should seek a Slovenian film producer to obtain his permission to adapt the film to its disability in such a way that the film is equipped with relevant Slovenian subtitles. facilitating access to published works by persons with disabilities is therefore possible only if work is already prepared in advance with regard to the individual form of disability. We also need to give people with disabilities adequate access to these copies, such as online access. It is right that persons with disabilities have the same possibility of access to content protected by copyright and related rights as persons without disabilities. This cannot be achieved otherwise than the proposed amendment to Article 48a and the additional restriction and exemption of copyright. Slovenia is one of the first countries in the world to ratify the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, so we believe that it is also mature to adopt a legal regime that allows disabled persons to be provided with work adapted to their limitations under certain conditions and without the payment of the author's fee. In the SAB, we support the amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for your presentation. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The main purpose of the proposed legal proposal is to transpose the 2017 Directive, which lays down restrictions on copyright and related rights. The Directive provides only for blind, visually impaired and persons with other reading disorders and should be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 11 October 2018. We are considering the proposal following a reduced procedure, as it appears to be less difficult to harmonise the law with other laws or with the law of the European Union. The exceptions and limitations of copyright and related rights are mandatory and uniformly established to facilitate access to published works for blind and visually impaired persons and persons with other reading disorders. These people still face many obstacles to accessing books and other printed material protected by copyright and related rights. Taking into account their rights, measures should be taken to increase the availability of books and other printed material in accessible formats and to improve their circulation in the internal market. This objective is pursued by both the directive and the law. In our case, the limitation of rights for the benefit of all persons with disabilities is extended, provided that they are used for their benefit rather than for the purpose of achieving direct or direct economic benefits. The Directive allows for such derogations and the flaw in the proposal is not sufficiently convincing to justify the applicant. Similarly, the restriction on the exploitation of rights is being challenged by the inability to justify it only with public interest. It is said that human rights must also be weighed. The rights of persons with disabilities referred to in Article 52 of the Constitution and the rights of creativity provided for in Article 60 of the Constitution should first be subject to legitimacy and proportionality tests. Only if the scale shows balance could the proposer and the legislator be able to do specific things for the benefit of the people. And that's why it's going. For Members of the Desus Group, proposals are essential to enable the introduction into the Slovenian legal order of provisions on mandatory and uniform exceptions and restrictions on copyright and related rights in order to ensure easy access to published works for blind, visually impaired persons and ultimately for all persons with disabilities. This is far more important to us than incomprehensible legal overtures for imaginary prestige. The bill also amends the provisions on infringements laid down by the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, as they have been expressed in tolars to date, which is hardly believed. In the Desus Group we will support amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Ivanuša on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u40	Hello, Mr. Chairman! Have a good day, everyone else! We have before us the Law on Copyright and Relative Rights. We will support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. The novelty is aimed at setting exceptions and/or restrictions for the benefit of persons with disabilities. Handicap is not a defect of the body, it is a suppression and impeding of the society of those with disabilities. It is not right for a society to be formed for the purposes and in a way that is adapted only to non-hendified ones, since the latter are favoured and the handicapped are exposed. In particular, today's proposal refers to blind, visually impaired and other reading disorders. This is where I especially expose people who have dyslexia. We know those who have developed the concept of certain materials for dyslexics, and we will also send them to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Discrimination based on disability is prohibited under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest national rule, the latter in Article 14 guaranteeing the same human rights and fundamental freedoms for everyone regardless of disability. Discrimination due to disability means any distinction, exclusion due to disability. The purpose or result is to reduce or destroy the equal recognition, enjoyment and realization of all rights and obligations in all key areas of life. The general rule of copyright is that copyright work or the subject of the protection of a related right can only be applied by permission of the holder of copyright or related rights. Only in cases provided for by law may copyright be used without the permission of the rightholder. The main objective of the proposed novel is to facilitate access to published works for disabled persons. The novel will ensure equal access for disabled persons to published works protected by copyright or related rights. So far, the latter has been poorly regulated. Therefore, for the benefit of persons with disabilities, free reproduction, distribution or communication of published works protected by copyright or related rights will be free, provided that the use is directly linked to their disability and to the extent required by the individual form of disability and is not intended to achieve direct or direct economic benefits. Disabled persons will have easier access to published works in an adapted copy in an accessible format. It is a matter of better and more effective access to books and other printed works in an appropriate format or an adapted copy thereof in an accessible format. Access formats include a brace, increased printing, custom e-books, sound books. The proposed amendment also pursues the objective, under better conditions, of acquiring better knowledge and reading books, which will ultimately improve the quality of life of these people. Amendments to the law apply to persons who, due to their functional physical impairment, cannot read printed works and whose work is reproduced in an accessible format by adapting to individuals according to their form of disability or disability or disorder. Those persons marked by nature should also be assisted by today’s regulation. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we will support the novel, as I have already said in the introduction. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u42	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Amendments and amendments to the law shall transpose the provisions of the Directive of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order. The key objectives of the proposed law are: easier access to published works for persons with disabilities, compliance with the European Union Directive, remedying identified shortcomings in offences. The principles of the proposed law provide for equal treatment of persons with disabilities in access to published works protected by copyright or related rights, an effective exchange of copies in an accessible format for blind, visually impaired and persons with other reading disabilities. We appeal to both the government and the Ministry of Economy in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to discuss more seriously with key stakeholders concerned by the law in the future in the transposition of the directives. According to our conduct, neither the Ministry of the Economy nor the Government at any given time have met with the key stakeholders concerned by this law, but they are disabled. I think it is important that the persons concerned by the European Directive, which are being transposed into the Slovenian legal order, also give their opinions or their comments. Otherwise, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposed amendments and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Edvard Paulič as a representative of the last parliamentary group, the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u44	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In addition to all the obstacles that blind and visually impaired people face in their daily lives, lack of access to books and reading further contributes to their sense of exclusion. Imagine having one or two books available when you enter the library instead of full-fledged bookshelves with books of various contents, and that's all. Approximately this is the percentage of books that are available to them. The Marrakesh Treaty allows blind, visually impaired, and people with other problems to read books to help solve the problems of book hunger, which is a serious global social problem. States Parties shall require the adoption of national laws promoting the publication of books intended for blind, visually impaired or persons with other readable disabilities in an accessible format, such as Braille, e-books, audio books or large print. The adoption of these laws will facilitate the exchange of these items and parts also cross-border, across national borders, without the need for the authorisation of the copyright holder. This bill transposes the provisions of the European Directive on certain authorised uses of works protected by copyright and related rights into the Slovenian legal order. Of course, certain conditions must be met for such use, such as that authorised entities must have legal access to copyright, the work must be intended exclusively for the use of eligible persons and the activity must be carried out in a non-profitable manner. The new rules, as part of the Digital Single Market Strategy, introduce a mandatory and pan-European copyright exemption. Rapid access to more and more diverse content will be ensured without prior permission from rightholders, which is an important step towards better integration of blind and other disabled persons into society, thus gaining better access to culture and entertainment. We will therefore support the proposal of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 26 September, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 9. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the harmonisation of individual and household transfers in the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I call on the Secretary of State to present his position on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u46	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Thank you for your word. The Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, with the abbreviation ZUTPG, covers 34 social transfers that are coordinated under this Act. Following the current regulation, harmonisation is established twice a year, in January and July on the basis of data on semi-annual inflation. The proposal for amendments to the law provides for a different mode of coordination, whereby, following a proposal for transfers to individuals and households, they are reconciled once a year, i.e. on 1 March, with the rise in prices of living necessities in the previous year, according to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law will take measures in the area of transfers to individuals and households to ensure that the socio-economic situation is maintained for individuals, with the change bringing greater transparency, simplification and legal certainty. In a specific case, it is a matter of harmonising transfers in a uniform manner in one regulation; and not more in different substantive rules. Let me point out, however, that the financial implications presented in the law no longer reflect the actual situation, as they would only be relevant if the law were adopted before 1 July of this year. Since this has not occurred, there has already been a half-year harmonisation of transfers, by 2.4%, which, converted to an annual level, amounts to approximately EUR 30 million higher expenditure on transfers provided by the Ministry at annual level; and not what is said in the proposal for a 6-billion-dollar reduction in expenditure. A uniform alignment with rising prices of living needs is followed by the primary purpose of the law, which is to cover higher living costs due to rising prices. Harmonisation once a year will also entail, inter alia, a certain burden on social work centres and administrative units. The first-degree authorities will thus have more time to work directly with the parties, which is also a greater benefit for the people the system has to serve. It also represents one of the Ministry's important activities since the beginning of this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u47	Mr Secretary of State, you haven't used your minutes, which I thank you for. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. And with that word, I give it to President Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by the Government, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly did not accept the proposal for a bill to be considered on an urgent basis and was therefore examined by the Committee on the basis of Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee was provided with material published on the websites of the National Assembly: a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and the amendments tabled. Representatives of the proposer and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 3 and 4. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal of the law. The representative of the proposer briefly presented the amendments. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, however, said that their comments regarding the harmonisation of the aid allowance and the service under the Law on Disability of War and Distinguishment were taken into account, as well as comments on the entry into force of the amendments tabled. In the debate, the debate considered that the social assistance system should be simplified. We already have eighty different transfers in this law, making the system opaque and opaque. An effective and, of course, sustainable system must be made. Some debaters, however, stressed that this was again an attempt to cut into social transfers. In their view, the Government's proposal reduces the coordination of transfers as they are currently being coordinated twice a year; and they propose that the existing mode of coordination be maintained. The level of risk of poverty has not changed according to the year before. In view of the government's commitments to tackle poverty seriously, this measure is unacceptable from the point of view of the social state. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 3 and 4 and voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first Member is already coming, this is Ambassador Mojca Žnidarič, on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respected and respected! The Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households entered into force on 1 January 2007 and was already envisaged to index transfers once a year in view of rising prices of living needs. With the novel that we are adopting today, we are returning to the original proposal, which, like today's focus, has focused on greater transparency, simplification and, above all, the unity of coordination of an important part of social transfers in our country. This will also make the level of harmonisation predictable in advance and will continue to pursue the primary objective of indexing transfers, i.e. covering the higher living costs of citizens and citizens. Following the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, some will try to show that the proposal of the law is antisocial, that it is based on austerity principles and that it takes on the most socially weak. Let us therefore make it clear here that this is not the case. The amount of social transfers does not change or decrease by amending this law. The socio-economic situation of individuals and families will not deteriorate due to its adoption, as the level of transfers will remain at the same level. The cash social assistance will still amount to 402 euros, and all transfers in the field of family policy, disability, unemployment, scholarships, housing, support and services remain at the same level. The latest data show that in the first half of 2019, EUR 742 million was allocated to individuals and households, which is 12.6% more than in the same period last year. Family benefits and parental benefits increased by 6.2% and about 40% of social security transfers. By the end of 2019, the Ministry of Labour will have allocated 1.25 billion euros to individuals and households for transfers. These aren't small numbers. The fact that, as of 1 January 2019, all austerity measures in the area of family policy have been released and that an additional EUR 35.5 million have been allocated; that the minimum wage has been raised and that the next raise is due soon; that with 1 August there has already been 2.7% harmonisation of all transfers; that the coordination of all transfers and revenue limits to determine the eligibility of annual public funds from public funds until recently is completely frozen; and that there are not negligible and insignificant facts when we assess how good or bad a country cares for individuals, for families, for socially vulnerable families, in fact for all members of our society. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we assess that coordination of transfers once a year means greater transparency, predictability and reliability for citizens and citizens, and we will therefore support the proposal of the law. And once again, we stress that the populism thesis of some about the kidnapped social state is often heard conveniently, but they have little to do with reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Mr Miha Kordish, on behalf of the Left Group, and you are next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Being a wealthy society in which hundreds of thousands of people are plagued by poverty is a national disgrace. Our Slovenian national disgrace. Poverty eradication should be one of the political priorities, but despite the record budget, a series of tax gifts to the highest wages and 4.2 billion net profits in the economy, poverty in Slovenia is still widespread. Under the risk of poverty, there are 268 thousand people and 45 thousand more than before the crisis. To risk poverty 13.3% of the population, it is terrifying in itself. That it is a Slovenian social picture in the middle of conjuncture and economic prosperity, but unthinkable. For capitalists, managers, renters and other systemic parasites, the crisis has long ended, but not for the most exposed working-class layers. And as the country has made a valuable contribution to record wealth creation for the rich, the country is also responsible for deepening poverty among the poorest. While the roots of capital subsidies and tax services receive minority ruling classes, its class stick is reserved for pathological logic of never-ending savings on working shoulders. From the crisis to the conjuncture, from year to year. As if the consequences of the veneration of the privileged and the beating of the poor over the past decade are not enough, the power of the rich has rewinded its antisocial sleeves. At the same time, as he prepares 145 million new income cuts for himself and for his capitalist friends, the dead cold yet more cleavage social transfers to the poorest. Instead, the government's political priority is to deepen social exclusion. Instead of a war of poverty, she predicted war on the poor. They're going to drop 57 million anti-social ammunition from all sides. Unlike the €100 million heavy budget increase for NATO, which will go abroad and support camps in Latvia, the occupation of Afghanistan and the subsidisation of West military-industrial complexes, the bombs of social cuts will blow up at home. The 35 million will be cut off by the intervention ZUJF of Marjan Šarc to the protection allowance for pensioners and disabled persons. In addition, it will reduce the volume of beneficiaries by locking down asset prices for the next two years. The 16 million will take away the abolition of the unemployment allowance from poor employees, single mothers and other active recipients. Oraped as individuals will also be up to 200 euros each month. An additional 4 million will be saved by the government on social security programmes aimed at helping the most needed groups in this country. The current law, which we are currently considering, is twice the annual coordination of social transfers and family benefits with rising prices of living needs being eliminated and coordination is only introduced once a year. An additional €6 million will disappear from the working pockets every year in the resulting intermund. There will be more than social assistance, the impact will also be felt: child allowance, scholarships, invalidity, unemployment benefits, parental, maternity and paternity benefits, child support and many other transfers. As a year will have to wait for the reconciliation increase after the new year, in 2020 alone some 3 million euros will be lost from parental benefits and family benefits. The government of Marjan Šarc has committed itself to fighting poverty. That was one of the key reasons why we supported her in Levica. But, as it turns out, by eliminating poverty, he does not mean serious and the millstone revolves in the direction of wrong political priorities. Like his predecessors, Charec millers are richer than white flour, and even babies are counted to the poor. We will oppose this bill in the Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u54	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we advocate the separation of social and family policies, as this can only result in simplification of the social assistance system, family benefits. And that's the only way to make them the most righteous. In fact, such a complicated system makes it impossible for all who do not have legal knowledge or good advisers to seek help when faced with hardship. In some past times, one would say that this is arranged to prevent an individual from being able and able to help himself. The bill will ensure coordination of transfers once a year for individuals and households in a uniform and transparent manner. This will be done every 1 March, based on the rise in prices of living needs in the previous year, to be published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments to the law are also intended to increase the legal security of the system's users, while depriving workers of administrative units and social work centres. As a result, in Nova Slovenija we expect teams of people to be strengthened on the ground who will focus on people who really need help. However, these should have worked immediately after the reorganisation of social work centres; unfortunately, we have witnessed a complete collapse of the system. In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposed law represents a step towards debirocratisation of social regulations. We want social justice in New Slovenia as soon as possible, of course, in connection with simplified procedures and the provision of smart Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Vojko Starović, and you will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The new Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia redefines the time and number of transfers. The latter will bring greater transparency, simplification, predictability and, consequently, legal certainty, and thus greater justice. The proposal provides for the harmonisation of transfers to individuals and households once a year, on 1 March, together with the rise in prices of living needs. Currently, transfers are coordinated twice a year. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, we will support the proposal despite some criticism that it is a matter of saving the poorest. We trust the Ministry of Labour's decisions; at the same time, we call for the potentially saved money to be used wisely. Let me remind you that the size of the budget prepared by the Ministry of Finance, despite the announced cooling of the economy, is yet another of the largest in the history of our country; I therefore expect that we will devote more resources to vulnerable groups, socially excluded and, of course, also pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Now you have the word, Mr Jurij Lep, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! The objective of income coordination is to maintain its real value and this value is influenced by several factors or conditions, such as rising prices of living costs, rising wages or growth of gross domestic product. The way in which incomes are coordinated is generally regulated in advance, for example, social transfers under the current regime are coordinated twice in one year in July in view of the increase in prices of living needs in the first half of the year; and in January, according to price increases in the second half of the previous year. In doing so, it should be pointed out that transfers were initially coordinated only once a year, just as the minimum wages and pensions are being coordinated today. This aligns the minimum wage at least once a year with the increase in prices of living needs and regularly aligns pensions at the beginning of the year in line with a combination of 60% with wage growth and 40% with the increase in prices of living needs compared to last year. Prior to the adoption of the last pension reform in 2012, pensions, like social transfers today, were coordinated twice a year. The two-year coordination of social benefits, given the second comparison I have highlighted, will therefore be in the eyes of our conviction primarily because social benefits can be raised faster than the income generated by work. If we look at the comparison of our social income indexing arrangements with other countries, our regime also stands out. In the Desus Group, therefore, for reasons of comparability with minimum wage and pensions, we agree with the proposal for a one-time coordination of social benefits. In addition, according to the assessment of the Desus Group, a new mode of coordination also means greater transparency and simplification of work, as administrative work is burdened by social work centres, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and administrative units as well as local communities. A uniform alignment with the rise in prices of living needs is followed by the primary purpose of transfers, which is to cover higher living costs, while it is important that, despite the lower frequency of tracking the rise in living costs, an adequate socio-economic position of individuals will continue to be ensured. The proposed solutions to this law are acceptable to Members of the Desus Group and we will therefore support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mr Jani Ivanuš has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u60	Have a nice hello to you all again! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. With this bill, the government has brought us on thin ice because they want to reduce all social transfers by one minimal change. I'm not going to argue, but these transfers are supposed to be around 30. However, savings in the state budget are expected to be between €5 million and €6 million per year. The position of the Slovenian National Party has always been that people work as hard as possible and that social transfers are intended only for those Slovenes who cannot work because of sickness or age. We do not accept any other excuses in the Slovenian National Party. Budget expenditure for social transfers is too high. This is all the more important because we are at a time of economic growth. At the same time, it is worth noting that although it is calming down, we still lack workers. As long as workers, labour, are lacking, social transfers should not be increased. The problem that we have in our parliamentary group in adopting this proposal is that we are only in favour of reducing certain social transfers, such as monetary social assistance. The number of recipients is increasing, and the total cost for the unemployed is increasing. Slovenia is a country where there should be no unemployed person. Work is enough for anyone who wants to work. On the other hand, we don’t mind raising the child’s allowance, the allowance for help and service, or the grant. Such supplements should even be increased. No one wants to be a recipient of such an additive, which is due to higher power. Although the bill does not provide for a reduction in remuneration, it does only provide for a single increase instead of a double increase per year. In the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. The word has magic. Carmen Furman, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a government law amending the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that transfers to individuals and households that have so far been coordinated twice a year would be re-coordinated only once a year, on 1 March, according to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia with rising prices of living necessities in the previous year. In the amendment proposal, the proposal explains that such coordination means greater transparency, simplification and legal certainty, as most of the harmonisation will continue to be predictable; but the government, by adopting the proposed amendments on the other hand, also provides for a budget savings of €6 million in 2019 and €5.61 million in 2020, which, of course, means that transfers are reduced to the detriment of our citizens. It is right to pursue objectives such as transparency, simplification of official procedures and legal certainty through the proposed legislative amendments; however, it is necessary to point out, in the context of the proposed amendments, that such an intervention reduces the different types of transfers on a flat-rate basis, as the adoption of the proposal will reduce the frequency of coordination of transfers with rising prices of living needs. Consequently, such a proposal has no equal effect on all its recipients. According to the government proposal, benefits of a social nature are reduced, as well as those based on paid contributions from workers, such as cash compensation for the case of unemployment. And only on this transfer would the government save a million euros this year and 1.35 million euros next year if approved today's proposal. Even greater savings are projected by the government to the detriment of the beneficiaries of parental compensation and family benefits, as it is planned to reduce these payments totalling €4.19 million in 2019 and €3.2 million in 2020. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already tabled an amendment with the New Slovenia Party in 2008 as part of the amendments to the legislation under consideration, proposing the harmonisation of transfers twice a year or so that the recipients of transfers would be the most favourable. Therefore, in view of all of the above, we cannot support the Government proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you for your introduction, Madam Ambassador. Ms Nina Maurovic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. The current legislation commands that transfers to individuals and households should be coordinated twice a year. In addition to some editorial corrections, the bill we are considering today provides for the coordination of transfers once a year, on 1 March. This ensures greater transparency, simplification and legal certainty, as the level of harmonisation will be predictable in advance. Even under the new regime, as proposed by the law under consideration, the calculation will take into account the increase in the cost of living at the time of one year. This is without prejudice to the basic objective of transfers and is to cover the cost of living. Similarly, the amount of transfers will not be reduced to individuals and households and coordination will be uniform and simplified. For there is a great deal of evidence that our society is being pooled to the extremes. The proposed arrangement is also a step towards a less delayed procedure that burdens social work centres, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and administrative units. We wish that all of the valuable time we have acquired could now be devoted to customer work. Transfers to individuals and households who would be coordinated once a year under the new regime are: child allowance, child care allowance, partial loss of income payment, large family allowance, child birth allowance, parental allowance, maternity, paternity and parental allowance, scholarships, foster care, cash compensation for unemployment, and allowance for assistance and service. In addition, it should be pointed out that, in order to implement the provisions of the infamous ZUJF, all the transfers listed have not been coordinated or increased for up to eight years. The first increase since 2011 took place in July of this year. Since we have an extremely complex system of many social assistance, which, at times, even threatens to become completely opaque and opaque, we need to start by adopting solutions that lead to simplification and simplification of the system; which is also regulated by the law before us. We therefore support the proposed amendment of the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. And as the last on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Sonibo Knezak has the word on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you, President. Government representatives, respectable colleagues, colleagues! By amending the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households, we introduce a comprehensive and transparent way of coordinating social transfers by increasing the cost of living paid from state and municipal budgets and a security allowance by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. Social transfers will be coordinated with the increase in living costs in the previous year, according to data from the Statistical Office once a year, every 1 March of the current year. The only exceptions will be the harmonisation of the basis for the assessment of the pension under the law laid down by the law on the protection of war invalids and the basis for the assessment of the pension under the law laid down by the Act on Victims of War for Slovenia 1991. Both of these bases will be coordinated with the increase in the cost of living on 1 January of the current year. Amendments to the law bring transparency and predictability of the level of social transfers to all those receiving them, as the level of individual social transfer for the current year will be more predictable than it is today. By maintaining the coordination of social transfers with the growth of living costs, we continue to ensure an adequate standard of living for all those in distress. The Slovenian system of social transfers is relatively effective in terms of poverty reduction compared to the other members of the European Union, as we are among the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union according to the Justice Index. In doing so, we believe that we must continue to strengthen social services and social security programmes in the field for all vulnerable groups; in particular, social services linked to the long-term care of the elderly must be strengthened. We also need to make more efforts to save long-term recipients of financial social assistance by activating and integrating them into the labour market. For this purpose, it would be useful to strengthen the social activation programme and maintain the supplement to work activity. The Social Democrats will support the changes in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Dear Members, we are moving to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 24 September 2019. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'm opening the application. We only have one application. Mr. Primaj Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. As already explained in the introductory words, we are very surprised by the policy of the current coalition structure. Those Members and Members who have ever engaged in marketing or marketing, you know that it is a very important concept that any action in this foho starting is to define something that is in English called the mood board. This is a set of elements that define what the thing that we will now represent, sell or do with it will be. And this usually means choosing color, typography, logo, way of communicating with the target audience, how we will talk to them, who is our target audience and so on. When this government coalition formed, it was very clear. This will be a coalition that will look to the left, which will be a social one, working to effectively eliminate poverty. This is also borne out by commitments under the Coalition Treaty, at least as regards poverty and social policies. “Decreasing the general rate of poverty must be the priority and desire of every developed society. A decent life must be ensured for all, with a balance between wage recipients and social transfers in order to promote the work of everyone for the work of capable citizens." At the beginning of this mandate, poverty eradication was the main leader of the coalition and the government of Marjan Šarc, as well as the main element in which we decided to support this government as an external partner in the final phase – their announced and promised social policies. But it all turns out it was a marketing move. Also, this mood board, which was set up at the time, is now being created in a completely different direction, making voters and voters rightly confused. And what we have before us today is a very clear antisocial measure. Anti everything that the beginnings of this government coalition have promised. First, it must be explained that we are living in an environment where bold, harsh and bold social movements are necessary. There are still 280,000 people among us who live below the poverty line; there are still 46,000 children among them. The translation of the social state into action would provide as many opportunities as possible for these people. To ensure an environment where everyone, including among them, can live safely and be an equivalent part of society and contribute to it. We have a country on one side trying to tackle this problem through some eye-saving. By the time of the crisis, the ZUJF had hit the hardest here, we had witnessed saving on the shoulders of the poorest, the most vulnerable. This is clearly a practice that is being carried through all governments from Janševa forward, although Cerarjeva first came in a different direction with her mood board, and then now Sarčeva also promised something like this, but still. At the same time, we have one measure on the table that will save approximately 12 million years of savings. On the other hand, we're talking about the 42 million we're going to donate to the military. There is a lot of data here that goes to the point that the general policy of the current government is quite confused. And rightly, they're confused voters and voters. As it is said, the direction is diametrically opposite to that promised at the beginning. In order not only to criticise, we have also drafted one amendment in the Levica Group, which is the last option to tackle the incomprehensibility of this measure or to at least ease the deepening of the pressures and create a more secure environment for the weakest members of the company; which says that the provision of the amended Article 3 begins to apply on 1 January of the year following the year in which the identified level of risk of poverty is less than 6,7 %, which is half of the degree of poverty that we are facing now, i.e. 13,3 %. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to intercede on the futility of this proposal, to support our amendment and thus at least ease the deepening of the pressures and create a more secure environment for our weakest. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much for your arguments, Member. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. By the proponents of this law or the coalition advocates of this law, we have been able to hear how there are no cuts in social transfers, how we panic in Levica, how we work from an elephant fly, as if there is nothing. But, colleagues and colleagues, in assessing the financial implications of this law, the government has stated that only in the following year will it be as a result of the transition from a two-year transition to a one-year coordination of the level of social transfers with the growth of living needs in the budget of the saved €5.6 million. So, if we are not saving on social and family benefits, where does intervention in the social transfers line give rise to €5.6 million in budget surplus, if I say so? Where, then, will the budget save €5.6 million if it tightens and tightens social and family spending? Colleagues and colleagues, you can step on the speaker several times, claim in the camera with your most angelic face that you do not use cuts in social transfers, that these are not austerity measures to avoid imitating the Janša government; however, when we look at your laws when we look at your budget lines that you intend to realize, facts, numbers, euros and consequences speak the opposite. If you insist on these pianist claims that you do not go saving on the weak, please explain the following. How do you characterise the taking of €35 million on the pensioner and disability allowance? In order to freeze the volume of beneficiaries in terms of asset prices for the next two years? How do you explain cutting the allowance for work for poor employees, single mothers, other recipients of transfers that are active? These people will lose up to 200 euros each month out of their pocket, save the budget again, this time 16 million euros. So how do you describe the four million cut in social security items, those programmes that are aimed at the poorest, most exposed segments of the working class in this country. Puts together 57 million euros of sparunga on the poor; and this in the middle of the conjuncture. So if you're not saving on the poor, then what are you doing with it?Oh, my God! What's more than saving on the poor? Controversy, on the contrary, is not a deception, but a lie. An even more hairy excuse, which is difficult to call a lie, but certainly a deception, we were able to hear on the referee's committee when this bill was considered, since numbers in economic growth and so on can be turned around at the prices of living needs and then the picture for the poor will be different. czš, this was a response to the insistence of us in Levica to cut out this provision, to stop coordination twice a year and to bring in coordination once a year. Even this audacity to justify saving cuts on poor people, not only is not taken, but it should be for the poor who will receive these cuts, even better. Not only are we talking about social assistance in this particular law, that no one will have the wrong idea, but we even have a variety of benefits here, which will give everyone little credit. And, as I have already said, only in the following year will the total weight of this cut be €5.6 million, according to estimates made by the Government's own lawmakers on the table. This will be known on the child allowance, on scholarships, on invalidity allowances, on unemployment benefits, on parental, maternity, paternity benefits, on child support and on other transfers. In this particular law, it is not just social assistance, it is a whole set of expenses, which we characterise as social and familyal. That it was the original application in 2006 for support and for candy if you want, although you would personally call it an urgent policy of support for the poorest, it is also clear from the explanation of the amendment written by the then SDS-type applicants, NSI, that I think the SNS has also supported this consideration. It is very clear from that explanation that twice a year the alignment of the level of transfers with the growth of living needs has been introduced because in this way the poor or recipients of these transfers receive more money than they would otherwise have received. And 13 years later, this attempt is made — a modest gain, yet a gain — to roll back. And that's what the government does, watch out, not even the right government that introduced it at the time, and that's what the government, which describes itself as central, even left-handed. And then he's operating on a set of excuses that the dog brought to the tip of the tail, that it's not really saving. At the same time, the same authority is planning a tax reform, which is difficult for 145 million euros. Here, however, the budget is expected to be scaled up in order to disproportionately increase wages through the income cuts of those who already have the highest income, says those salaries that are already among the highest in this country. And after we saw two such cuts in income in the previous term, which have already brought the highest wages a huge increase and the budget robbed, if I am not mistaken, between €80 million and €100 million each year. Now, as a relief, the continuation of the same thing by the government is trying to tighten the belts of the poor, as if they were not already having enough difficulty in their lives. To my challenge to the defenders of this law, to the coalition Members, to justify what is another challenge for a few million difficult interventions in social transfers other than saving on the poor, I add another challenge to the right wing of this Chamber. This right wing changed this law in 2006, submitted an amendment, and today we were able to hear from their kind that they will not support government law. And when someone says - we won't support it; it can be interpreted in two ways to be abstention or to vote against. Here I wonder whether, colleagues and colleagues on the right, you will vote against this, against the government's social action; or whether you will only raise your hand. If you are consistent, you will have little support even for the amendment we have given in Levica, which is currently blocking the enforcement of this harmful anti-social law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. State Secretary Tillen Christmas has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I just want to make a few things clear. I have already explained on the committee today in the introductory words that the assessments referred to in the law are no longer relevant. And I believe you've heard that a number of times. I have to reiterate once again that the assessments, which are listed as estimates where savings are reported, are not relevant. What does it mean that they are not relevant? We filed a marriage a month ago. At that time, it was proposed that it should be submitted in accordance with the urgency procedure in order to possibly be applied before 1 July. If it were, those financial consequences would be relevant. That's the 6 million alleged savings you're talking about. Since it was not implemented, the indexation of 2.4 % took place on 1 July, as I also said in the introductory address, and I also said this several times at a meeting of the competent committee. With €1.3 billion, if we multiply this by 2.5% to get an approximate volume at the annual level, this is about €30 million more expenditure; not €6 million less. I'd like to do it again. The savings set out in the proposal do not hold due to the time difference in the adoption of the law. I'd respond to those cuts you're talking about all the time. The implementation of transfers at ministerial level will significantly exceed the increase of hundreds of millions of euros in one year. We are talking about about about 150 million euros more for transfers, which means that this is not cutting; however, no matter how you turn and explain it, it is 150 million euros more. The purpose is different; something comes from the abandonment of austerity measures in family policy; a good part comes from the fact that one of the measures adopted last year is money social assistance, which you know a lot about, even because an amendment is set — I think it was close to you at the time — came to reality. For this reason, there has been a significant increase in monetary social assistance; by raising monetary social assistance, we are talking about a 35% increase in all weights related to monetary social assistance. This rise is known everywhere, of course, on transfers. In this way, a certain segment of transfers gained considerable weight, volume and control, which, of course, is inversely proportional to this. For this reason and in view of the cut, which, despite the fact that it is significantly larger, also thanks to the Minister, who at the time fought for a significant increase in funds in the Ministry of Labour cut, still means that consideration should be given to the fact that you, in fact, have set what the government's priority is, that is, monetary social assistance. Through this, this has been translated into a budget, which means that other measures must, of course, be done something; but not this concrete one that we have on the table today. I repeat, it does not lower. From here on out, there is another matter to mention, for it was said that it was a matter of some sort of arrogance. In the last 11 years, when we look at coordination twice a year — the first 6 months, the second 6 months. In the last 11 years, eight times inflation was negative in the second half of the year. If we coordinate with rising prices of living needs, we should reduce transfers in those eight cases; they are not because the indexation was frozen, which means that it did not go up and down. What you're talking about, this amendment to the law, happened in 2008. In the first half of 2008, inflation was significant, approximately 4.1%; in the second half of the year, it was minus 2%; however, in the second half, it was said that in early 2009, no indexation had taken place down or down, at least in the second half of 2008. In the remaining eleven years, as has already been said, in the second half, eight times negative inflation, once zero, twice positive. Given the initial growth this year, it is expected that inflation will likely be negative again in the second half of the year; once again, based on inflation, which was 2.4% in the first half of the year, indexation has occurred. This is precisely why monetary social assistance has increased to 402.18 euros, as well as other transfers, and thus all the weightings associated with it. It is certainly worth mentioning something else when we talk about the social policy of this government. The Minister, we and the President of the Government have repeatedly stressed that this is a multi-layered matter, if I may say so. One of these issues is whether people have a job or a decent salary for what they do. And that's what this government is working on. You have also participated in a number of cases if I turn to Levico here; you know that the minimum salary has already been raised this year, it is again raised next year, the minimum wage is also excluded. At the same time, since this government's mandate, I think that there have been 76,000 unemployed, at this point the number of unemployed is below 70,000. It is also true that in the greatest depths of the crisis that this country has experienced, monetary social assistance was around €230. The recipients of the financial social assistance were around 60–65 000. Today there are over 90,000 of them and receive almost twice as much financial social assistance because it means that it does not hold this information. Statistics are certainly to be turned in this or that direction, but the fact is that the available income from transfers to people has increased since these transfers are significantly higher than at the bottom of the crisis. If we look at that year, one of the hardest years, by about a month of August, we made realisation on monetary social transfers, as was the year when it was the most difficult year of the year, the situation is significantly better. Unemployment – about 50,000 people less; on the other hand, a significantly higher number of active people, the elderly also decide to stay longer in the labour market. At a time when the economy needs us, we are also active in attracting people from other countries to come to help at this time so that the economy can function. They pay taxes to make those people who work pay for this. And finally, through transfers, it helps those who need it. Now these claims with some antisocial policy do not hold you back. At the same time, I would like to point out something that I heard on national television on Friday after the reports that you made today, at least now I know where it comes from to save €35 million on the security supplement. That's a lie. I'm not gonna say "untruth," because I don't think that word means anything; but that's a lie, that's not true. Where did you get this, I don't know. It's true that there was one piece of work we talked about, including a coalition. She had different solutions. She did not have nearly all the solutions; the ones we talked about. It was hung by the Ministry of Finance on the Government's agenda, but, as you know, it has not been dealt with, the matter is still under discussion. We'll see what happens. But such extreme intimidation on work materials, which do not yet have definitive justifications, which do not yet have definitive calculations, where it has not even occurred to us to discuss democratically here, let us inform the coalition that it knows what is being discussed. Not in an impressive way, let's say something and say – Now we've squeezed you into a corner; but let's say – look, the possibilities are these, these and these, the consequences will be these, our goal is to achieve something; and then we reach a common agreement. In this way, it is difficult to come up with solutions that are appropriate. But, as you know, the escalation in social transfers is high. Once again, the level of funding allocated by this country for social transfers has increased significantly over the past two years, thus also showing further. Mr Siter, you mentioned that we must provide as many opportunities as possible. I agree. As many options as possible, yes, of course, but they are not the only options for monetary social assistance and transfers; in fact, we allow those who need to be rehabilitated to come back to the labour market in order to enable them to have a solid active employment policy to enable those who need a solid social activation that may be longer than the labour market. And of course, such programmes, which help everyone to be able to serve their own bread, were adequately paid for this and were ultimately dependent on social transfers, so that we can direct them, even in larger amounts, just those they actually need, those who cannot work, are unable or must be helped for some other reason to live with dignity in this country. At the same time, I would mention, given the numbers we have, including economic growth, wage growth and so on, even if we look at the pensioners' area, the annual allowance was about €20 million higher last year. At the same time, it is worth mentioning that in the next half of the year, pensions will increase by about 5% by the end of the year and regular harmonisation at the beginning of next year, which will be effective as of February for January, which is not so small again. 5% represents an additional €250 and €300 million for this population. For each population, if we go to segment it, we can still say that this government has dedicated itself to it, to see what it can do. It is true, however, that certain moves, including those from the previous term of office, bring this room of manoeuvre to a close. But no matter what was meant for, as I have already said, over 100 million euro of extra money for social transfers. And we can't talk about cuts even if we wanted to. As for the amendment, the government does not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. Since it's still an interest in the debate, I'm going to open the application. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. After such an explanation by the Secretary of State, we can virtually be without words, but I must say that I am pleased that we agree with the Secretary of State on what is good or how to ensure social security. Of course, it's with higher wages, higher pensions. Only in this way can we say that we have a country that cares that its citizens can live. When we talk about social security, we need to be aware and aware that social security needs to be ensured for children, young people, in recent years also for employees, because we have more and more poor employees, and of course also for pensioners. Pensioners who are in some way difficult to get into the labour market because you simply have no incentive to find things, perhaps because of the dual status of pensioners we have not yet abolished in the country. The Court of Auditors carried out an audit to verify whether the Government, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Health were successful in ensuring the accessibility and availability of social protection services between 1 January 2007 and 30 June 2018. And what did the Court of Auditors find out about those 11 years ago? Of course, social security has not been sufficiently taken care of, so that the country closes its eyes to aging, that a lot of help for the needy people has been left without care. The Court of Auditors has provided interesting information. Of course, the Ministry of Labour responded and said that they would examine the matter within thirty days if I had the right information. We are waiting for what the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will do. We still have no clear commitments or words from the ministry to ensure higher wages and pensions; whether we will do so by raising gross income, or whether we will do so by raising net income, which means that at the end of the net income, something more would remain in our pockets. Of course, we also advocate this in Novi Slovenija. This is what we have been advocating and proposing to the government for the past five years. Simple things are not desirable to hear, because then people could actually depend on their work and not on social assistance. I don't think that's exactly the priority of the government. Colleagues from the Left here today get upset about what's wrong; but you support this government. You support this government. Who is it? We do not support it in New Slovenia. We've made that public. You're making a scene here of how you're fighters for social rights, how you're fighters to ensure the weakest, you're warning about what social poverty is like in the country; but you're supporting the government. It's hypocrisy. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Christmas, there is only one thing that interests me. How is this reconciliation of transfers for individuals and households with effect from 1 March and we have in Article 107 of the Family Code, the coordination of maintenance once a year in January? From experience alone, from the complexity of the social work centres system, I know that this system is too complicated to require the individual's knowledge of the law, and I don't know what else to know, exactly when you need to file a request at the social work center. And I'm really counting on you to unify all these things so that you can also unify the coordination of nutrients, as you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. A brief replica of the implementation of Ambassador Iva Dimic. We have really supported this government at the start in Levika, and the government's support is always conditioned by its social policies. As long as the government supports poverty eradication and poverty eradication, Levi will also support the government; unlike any other parliamentary groups, let's say yours, who was willing to offer support to the government in other areas, say NATO membership.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, it wasn't a replica because she didn't get you in anything wrong, but you obviously understood her differently, but she didn't. The replica is in the opposite sense. The word was wanted by Secretary of State Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u78	Only in response to the question why the maintenance is not involved. Maintenance is not a social transfer, not a social transfer. For this reason, they have a different regime for coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Miha Kordish is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman. My debate is largely a controversy with the Secretary of State, who has apparently come before us for this anti-social law to blow up all ammunition, while members of the coalition species who will raise their hands for cuts into social transfers, remain silent as a grave, hide themselves and let Mr Bozic intercept all this ammunition. Squirrel, but in fact, it's pretty vile and hypocritical. In response to this debate, Mr State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, I do not really know exactly where to start. He doesn't care about the financial consequences of this law. At some points, I'd like to respond. The financial implications mentioned in Levica, which say that about €6 million will be saved on the poor, are set out in your proposal for a law. I understand that you have explained that this law was tabled in June, reasonable for the coordination of social transfers to take place with July, but this law is basically in front of us today as you tabled it. You're pushing the law through the parliamentary mill right now, which you say has the financial implications of one big churimur. Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen, on every occasion when an opposition law comes to the table, you so hang on to these financial implications for the budget that it is; even though you have a ministry apparatus with 300 employees and a parliamentary group working here with a few Members and a handful of professional associates. Very concretely, here you press through the anti-social law, you say that these 6 million savings on poor employees, on the recipients of transfers there is no relevant number, with which you have not operated at all, at least not until now; at the same time, let's say our coordination for supplementary health insurance, where the financial consequences have more breath than any law the government has brought into the National Assembly since the beginning of this mandate. What, then, are the financial consequences of this law? How much will be saved in the budget in 2020 as a result of this measure? Or at the plant, how much money will disappear from the pockets of recipients of social and family transfers as a result of this measure? Since you're spinning around like a cat, you're talking about past years, and you're talking about positive growth. My question is very simple. Your law contains EUR 6 million in the budget; this means that EUR 6 million will fall from the income of the poor. You're saying this number isn't accurate. Then what's the correct number? By your own standards, without an exact number, such a law should not come into the procedure at all, except for consideration at the plenary session of the National Assembly. You should have stopped on the committee when we discussed it — according to your own metrics, like you, the government’s side, considering the laws and materials that come to the National Assembly. Next, implementation on transfers. It is said that the realisation of transfers has increased dramatically and that it is a testimony of the social nature of the government. There's two things to say here. For the first time, the rise in financial social assistance was due to the fact that we forced it into Levica. Today, not the minister, not the secretaries, nor anyone else from the comfortable chairs would explain to the poor that they do not actually take millions from their incomes, even though it seems that they are taking millions from them if they do not receive this financial social assistance. The amendment that preserved this withdrawal in advance was not an amendment with which we looked forward to it in Levica; it was an amendment that we tabled in Levica and was adopted at the time. And the second response I have to all this arguing about how the government is social because the scope of social transfers has risen; in fact, you are implicitly using this as an argument for cuts into social transfers. We have chosen to raise monetary social assistance in Levica, and now you are trying to deny the positive effects on poverty eradication everywhere. Perhaps it is better metrics, or certainly better metrics, how effectively they deal with poverty, not what the extent of social transfers is, but the number that we today have 45 thousand people below the threshold of poverty risk before the crisis. That's relevant information, that's information. Not those Euros that move around. Then talk about work, jobs and wages, if that's the best cure for poverty. But, ladies and gentlemen, you cut a supplement for work that supports very poor employees, those who go to work, those who work who get money; but unfortunately the money they receive in compensation for their work is not enough to bring them over the threshold of risk of poverty or over these censorships as they count. And that's why these people work because they don't get a proper payment for their work or a better payment for their work; then the country jumps in with this supplement to work. And here you are about how jobs, wages and so on are; then – Op, 16 million cuts just when they receive the unemployment allowance, which some single mother will take, say, up to 200 euros. And beyond that, you are somehow diverting attention from this measure, which is what you call working material, which is what you intend to cut the pensioners and the disabled 35 million euros into a protective supplement. Mr Christmas, when you say we're lying that you don't know how we got this number, that's what your workbook says, financial impact assessments. It says it in there. Please read it, your own work materials. And why are we after all, not just in Levica, but humanitarian organizations, and someone else, by the way, jumped off the ledge? I can make it very clear that if I didn't know you, I would pay you dearly. The question is, if not for such a hall, before any material came to the National Assembly, perhaps today, the following month would be seen as a naked fact. And the votes of members of coalition parties, and perhaps some right-wing parties, would have been already abused and the matter would have gone through. We'd bark like dogs here, and your caravan of antisocial measures would continue its journey. Of course, I am quite pleased with the fact that, with all this strong response from the humanitarian public to the fact that we have jumped up in Levica, hurry to ensure that it is just work materials. This gives me some hope that this sharp response of ours and the continued opposition of cuts to social transfers has been something that would have worked; and we will prevent people with disabilities and pensioners from taking away these €35 million. I'm not sure that's going to work, because if the government decides to do something with its voting machine in Parliament, it will. But with insistence, with public support, we may be able to stop such antisocial policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Tillen Bozič, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I'd like to give just one explanation about one indicator, which I think is important for me to explain a little bit. This is because I feel that our awareness and awareness of the public is very important when we start dealing with statistics, that we know what the indicator means. One of these issues is also, we can say, the degree of risk of poverty; what is the proportion of those below what is the limit considered to be poverty. Here I would point out that this is a relative indicator with very interesting implications. If we look at the Slovenian scale, you have already told us how many percent, what is the risk, who is worse than us at the risk of poverty. These are Austria, Hungary, Belgium, Great Britain, Cyprus, Sweden, Malta, Luxembourg, Germany, Ireland, Poland, Portugal, Croatia, Italy, Greece, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Spain, Bulgaria, Romania. In the euro area, this rate is higher, it is also higher in the EU 28, says all members, the level of poverty risk is higher than in Slovenia. From here on into the social policy of the Republic of Slovenia. You may recall one of the reports prepared by the OECD at the time, which dealt with how to restructure the revenue part of the budget. Among other things, there was one interesting thing: a nice graph is in there saying two things: what is Gini's coefficient is called inequality within society, before transfers and after transfers. It was found that Slovenia is one of the best in designing or transferring effectively in a way that improves people in the final stage. And there they also told us – interesting for the OECD – to keep this system or upgrade it. With upgrades or how to upgrade it, we're actually working at the Ministry. We have set out certain ideas on how we would like this system to look in the future. I understand, however, that you do not almost trust us to have a basis for this, as far as certain calculations are concerned, understanding; and that we are working all the time in a circle or assembly, which is also set up by the budget cut. Because we have to stick to this in the final stage, even if it is 100, 150 million euros more, okay, we have to spend so much more; but in principle we also have to stick to these gabarits. In addition, it is 60% of the median equivalent available income as regards how this poverty risk ratio is calculated. That's very professional. But why is he going? You take the income of a family, by taxes, look at the social transfers, put it all together and figure out what the distribution is, draw it, and say, "Those who are up to 60 are poor, those who are above are not poor. And then we get to the next situation that affects this coefficient. And that's exactly why I want to explain it. If I were to be told that now – all those above the average wage – we would cut the income by 25%; and those with low income would leave the same income. This coefficient would show that we have significantly improved the situation of Slovenia and that poverty has fallen; this is absurd. And there's a lot of this when we talk about what it's affecting. You could also say: let's leave the situation as it is, all those who are above 60% of this median leave them the same income; and all those who are below, we say – you do not get any transfer anymore. In fact, this graph would not have suffered a major change, which means that statistics should be cautious. As you use it, as well as when used by the government, because it does not necessarily mean that it is an improvement. There may be some changes within the cohorts that lead to apparent improvement. However, improvements are not because of what I have already said, but I will not list all countries again, they are worse than we are, as we say: Austria, Belgium, Sweden, Luxembourg, Germany, Ireland and so on, indicating somehow that the indicator is probably relative. But when we talk about people, it's not about relative indicators, it's about the real situation; how much such a person or a family has at the end of the month in the transaction account or how much they actually received, how much net income is available. And that's basically the key to it. The aim of the Ministry of Labour is to improve the net available income for all, which consists of a combination, as stated, of the income from work, of certain transfers and so on. It is said to be a broader view of some reasonable action in this direction. I would point out once again that if we spend more, it is difficult to justify the actual cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Maybe, my friend Christmas, we didn't get along. Your statistics are already accurate, the problem is that they are not too relevant. It may also be eloquent that when we talk about the threshold of poverty, you compare yourself with the worst, rather than comparing yourself with the better. Maybe it was such a Freudian slip. Why do I replicate, but this is what I'm talking about. I asked you two very specific, very simple things, one procedural, one substantive. Content: What are the financial consequences of this law? You yourself say that what you wrote in marriage is not true; yet today you are breaking this law through the State Assembly without any significant, in law-wrong numbers. What are the consequences for the state budget? Or at the plant – the consequences for the amount of family benefits and social transfers, therefore, was a simple question. Next question: If you do not have these financial consequences, if they are not recorded in the law, why the hell do you put such a law on your nose through the National Assembly. This is contrary to all the procedural requirements you impose on all opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you. As far as the relevance of statistics is concerned, I was essentially referring to your explanation of the amendment. You've chosen such vats and statistics. I don't know why you decided it was relevant; and why you're telling me it's irrelevant now. This approach is still a little awkward. If I list the countries in the other direction, we won't go one way. They are better than us: France, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Denmark and Finland, which means that the species on this right side of the axis is significantly shorter than on the left side of the axis. As I explained earlier, and I will explain again, we, through the Government, submitted this law, which came to the National Assembly. At that time, a certain timetable was envisaged, a certain urgency procedure was proposed and financial implications were prepared. Once the law is in the National Assembly, it's out of our hands, we can defend it, but of course it's up to the Members what you're going to do with it. Regardless of everything, we estimate that the proposal is reasonable, because one of those objectives that we set ourselves to limit slightly is not to cut, but to maintain transfers at that level, at least as far as the individual level is concerned, has not been achieved. There has been an increase of 2.4%, at the annual level in relation to the implementation of the law, which means about 30 million euros more, resulting from about 1.3 billion transfers times 2.4%. For the longer term, if we look at annual inflation or semi-annual inflation, this is where the breakup occurs mainly in how fast harmonisation takes place. Instead of the harmonisation taking place on the basis of the first half of the year in July, it occurs essentially on the basis of both half of the year in March of the year following. According to past history, as it is said, if we had twice an annual coordination, this would basically mean the first half of this year's rise, and for the next half of the year it is likely that these transfers will be reduced, and again the increase and again the reduction. In view of the data I have also told you, eight times in the last eleven years inflation has been negative, which would mean a reduction in transfers. On average, however, since annual inflation is usually positive, it will not lead to a decline, but usually to an upturn with a slight delay; two things need to be taken into account. First of all, we've already mentioned money social assistance, which has grown by 35% in a very short time, hasn't worked or looked at inflation or anything else. In the meantime, if we only look at indexation, the indexation was frozen and then this year, if I speak to you, it defrosted; this is why the indexation occurred. As it is said, the aim of this law on the coordination of transfers is to actually coordinate; or if we say so by taking into account that prices are rising. And based on annual inflation, indexation occurs, which means that this amount is adjusted in terms of purchasing power to what happened before inflation occurred. We estimate that's reasonable. We estimate that it is also reasonable that this does not happen twice a year, that it is more transparent, that the costs of IT services and similar matters in this country are lower, that we strive for some simplification, efficiency of the system. On the other hand, we are working to give more time to the people involved, saying, I am talking mainly about social work centres, I am also talking about the Employment Institute and others, that they actually prefer to spend their time on what they are also there for, and in the past it has been neglected enough to actually talk to people, look for solutions together, they are in personal contact with them, not to deal with them only through computer monitors. And that's what's actually going to lead to, within a reasonable period of time, that maybe they're going to find better solutions with them from the spirals they're in. This, in the long run, presents a better perspective than that there is only one number in the computer that we pretend that it is not just in a way that we spend some money a month for this purpose. They need to be dealt with, help them get a job, get a job, if they don't have a job, help them in other ways, but our common goal is to make everyone feel better eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Secretary of State talks a lot, but he says a little bit. It is less said, and then there are specific assessments of the financial consequences or effects of this law. It is true that we are in a somewhat awkward situation. The law came to the attention of the National Assembly, it had a misleading assessment of the financial consequences, and then it was found during the examination that the law, according to the representatives of the Ministry who prepared the law, did not have an assessment of the financial consequences or that what was misled was irrelevant. In accordance with the third subparagraph of the third paragraph of Article 115a of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that you chair that you find that this law does not have the conditions of procedure met, followed by a 15-day period within which the drafter may complete his proposal. It is true that, in principle, these things must happen before the document comes into consideration at all, but now that we have already found in the middle of the hearing that we are unhappy, after poor information, misinformation, error on the part of the Ministry of Labour's proposal to deal with the law without the relevant financial consequences. Presidents, in short, I propose that you stop considering this until the conditions under which this law should be dealt with at the start have been met have not been assessed in terms of the financial implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We will continue the debate. The postponement of the law – the President of the National Assembly is the one who places the items on the agenda. Points shall be placed on the agenda if they meet the business conditions. You've been to college, there would be an easy way of alerting you to this problem. But now that we have come so far, there is no way that we can break this point in any way or withdraw it because there are no valid reasons. Here you go, Mr. Kordish, re-procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. I insist on my proposal. But only so far as we are aware that this law does not really have an assessment of the financial implications for the time when the proposal was put on the agenda for consideration at this mid-session would have been highlighted at the College of the President of the National Assembly. But then we heard here from the Secretary of State that he had come, saying that the financial consequences he had mentioned did not really hold. Given that little water has passed since the same ministry and the same person on television, on the websites has lied smoothly that the amount of social assistance plus the supplement for the work activity is 91% of the minimum wage, and we got it on the lie, you can understand that our stimulation, why we want to accurately assess the financial consequences of this law, which will be known to the pockets of the poor, is both emotional and rational. It is motivated by social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u91	Mr Kordish, if you know, every law has an assessment of the financial consequences, not the exact financial consequences. Because the exact financial consequences are only possible after the law has been implemented. It's just an evaluation. This is how the government assessed it. She introduced the law. No one objected. We are now at this stage of the hearing, and I propose that we proceed with the debate. Mr. Željko Ciegler is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President, I would like to remind you of the dialogues in this House when there are proposals for amendments to the laws and in many cases the Government challenges or the representatives of the Government of these laws in such a way as to say that there are no foreseeable or precise financial implications. Some of these laws have been proposed and advocated by you. That's just for starters. Secondly, I'd like to say that we have to put this law in space and time. That's what I'll do later. I must say that when we talk about numbers, there are more poor than there were under the threshold of poverty in Slovenia at the moment, than there were before the crisis that started in 2008. When the Secretary of State says that the number of financial social assistance is over 90 000, and when he says how social transfers are growing, we still have to ask ourselves here. In the Republic of Slovenia, poverty is a serious problem. And even though we have increased exports, the strong growth of gross social product, one of the largest in Europe, poverty in this country is growing. Or as a colleague on the other hand said nicely, Mrs Dimičeva, we have poor employees, poor pensioners, young people going abroad, and I say, and students are sleeping in front of parliament. It's a state of, at the moment, social. And we are now bringing this bill into this state of affairs. That is how this Parliament happened in 2012, because an anti-social revolution had taken place, and something like this is now about to happen. We cannot reach people in Slovenia who do not have anything to put in their mouth by the end of the month or pay their bills or students cannot come to the room because it is too expensive and they do not get scholarships, we cannot tell them, under the threshold of poverty in Denmark, Austria, Luxembourg lives more people than in Slovenia. Dear Secretary of State Tillen Christmas, this cannot be eaten, this cannot be a state social policy. That government that runs this kind of policy is actually red. But in the face. For the shame, for the social policy he's implementing. But now I want to make one point concrete when I say, in time and space, let's put this. That's what I'd say. Left here isn't double-faced. We stand for our views without arguing how the social situation is getting worse, but we will support this government's action, which will save something at the expense of the worse social situation, I don't know, for tax reliefs to the richest, Mrs Dimič. There is no duplicity here, so I suggest you reconsider when voting on this law. I would now like to recall – and this is a broader context – when we proposed in Levica the abolition of supplementary health insurance, I must say that all the interlocutors who came from the coalition, including those who consider themselves left, have come, but the economy is cooling down and this is known in reducing exports and this will be known in reducing production in Slovenia. True, they're right, but the other side of the medal has to be said. This cooling of the economy will be known through the dismissal of workers, through the growth of unemployment, through the reduction of wages, with the cost of living rising. Take a look at the supplementary health insurance, and this year it went up by €5. And at this time, this is the time context, respected Secretary of State Tilen Bozič, in this context, when we can expect a clear increase in social and poverty problems in Slovenia, which will increase to 280 000, the government will come with a law where it will reduce funds for social transfers and to alleviate the social crisis. At the same time, he does not want to hear anything about the profit previously mentioned by Comrade Micah, 4.2 billion, but to be taxed a little bit more to get the state's resources for its functioning, because we have one of the lowest in Europe, since we are already almost tax oasis. In doing so, a change in income legislation is being prepared, where tax reliefs will continue to be reduced for those with the highest income. Lawyer Andraz Teršek asked former Minister Kopacheva, who was also involved in social reform 2012, and we know what happened there: Is not poverty against the law in Slovenia? Article 2 of the Constitution states: “Slovenia is a social state.” And you can't justify giving social benefits even less with this proposed government law, but when poverty in this country is higher than it was before the crisis or rising, it will be even stronger in the cold economy. More needs to be looked at in this direction, where we can get the money to ensure that the social situation in our country is sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. State Secretary Tillen Christmas has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u94	Just a few things I'd like to explain a little bit. We're not cutting social funds. That's the first thing you see from cuttings that these funds are increasing. However, they increase asymmetrically inside and print out some others. The second thing to say, and I'm going to say it again, when we were down there, was 60 to 65 thousand recipients of cash social assistance. Now there are over 90,000 of them, with a significantly higher income. We're actually in the conjuncture phase right now, still. And at that time, unlike some partial view that somehow looks at it, let's just look at the income side of someone and raise them there, we also deal with the expenditure side of those who receive these transfers, because in the long run, if you get 400 euros a month and you have 800 or 700 euros a month, you won't survive. It's so simple. That is why we have also tried to provide certain means to establish an infrastructure that is crucial for people to survive when economic downturn occurs. We're talking about retirement homes, dormitory for students, housing for young people. If, in the largest economic activity that we have received at the highest level of gross social product at any time in history, at one of the largest jobs, we are only dealing with putting as much on the transfer as possible on a monthly basis, but we are not careful that pensioners will have to date those pensions or those transfers that can be significantly lower in recession without allowing them to have better conditions at that time, it is said that they will be able to go to a decent home for pensioners who will have a normal price and a solid service to be a solid network of services. We are also talking here about long-term care and other measures. We are also talking about students being able to go to a college home at a reasonable price, and we are talking about young people being able to get to an apartment at a reasonable price. It is not only re-analysis of transfers, therefore, but also the establishment of a nuclear infrastructure that will enable people to survive better in the long run. It would be economical to say that we're providing them with some kind of rent. That is, because he may have a non-profit apartment and will live in it for 20 years, he will be able to have 200, 300, 400 euros each month for his family. That means something. And it must be borne in mind that the economy does move in cycles. We can give now. The question is whether we can redistribute these funds in a way that we can place them or use them in a way that will improve people’s living conditions in the long run. And you find out for yourself, we're running out of dormitories, we're running out of homes for the elderly, we're running out of apartments for the young. But with the current volume of resources that we have, which are the highest historical, both in terms of the state budget and in terms of the Ministry of Labour, that we are not able to ensure this because we are always dealing with these tensions, whether it is correct in this or in that direction, without looking at perhaps a wider picture and what it means in the long run, it is difficult to work. And in particular, for this proposal, as on the table, I repeat, it does not bring cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. We may not understand each other well or Mr Christmas from the Ministry of Labour deserves an Oscar in the main role of depicting cuts in social transfers as something socially advanced. See, you explain how social services and services in other support systems in society are being auctioned, such as homes for the elderly. But what are you doing? You're cutting up a security supplement. Who? Poor pensioners who already have such a hard time affording anything. Cut the protective supplement to the disabled. You cut the allowance for work activity to those who are already working, and their wages are not high enough to come over the censorship, beyond the threshold of poverty risk. That's what you do. And then every time you sign up for the word, you talk about everything else, but you don't talk about this very basic basic problem. And even so you hope to say, yes, look, because the threshold of risk or poor and recipients during the crisis was less than in the konjunkture. We're dealing with everything else. I mean, yeah, he was a little less. But why? Because the state has let them down. That's why they don't show up on statistical radars.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Member Mojca Žnidarič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Of course, I cannot support the amendments of the Left, because then it would make no sense to change the law. Why is that? We have heard many times today that the risk of poverty in Slovenia is 13.3%. Of course, we all want it to be lower, and we are working for it, and it has been lower in recent years. However, to be 6.7%, as predicted or written in this amendment to the Left, it is almost unrealistic to expect. At least in some foreseeable short time, it is unrealistic to halve the risk of poverty. Even if we look at little data across other countries of the European Union, some of them have already been counted by the Secretary of State, there are already many behind us, and in fact no European country has such a low legal level of risk of poverty and it is unrealistic to expect that. It is said that this coordination would then never occur once a year as foreseen by the law. Data also show that the level of risk of poverty is decreasing for employees and self-employed persons. I think it's the right way to reduce poverty at the expense of employment and not the social transfer account. The basic law, as I have already said today, which was adopted in 2006, entered into force with 1. 1. 2007 has already determined once a year the coordination of transfers. Then, in 2008, with the amendment mentioned above, which had already been read on the committee, it was accepted to coordinate twice a year, but the amendment said at the time, "due to relatively high inflation". This was the beginning and this was also the main goal. Therefore, due to relatively high inflation, they agreed, in the interim period, that this coordination would be twice a year. We don't have relatively high inflation right now. As the Secretary of State has already pointed out, it is usually higher in the first half of the year, lower in the second half of the year or even less, so it is right to coordinate transfers once a year. It makes no sense for us to rise in the first half of the year and then fall in the second half of the year. Since you keep on saving us, I cannot agree with this, for with 1. This year, 1st year, as I have already said, all austerity measures have been abolished. On 1 February, income thresholds also rose, then, as it was said, from 1. 7. already indexed transfers by 2.4%. As I said in my position, 40% were more allocated to social security transfers. Then I don't see any savings here. 1.25 billion euros will be allocated for all transfers to individuals and households this year. In my position, however, I also stressed the objective of this legislation – uniform coordination and transparency. There is no way that I agree, as has been said, that the service and assistance allowance are now different if they are paid under the law of the ZPIZ or military legislation because they have been co-ordinated differently. So, this is the purpose of all transfers being coordinated in a uniform manner. The aim is also to debirocraticize certain things. We have 34 of these different transfers, it has been said, are paid out of various cash registers, budgets, both state, municipal, cash register ZZZS, and the most important is to coordinate in a uniform manner. Students were mentioned in various discussions. Yes, it is true, there are problems with getting rooms, even at the beginning of the year, but it was not said that 8 thousand 500 scholarships were paid this year when the censorship rose by January. In the position of one of the parliamentary groups, it was said that we would save on the recipients of monetary compensation. In preparing the law, the amendments to the ZUTD, i.e. the Labour Market Regulation Act, it is envisaged that the monetary compensation will be raised and that no more financial compensation for unemployment will be lower than financial social assistance. That's the big step. I don't think there's any way to save money on the recipients. After all, once again, there is no way we can agree that this is about saving. All the data show that it is not about saving, and that is why, of course, I will support the law, not the amendment, because it is about de-de-irocracy, transparency, transparency and justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Come on, Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd answer to a colleague that I believe was misunderstood by our first intervention. It all shows that we do not speak the same language when we talk about the social state. If we have 13.3 percent statistics, which is 280 thousand people below the poverty line, and if we halve it to 6.7 and 23 000, flat, children, I wonder why we wouldn't want the social state as a whole to be a social state. What is the difference between the non-social state, which tolerates 140,000 hungry, and does not tolerate 280 thousand hungry. From the eyes of a personal story on the outside of statistics, this thing is exactly the same, irrelevant. In addition, in calculating the level of risk of poverty or the mass of people falling under it if the income we take from the calculation would not count social transfers, the rate of poverty would be significantly higher – 23%. If they did not include pensions, they would be 40 percent. Dear colleague, we obviously don't understand the definition of a social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's true, obviously we don't understand each other, we don't speak the same language. The amendment we made in Levica is, indeed, linked to when the law enters into force, that is, when the poverty risk threshold falls or the number of people below the poverty risk threshold to 6.7%, technically. Politically, this amendment is intended to block the introduction of this harmful anti-social law, which abolishes twice a year the coordination of social transfers and family benefits with the rise in living costs and puts it on a once-a-year basis. In this way, of course, he wants to save on these transfers, i.e. to save on the level. And then you go on, colleague, by wanting less poverty. I obviously don't want any less poverty, unless you can explain to me how your laws, the proposals that rumble on social transfers, foresee positive budgetary implications. How come they're not saving? Yeah, what do you do when you're snorting through social media and expecting positive effects on the budget? Yes, you do, on the poor, you do, of course, and on scholarships and on the disabled. Even when you say you want to reduce poverty at the expense of employment, you're actually lying. What are you doing by abolishing the workload allowance? You take the poor, the employees, those who are already working, and their wages, their benefits are not high enough to bring them through censorship. And these people would already like to have a fair pay for honest work, full employment and so on, but they can't get to it anymore and they're doing what they do, and so the country comes in with this supplement for work activity, and the single mothers draw an additional 200 euros a month to work on it, so that they can almost get through it over a month. And then you continue to think that you want to reduce poverty at the expense of employment, not at the expense of everyone else. Bang, your second action, 35-millionth incision in a protective supplement that will hit – who? Poor pensioners and disabled people. And you lied the second time in one sentence. And, of course, I'm suspicious of all the predictions, what and how money will be raised for unemployment and so on. This is the type of situation: sparrow in hand, pigeon on the roof. What you're doing today – you're not giving, you're cutting today. In this case, coordination of social transfers is also cut in the case of unemployment benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u103	Mr. Kordish, time for the replica is up. Mr. Perich, you raised your hand earlier. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I have a procedure. I listened very carefully to the implementation of Mojce's colleague, but she did not mention either Mr Siter or Mr Kordish anywhere, so we do not know where these replicas come from. I feel like it's losing all meaning. I would like to ask, Mr Vice-President, that you are helping our colleagues a little, because they seem to understand the process a little bit in their own way and, obviously, the content of today's debate is also becoming appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I'll answer first. Both Mr Siter and Mr Kordish said, in fact, that they did not understand each other in their interpretation of the debate. So in this sense, I don't see any particular dilemma with regard to the replica. Because it was about explaining different opinions or misunderstandings. Mr Dušan Šiško has a procedural status now. Do you, do you give up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you, Chairman. I would say, let's focus on the agenda item, on the amendment, to talk about the number that's written in the amendment, but not on the 30 million, but to talk about the budget right now. We haven't seen him. So I would ask and thank God, because I see the time of the Left, they still have a very short time to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The last reported debater in this round is Jani Ivanúša. Ivanusha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u108	Ivánusha, yes, thank you for the correction. When I listen to all these replicas, especially this one and that one, I have the feeling that the Left has only tabled an amendment so that she can debate today. That's how I feel. Another reason I haven't seen today and as far as I've heard from the coalition that this amendment isn't real. I guess that's all it's about. But I did, because I don't think they're the only ones who're gonna say anything else. From the left of my mouth, I have initially heard that what this coalition is, what it has signed, of course, this agreement of theirs, who is not sticking to it the most and whether it is sticking to it, is now the matter of the treaty itself between them. I don't know that's what they're talking about. Mostly, so much for that. As for the Labour and Family Committee, because I was on the Committee last time, I went, but I did attend the Committee, and I also discussed something there, about which they also talked about abolishing the work activity. This is one of the measures that will be reduced, of course, if adopted. From what I hear, this board meeting has even been suspended. 16 million euros – what is the matter with work activities? I've even been fixed up to be a cash social worker. It used to be, as far as I know, legalized, 392,75, now it's 402,28. What's going on? It's just that the work activity allowance has been misused, and we can see that there's a lot of abuse here. These people who get 402 euros, now according to the new ones, have been abused or not, I don't know, it's hard to determine, but they're mostly. But through voluntary companies, they arranged a certificate and then received additional funds. And then one person comes to 600 — ordinary people don’t know what it is — 607 euros gets one person who actually gets a certificate through an acquaintance. Then this socialist, I'd say, is a mockery of the one who works for 580 euros. At the armistice end, the state has to add to it that it can get 650 minimum wages. In mocking those pensioners who receive 240 euros, I am talking more about farm pensions, which have also contributed to the cash registers all these years, in a mockery of all those who simply do not find one. This is an abuse of this activity allowance. Today's talk about this being coordinated once a year, that's savings of 6 million. I don't know why this is such a debate. Mainly, it is right that the country has begun to work in order. To keep order and not to save, as we have heard today. Mr. Kordish said, but 43 million will be donated to the army. Yeah, there's nothing going on in this country. Everything's legal, no one's ever given a gift. For 10 years, the army was fed. If we want to have this country, who will defend us? I'm afraid you and the Left will be a little less when you have to be held for weapons. We need an army. And we must also have it equipped, modern. If he hadn't had Madura's army, he wouldn't be there anymore, he'd have been blown off in Venezuela by now. But that's how it is. That's what I'm trying to say. The labour market is completely devalued. Social. In Austria, for example, a man receives a thousand 200 euros in financial social assistance. But he goes to work three times, the one who gives him, tells him to work with the farmer once, to work with the third worker and for the third time there. The third time that the job is rejected, social assistance is no longer available in Austria, at least not for those who refuse or simply do not respond. And here we are talking, young people don't want to work for us. Who's gonna work? He's not crazy for 600 euros if he gets it like that. [[Finger-toed clap]] From the state, there's a little bit of a weekend going on and it's already far above what's the average Slovenian salary. The Secretary of State said well, we had 60,000 recipients in the crisis, but today, when there is economic growth, we have 90,000, some over 90,000. Yeah, where did we come from? Nobody wants to work in our country anymore. For me, it's a shame. It is good that Mrs Žnidaričova said that I spoke in my position earlier about 30 transfers, exactly 34 of them. We, the opposition, cannot find the data exactly where they are. Mr. Kordish always speaks, a single wife. Yeah, okay, but I believe I also told the board that if I were to remain a single single woman, I don't think that would be a measure that would shrink. I'd say that's pretty much how you'd stay. But because it was an abuse, because unfortunately it's a lack of control, it's happening. And I believe, too, that it is possible that the social work centre will find a replacement measure or transfer, that this woman who is deprived of this supplement, in order to receive another transfer, I am sure that this is absolutely possible. I have to say again, on the Committee I have invited Levico, and today I also invite them to provide me with information on how many members of the Left have companies, businesses, espouses, how much they work and how much they contribute to this Slovenian cash register, so that they can always make such a vehement decision about how much someone gets. I'd be terribly happy to have that information. I'd say to Mr. Bricker that poverty rises because of too much socialism. That's a problem for you. And to Mr Siter – every country has a social policy, far from that, only in our own simply too many sloths have arisen. I hope you understand what I'm saying. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much. First, a replica of Primaj Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I don't know if I'd put that in the category of a replica or a procedural proposal. Mr Member of the Slovenian National Party, his debate was extremely irrelevant to me and I would warn you, the President, that you will give him a warning, especially in the work that the capture of weapons takes as an indisputable fact that will happen. It's no different than scolding for violence. In his debate, there was one list of facts which were very marginal, non-real and which we could have looked into even before the policies we talked about today were discussed on the working body. In short, the arms section does not, in any case, belong to the National Assembly, which dictates public discourse from here on out. Please, President, this is my procedural proposal to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. His debate did not deviate significantly from the quality of the other debates. You've gone to some other area with your argument. The replica of Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, chairman. I need to respond. First time there's talk of abuse. See, 300 editors at the Ministry of Labour were able to say in response to our parliamentary question that they do not record any abuses and omissions of public funds for abuse. But here a fellow from the Slovenian National Party, of course, symptomatically can't say any number, here something lies together some anecdotes, is obviously smarter than all the centres for social work that have hunters around the community in our country, on the big and wide talk about some abuses, substantiating it with nothing, it sounds to me just like being in a position [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u113	Mr Kordish, this is not the subject of a replica, this is in the category of Member's discreditation. That's not the purpose of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u114	Another time. I'm responding to this because I've been discredited. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u115	It's not a replica. It's just a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u116	I've been told that I'm challenging the fact that 43 million is the Slovenian Army. [[…]] I didn't say that. I said that it is a big problem that the budget spends poor EUR 100 million on NATO. But here's the problem, and my words are turning around. And, buddy, you can be sure, in Levica we're not going to grab weapons to protect your privileged asses, certainly not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much, it wasn't nice, but [[…]] Anybody else want to discuss this? There's no replica to the replica. Anybody else want to discuss this? Okay, I'm opening an application for discussion. One reported. Mr. Doblekar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say, when I hear this in here in the National Assembly, I don't know where I am. Whether I'm in the National Assembly, whether I'm at a party meeting, or I'm at some kind of protest, or I'm at some historic symposium. In short, whenever a discussion is open about financial transfers, about whether we will work in the country to encourage work or encourage work, there will be some serious conflicts. After all, it is very nice to speak, but without having anything to do with the thoughts of the Members of the Left or of any other party, each one has his or her own ability to think, each one can say in his or her own way, but every time we come to this subject, we begin to talk and inspire this poverty, how bad it is for all of us, how we all suffer and how no one works and how the other fasts work and how one needs to be picked up and how one has to be given. I think we're too flat-headed to think too hard with some sober head. Rare are Members who think and say what they really are. I wouldn't make some populism stories out of this topic. I usually also try, and I want to be as realistic as possible and as realistic as possible, to see life as it really is everywhere. Let us ask ourselves why there is always so much debate about this poverty, how much we will add to it because it does not. Everything is understandable, we understand everything. Even in my family, with my relatives there are no rich people, there are poor people, but humble and honest and, of course, very busy. And not just me, but somewhere else. We can see a lot of things on our own, and we hear a lot about how different things are in the field, who gets social support, why they get social support, what with this social support work, how much work is black, how many people go to work and go to work in the morning at five, six and work at eight hours, and they get less than those who have social support, how they have to go to work, and how they have to go to work before work, and they have to pay for it, and kindergarten also pay, go to work, and then go home and get the kids and keep working at home, and work at home, and live modestly. Some again at seven o’clock, eight o’clock in the morning get up, take their children to kindergarten, take a little rest in a coffee shop, and get a little puff at the end of the morning more than those who go to work and do fine work. I think we should talk a lot more about work, about incentives for work, about how to prepare people to work to earn money, so that they can think as little about some social transfers as possible. But to help those who are not found, those who are hard to get a job, those who do not know how to get to work. I know that the centres for social work are trying to work for employment institutions, that we Members are trying to work for the government, the secretary of state, the ministers, I know that we are all trying, but we could do even more. We could all do more to encourage work, not work. And we've talked about this a lot. Poverty. Permanent poverty, poverty, poverty, poverty. We're listening to this all the time. It's poverty, because I'm not saying it isn't, but, hell, poverty has been with us since the collapse of the former countries, and from the beginning to the second world war all the time. It's poverty all the time. It's poverty all the time. Money, billions went out. It's poverty, socialism has done its part, I'm afraid. We know how it lived, we know how it worked with craftsmen, entrepreneurs, we know what kind of life we had, we know how we credited ourselves, how money came from abroad to us, and what we did for that money, and what Titus's bunkers did, and I don't know what it was, there was an unlimited amount of money invested in the army. And now what do we have from this army? It's just a mess. Empty apartments that no one uses are going to waste. Various shelters, which are pervaded, like us in Lithium, the doors bend, the water flows in, the space destroyed. That's where the money went. That's where the money went. Various bases falling in front of our eyes, and so on. A bunch of billions went out. As long as we've been social, we know, but all the time we've been talking about poverty since World War II, and they've been in the government all the time, except for those few years when the right government, the government of Janez Janša, has been in the government all the time. And don't get me wrong, I don't want anything against anyone, but I'll say it the way it is. And we all need to be aware of that, to be aware and to know what it was like. Since World War II, socialism and left-wing power have been both in socialism and later in independence. And now here to talk about some left-wing party or left-wing MP talking about poverty all the time, why poverty is, why it's so bad, why we suffer so much, I think it's a little funny. Literally funny. First of all, not you, because they ruled in front of you or even before me people who may not have been or have aged at all, but they were all left, left-wing, social-oriented, in the name of socialism and communism and all that, those covers, all that was, unfortunately, in this adulterous Slovenia that we have today as we have, they ruled. And now we keep hearing about poverty, about all the possible hardships of this world that have accumulated with us and not elsewhere. Not in Austria, but not in Italy, but in Germany, not in France, but in England, not in Western Europe. But we have all the same problems and problems all the time. I think we should learn a lot from the countries that have these problems with this socialism, and which some are still trying to promote and enact into the legislation of those stupid things that were then, let's look elsewhere and implement these things to us. Let's also try to follow this path once, a normal, smart path, like Austria. We talk all the time, in Austria they have pensions or social transfers so much higher. Of course they do, but there they normally did the story of the state and development and the sense of the pensioners and the social transfers and the workers and the wages and everything because they respected the work. And not only in Austria, but everywhere else, they respected the work, the entrepreneurs, the craftsmen, the farmers. Of course, they also helped those who did not. And the money that they squandered in different ways for pensioners is called pensions, for pensions, the money stayed there and they're getting it out today. And it's no problem. But we still have some problems. Where do we get the pension money? Where's he going? Will we even be able to pay as much as we get in the pension register? We know he runs out every year. Then we have health problems, and we have social problems, and we just keep listening and listening to how bad it is. We're trying to do something, and we just start talking about it again. So I hope and I want things to turn out better and that we are all here to make such things a better way for all of us to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have been misunderstood, obviously, that we have been exposed, that all poverty is due to socialism in us, and how we must look at another Western country in order to solve some of our problems. Okay, let's look at the leader of the so-called free world, the United States of America. 30 million people without health insurance are growing tents of homeless people because banks have thrown them out of their homes. You want to go to college, you want to get your education and your diploma, okay, you're just gonna stay in charge of your throat for the rest of your life. Nowhere is socialism, the purest form of capitalism, the largest social bomb in the Western world. And finally, given that we have had a self-governing socialist experiment in this area since 1945, given that this experiment has shown record levels of economic growth, poverty eradication, industrialisation, quality social services, you may wonder how in your two governments, which lasted five, six years, you have managed to make such a big deal of money that all these acquisitions of this terrible socialism have been destroyed virtually to the last stone.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Kordish. Mr. Primoz Siter, including the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Also for the implementation of Ambassador Doblekar. Since you have mentioned the Members with a left view, I suppose it was aimed at this side, and because I am sitting on the most left-hand side of the Tribune even more so. The debate on poverty, I must tell you, it was never populism. The debate about poverty, or if I use your vocabulary, poverty, you need to talk about things like that. Things like that are 280,000 love below the threshold of poverty. The debate on the situation as it is is the Boastvo on Val 202, I invite you to listen at some point. Now, something else about this public discourse that the poor are guilty because the worker is not valued, his work is not valued as it should be. Please, it's a smoke bomb blast so we don't talk about real problems, but they're miscalculations. And yet a brief conclusion on the subject of injustice that makes it a social order [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Time's up. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jani Ivanusha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u124	I'm going to be very brief, because there's not a replica on the replica, but I'm going to abuse this minute that I have, or these few seconds, I'm going to tell Mr. Kordish very briefly. I'd give you numbers, but you wouldn't understand them that way. That's one. Secondly, as far as privileged ass is concerned, you have a much more privileged ass when we have to hear you in procedural and debates a hundred times, and I don't know what all the lines are, so I'd rather do it another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I propose that we conclude these discussions slowly. Also through procedural proposals. Mr. Kordish, please, if we can finish these stories.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you. Take a look at such cases [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u127	You don't have a word. I suggested that we finish, so that we would not continue the meeting in this part further, because it will not be productive. [[advertising from the hall]] But I can give you a procedural proposal, because it's no problem. I suggest you don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u128	In fact, I agree with you, President, that is highly unproductive, but in such cases as has just happened, I would ask that you protect not only my own, even if another Member is in this situation, his or her integrity, because this has not gone anywhere. Perhaps the most eloquent part of the fact that Comrade Ivanus was trying to embroil himself with me when we were running out of time for a discussion in Levica, but he obviously did not collect this kind of fur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. In fact, in this debate, he used only your words, he did not add any more, even with regard to that rude term. Before I finish the point, I might have a sentence. At times, it was considered to be a work of honor and authority. Clearly, work is no longer honorable and powerful, but it is social transfers. And one thing, if you're already mentioning acquisitions, historical acquisitions, it's strange that just a few years after World War II, it went from a winning country to capitalism to almost a million people working. From Yugoslavia to Western Europe, a million people went to work with a stomach for bread, not for social transfers. I'm closing the debate and the amendment. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide tomorrow, 26 September 2019, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE LEGISLATION ON THE EQUAL CAPACITY OF WOMEN AND MEN IN THE FIELD OF THE MODERN PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Tiln Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u130	Dear President, honourable Members, welcome again! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men is prepared with a view to improving or achieving equal opportunities for women and men, or increasing the share of the under-represented sex in the composition of the working bodies of the Government and the authorities responsible for the administration and supervision of persons of public law, and appointing or proposing representatives and representatives of the self-government local community and the self-government national community to the authorities responsible for the administration and supervision of public law. This aims to strengthen gender balance in decision-making positions, which is the goal of international European and national policies to strengthen the role of women and gender equality in all areas of social life. The current law already in Article 14 obliges the Government to take into account the principle of gender balance in the composition of consultative and coordination bodies, other working bodies and delegations established under the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its Rules of Procedure, as well as in the appointment or proposal of representatives or representatives of the Government in public undertakings and other persons of public law, unless, of course, for objective reasons, this is not possible. Amendments to the law will also be made to respect the principle of gender balance by the self-governing local communities and the self-governance national community when appointing or proposing representatives and representatives to the public law authorities. In practice, for various objective reasons, it is not always possible to ensure the principle of gender balance, and the law also defines certain exceptions. The proposed amendments to the law will further strengthen commitments to achieve equality between women and men in society or to ensure a balanced representation of women and men in decision-making and decision-making, both at the level of the Government and the self-government local communities and the self-government national communities. At the Ministry, we estimate that this is an important, symbolic and practical measure, and, of course, we look forward to it very much. We are also looking forward to what has already been demonstrated on the committee which is responsible for this, that the support for this proposal has been very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Vojk Starović for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 11th regular session. 9. 2019 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made some comments to it. Her representative pointed out that the rules on the appointment and nomination of candidates were not supplemented by mechanisms to ensure their enforcement and that the consequences of their non-implementation were not regulated. Otherwise, the amendments tabled follow their comments. The Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons also gave its opinion, which supported the proposal of the law. The draft law was introduced by a representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The debate followed, mainly on the principle of gender balance, with a minimum of 40% of the representation of each sex. The latter will have to be taken into account when appointing and proposing representatives and representatives of the Government to the authorities of the administration and supervision of public authorities, and some exceptions to this principle are also specified in the amendment. In order to respect the principle, when appointing or proposing representatives and representatives of the local self-governing community to the authorities of the administration and supervision of public law, the self-governing local communities shall also be bound. Exceptions to this principle shall be determined. The Committee's amendment was also tabled by the Left Group, proposing a 50-50 balance of representation between women and men, in their view that the principle of equal representation would actually be realized by this introduction. The government would be the first to set an example in its conduct for other gender equality obligations. The proposal for an amendment to the Committee was not adopted at the end of the discussion. The Committee adopted amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus groups. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, after the vote on the amendments, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Primož Siter has the floor to present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the law is to improve the achievement of equal opportunities between women and men and to increase the share of the sub-represented, i.e. in most cases women's sex, in the composition of the working bodies of the Government and the ministries, in the administration and supervision of public law, and in the appointment or proposal of representatives and representatives of the local community to the authorities for the administration and supervision of public law. The proposer therefore amends and complements the existing Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in Parts relating to the composition of consultative and coordination bodies, working bodies and delegations at national and local level, at least 40% of the representation of one sex. In Levi, we assess that the proposaler's intention to promote, through legal regulation, the achievement of a balanced representation of women and men in the working bodies of the Government and ministries and in public law administration and supervision bodies and gender representation in local communities is an important step forward in efforts to promote the real equality of women and men and, as such, we support it. However, the proposal only partially solves the problems of gender imbalance, and its disadvantage is in particular that it introduces not the principle of parity representation, but a biased relationship of 40:60. We estimate that the proposal will be difficult, or only partially, to achieve the objective for which the law is being introduced. It continues to maintain sexual distinction or quota regime 40 : 60, and this relationship does not mean actual equal opportunities. There's no equation here. The difference is 20%. It would be appropriate to establish in the bill the balanced representation of women and men as a 50-50 ratio, the idea that these representations cannot be achieved, for example in the case of a small number of members or members of bodies, by stating that there is a 50-plus-one solution. Our concern is also that the law does not contain a mechanism to monitor the implementation of the provisions. It does not provide for penalties in the event of non-compliance with the provisions and laxly adds exceptions to the obligation to implement the principle of gender balance. The quotas are a temporary measure introduced by the Regulation in Slovenia in 2004. In 15 years, real gender equality should be better integrated into social practices and attitudes. But it's not like that. In Slovenian society, there is an extremely patriarchal mentality that does not move from a dead point. According to a survey by the European Commission for 2018, 55% of the population of Slovenia consider the most important role of women's care for home and family. As indicated by the weekly Mladina: “Women for stoves”. For example, Slovenia has 212 municipalities and only 16 municipalities. The issue of gender mainstreaming is a social issue. The company regulates the law. The legislator directly introduces the principle of inclusiveness by means of a legal apparatus, eliminating the stigmatisation and prejudice factor in the practice of sex and gender roles. This is called public-impact innovation. Progress is not expected without a thorough intervention of the legal regulation, one that will go towards real equality and gender equality. That is why we support the proposal in Levica, but it does not yet represent the objective achieved. It should serve as a temporary measure and as a step towards more stable and long-term changes in parity democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u136	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men gives rise to the application of the principle of gender balance, as it also obliges self-governing communities and the self-governance of the national community, at the level of at least 40% of the representation of one sex. The proposal also provides for and proposes options and exceptions, namely the appointment of only one representative or representative, and the appointment of three representatives, or where no other person is selected. Although some progress has been made in Slovenia in recent years in understanding the meanings of equal opportunities between women and men, things have gone in practice in another direction. Too often, there is still a lack of understanding among women who choose family and children. In New Slovenia, we would like to see our society truly become so democratic that we do not need such and similar laws. This would mean that men and women would be evaluated according to their competences, knowledge, expertise and abilities, especially in the light that the abilities of men and women are comparable. Statistics also show a gap, particularly in ensuring equal pay for comparable work. The gap between the remuneration received for the work of women and men is increasing. Most importantly, it is the information that we have been alerting in New Slovenia in recent years – job security, job security for women who choose motherhood and have no fixed-term contract. For the safety of the employment of young women who opt for children and motherhood, practically nothing has been done in recent years. The proposal, which was tabled several times by Nova Slovenije to regulate the status of young women in the same way as the status of older than 55 years of age and young people with first employment, did not come across the understanding of former Minister Anja Kopač Mrak. With such a poor demographic picture as we have in Slovenia, we would expect a more active family policy, greater engagement and the right measures, which the current government team unfortunately cannot implement. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the proposal in the light of the greater involvement of women in political and local action.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Ms Kociper will present the views of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! The equality of women and men has been set by our client, SAB, as a priority by one of its last programming congresses. We also now and always believe that equality between women and men is one of the main principles of modern democratic societies, while at the same time facing conditions for effective democracy and sustainable economic growth. It represents a fundamental element on which, irrespective of gender, they have equal rights and the possibility of participation in all areas of public and private life. In this way, men and women can develop their potential and contribute to broader social development. This consideration or reflection has long been present in Scandinavian countries, which in practice demonstrate that co-existence and equality between men and women is also possible in practice. Even more, some of the research done in that part of the world shows that even economic growth has been shown to be higher in cases where men and women are equally represented in all areas of life. In Slovenia, we are still witnessing the fact that women are still underrepresented in governance and leadership. As the Advocate for the principle of equality emphasises, this applies in particular to policy, economy and social power. We are talking about the so-called glass ceiling, which is already well - known in the world. Gender discrimination is one of the oldest and most common forms of discrimination that comes from sexual stereotypes and prejudices. The presentation of a woman in a leading position is in complete disharmony with the idea of a woman who is weak and needs to be protected and protected by a male economic guardian. Inequality also exists in Slovenia, especially in reality. We have already taken a number of steps in the area of equality, but in the SAB we also welcome the new law and measures in this direction. In doing so, we think it is crucial that these measures also come to life in practice. In doing so, we can only regret that we have not been able in the National Assembly to adopt the two proposed amendments of the Advocate who have proposed specific, purely direct sanctions for those who would not respect these new ones. In the SAB Group, we therefore advocate the view that all democratic societies should strive for gender equality. Once again in the opinion of the Advocate of Equality, we must ask ourselves as a society how it is possible for women in our society to represent half of the working population and are on average higher educated than men, while their representation in higher and decision-making positions is still below average in many cases. The issue of gender equality is in no way related to gender equality, as it occasionally occurs in public debates, but is directly linked to the issue of social justice and the equal enjoyment of social development. The role of the media should also be mentioned here. The latter bear great responsibility because they co-form public opinion by means of their day-to-day reports. Unfortunately, we also observe here that women and men are still receiving a different treatment. In the SAB, we will support the bill and continue to seek to upgrade its raid, as it were said, in the direction of concrete sanctions for those who violate the legal provisions. Finally, in Slovenia, hopefully, this change will allow for real gender balance both at governance level and at leadership level. The possible amendment of the Company Act, which is being pursued by our party, will certainly contribute to this. There has been a lot of talk about the so-called quotas, and perhaps this law can also be one of those that will pave the way for new steps in the economic field. With more women involved in all areas of life, as well as on the political floor, we will do much for society, and we can do much for women alone. I therefore hope that both Members of Parliament and Members of this call will convince further generations of women to support any change for the better and to persuade their craftsmen to participate actively in economic and political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present to us the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! For many years, the Republic of Slovenia has promoted a principle that does not allow for any form of discrimination. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia recognises equality between women and men, which is also a fundamental principle of democracy and respect for human rights. Our country is constantly working to achieve gender equality in all areas of social life. This is demonstrated through various international indicators that provide reliable comparisons and accurate assessments of where the greatest gender inequalities are across countries, as they show that Slovenia is placed among countries with a relatively high level of equality. Thus, it has been observed that the visibility and sensitivity of gender equality issues has increased considerably in recent years, and more statistics on the situation of women and men in various areas are available. We are also witnessing progress in some areas, both legislative and declaratory, as well as in practice. Of course, all of this brings us joy in the Desus Group. At the same time, we are aware that, as a result of this further activity in this area, which would improve the situation in the future, we should not put ourselves on the sidelines. According to known data, the same opportunities for women and men in some areas are still not sufficiently achieved. In particular, Member Desus is concerned about economic dependence in terms of the labour market and employment and, in this context, the coordination of professional and private life or family life, which continues to fall on women to a much greater extent. In the case of personal income, women are still not at the same level as men employed. The latter is also reflected in pensions. Of course, regardless of this interlocutor in our parliamentary group, we unanimously support this time the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. We welcome the upcoming amendment of the law, since it means an additional one in a series of measures that Slovenia is trying to implement with a view to achieving the highest possible equality and not least equality between women and men, or vice versa. This time, the content of the action to achieve social equality concerns the issue of equal representation in the composition of government and local consultative, coordinating and other bodies, as well as representation in public law authorities. It is true that in practice balanced representation is not always possible and there are also exceptions to the general rules at the legal level in this novel. The new law will be welcomed by the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present to us the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u142	Nice hello to you all! The population of Slovenia on 1 January 2019 consisted of 1 million 38 thousand 665 men and 1 million 42 thousand 252 women. In the Republic of Slovenia, the principle of equality before the law is enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The main purpose of the Resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men 2015-2020 is to reduce gender inequality in eight priority areas, including on equal economic independence and violence against women. We do not agree that there is a need to increase the proportion of the under-represented sex in government bodies and in public law and to increase the participation of women in decision-making in educational, scientific, higher education, cultural, media, sports and other organisations. The situation in society de facto shows the low representation of women in decision-making places with greater power or the functioning of administrative and supervisory committees. This is a very hot topic. That is why we have also addressed a question to the Minister of Justice in the Slovenian National Party's Parliament concerning the representation of women in the judiciary. And look at the fraction, the judges are slightly less than 80%, the majority are at all first and second stages of court, and the Supreme Court has a majority, the primate male – 59.4%. The fact is that professions that feminize in a patriarchal society begin to lose their reputation, their power, their status. If we look around a little bit, there's a large percentage of women in the jobs of educators, babysitters, social workers, teachers. We are not quite sure that the balanced number of men and women is good for both professions in general, for example, that a person feels better in a mixed society or a working group. The quotas are only one way to balance sexual structures. We also find it wrong to encourage men for various phenymized shelves, such as a hairdresser, a chef, even though we know that under their hands they produce the best masterpieces. In our Slovenia we have many unnecessary bodies, including the Advocate of the principle of equality, because we all know that theory is one thing, practice is something completely different. The amendment of the law is intended to strengthen commitments for the balanced representation of women and men in the design and decision-making of government, local self-government and national self-government communities. This means at least 40% representation of each sex. Why some, if they can be in certain jobs alone or in most women or men? So, as far as heart surgery is concerned, 40% of women are supposed to be satisfied with the law. I wonder if they'll operate on nurses or anyone else. If it were hypothetically so much in the lower jobs that painting works should be performed by women in certain percentages, construction companies or companies would shut down or hire students. We can only dream about gender equality. Sexual discrimination will not be prevented or eliminated; it can only be godly desires. You know, not long ago, it was decided that they would be politically exposed. This was seen not long ago when no woman wanted to join the Governing Council. That's what we got the explanation for. Here in the National Assembly, you made a political decision on quotas for women, that's one big joke. Let the women decide for themselves, and let the men decide for themselves. We will not support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party in the Parliamentary Group because we believe that more important knowledge, experience, quality of work and not the sex quota are expressed as a percentage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present to us the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Hello, representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! On the table, we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. European and global gender equality indices measure gender equality in the fields of work, knowledge, health, money, political power and others. According to the above criteria, Slovenia is classified as a European and global intermediate country. If we ask our Slovenian women if they feel the same or if they have the same opportunities as men, they answer yes. Unfortunately, however, their interest in politics is at least half less for men than for men, leading and decisive jobs and functions across all statistics and surveys. There is also the question of why in modern democratic society we need some kind of compulsion to balance representation in the form of so-called quotas. We are all aware that sex in some areas of work has unequal representation, for example, women are more represented in the function of judges in Slovenian courts and in the Slovenian educational system, in health care. Men are more numerous in politics and as managers in the economy. Will we be able to maintain balanced representation in these areas at some point? If we want to be democratic, equal and just, of course, this would be desirable. With the proposal for a law, the Government thus pursues the objective of a more balanced representation of women and men, at least 40% of the representation of one sex in public law decision-making. Therefore, the principle of gender balance must be taken into account when proposing or appointing government representatives to management bodies such as supervisory councils of state-owned companies. Under Article 14 of the Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must also respect the principle of balanced representation in the composition of consultative and coordination bodies and other working bodies designated by it. It also transposes to the legal level part of the regulation on criteria for the application of the principle of gender balance, in a work defining exceptions to the principle of balanced representation. The proposed amendment to the principle of balanced representation of men and women also obliges the local self-government communities. From now on, these will be followed by balanced representation in the management and control bodies of public undertakings and persons governed by public law. The proposal was attended by public debates. The various groups of civil society and the Advocate for the principle of equality made their comments on the proposal. This is the view that in the future a similar quota system should be introduced for recruitment in private companies. Despite the fact that its purpose and objective should be to achieve greater gender equality, there is a sense that it is even more motivated to achieve more on women's representation. This hint is more than theoretically supported and encouraged by a woman's lobby and in practice it is difficult to survive. See, our hardworking, working and successful Slovene women do not need such a form of assistance, but some may even resent the activities described. What needs to be taken into account is a free economic initiative in economic societies and a ban on discrimination in recruitment and so on. Of course, we cannot agree with the possible continuation of the introduction of quotas into the economic sphere. The proposal for a law on equal opportunities for women and men was also addressed by the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disability Committee, where, as we have heard, it was supported and supported by the State Council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are aware of the importance of balanced representation in the public sphere both at the state and local level. Mixed business, project and other teams, in principle, achieve better results in different areas of life, so why not also in public law? However, the realisation of the desire for women and men to be balanced also in the role of managers in private companies and elsewhere is a long way from time to time. In most cases, owners and also supervisors of companies still rely on knowledge, experience, competences, personality cuts and references of candidates or candidates in effective recruitment. Good staffing means finding and selecting the most suitable and successful candidate, a candidate, so that the choice based on the proposed quota candidates can be very late and the result can also be questionable. Instead of a suitable candidate available, we will be looking for an alternate candidate or candidate based on quotas. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are increasingly European, because we will not oppose the amendment of the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in any way following the guidelines of the European Union, despite these concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present to us the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear government officials, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! In Article 14, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees all citizens equal human rights and fundamental freedoms regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, social situation or any other circumstance. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms also ensures the enjoyment of all rights laid down by law to all persons without distinction. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjana Sharca, we put human rights first and as responsible legislators we support any solution relating to the protection and respect of human rights. The principle of unity is also enshrined in a number of international instruments, together with ways to implement this principle, and is one of the fundamental principles of EU law. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, we have committed ourselves, together with coalition partners, to ensuring equal rights, equal opportunities and equality between women and men. We are pleased to accept today's amendment to the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men, and we believe that the proposed regulation will move forward towards achieving gender balance by increasing the share of one or the other in the composition of different working bodies. It's true that at this point a man is in charge, you have to admit it, but I'm sure we'll take this matter slowly. The amendment shall clearly define at least 40% of the gender representation in the composition of consultative and coordination bodies, working bodies and delegations established by law. This shall also apply to the appointment or nomination of representatives or representatives of the Government to the authorities responsible for the administration and supervision of public law. It is also important to highlight the exception regime when the principles of 40% of gender representation cannot be taken into account because of different circumstances. Furthermore, I would like to point out a new Article 30a, which, in order to respect the principle of gender balance, also obliges the local self-government communities and the national self-government community to appoint or propose representatives or representatives of the individual community to the authorities responsible for the administration and supervision of public law. The proposed bill was adopted without a vote on the parental committee. It was also supported by the Commission of the State Council and the Advocate for the principle of equality. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we therefore support the proposed regulation and we will also support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present to us the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, esteemed colleagues! Slovenia is ranked at the top on the basis of comparative data on gender equality at global level. Good indicators of equal opportunities for women and men are the result of decades of work and concrete action. Thus, with mandatory sex quotas for candidate lists for elections in Slovenia, we have achieved a greater participation of women in politics and have obtained much more gender-balanced representative bodies both at national and local level. We have also contributed to this by the Social Democrats. From the very beginning, we have been working towards gender equality and greater involvement of women in politics and leadership. Thus, we were one of the first parties to determine in the party's statute that the candidate lists for the elections should be sexually balanced, that is at least 40 per cent of the representation of one sex. The Women's Forum is also organised within our party, which actively pursues consistent respect for women and men's equality in public and private life. Despite the comparatively good results of Slovenia in this area, there is a risk that sensitivity to gender equality will be reduced due to a false sense of self-confidence. It is for this reason that self-awareness, in particular in the area of stereotyping and prejudice, needs to be further strengthened, and that the necessary measures be taken to better coordinate the professional and private life of both women and men. A serious problem is also the high level of risk to poverty between older women and sexual harassment. The amendment of the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men provides that the Government must respect the principle of gender balance, a minimum of 40 per cent of the representation of one sex in the composition of its working bodies and delegations and of the administrative and supervisory committees of public law persons. By this measure, we want to increase the representation of women in the legal and supervisory committees of public institutions, funds and state-owned enterprises at national and local level, as the latest statistics from September 2018 to April 2019 show that only 30% of women were represented on these committees on average. We are convinced that by law, sex quotas are an effective measure to achieve greater equality between women and men, as they achieve gender balance before we wait for sex stereotypes to change in our society. Changes in the balanced representation of women and men in the representations, administrative and supervisory bodies will not happen on their own; therefore, the Social Democrats support amendments to the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present to us the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Modern, open and liberal society, at all levels, specialises a widely accepted mentality that advocates and provides conditions for equal treatment of individual options regardless of their personal circumstances. Not only are we bound by the Constitution and laws, but we also have our own sense of justice and equality. In the Modern Centre Party, we place this commitment high on the scale of our values and we are confident that through a more balanced representation of individual social groups, gender balance can be better exploited by all development potentials. Unfortunately, our society did not internalise these values to the point that it is no longer necessary to discuss the situation of women and the social objectives actually achieved, so that each individual can contribute equally to social development and prosperity regardless of gender. While we are ranked relatively high on the equality scales, it is certainly encouraging but balanced representation of both genders, particularly in the field of economy, science and politics, we have not yet achieved. On average, we are more educated than our colleagues, we have comparable work experience, but we are less likely to intervene in leading jobs or not participate in the highest decision-making bodies. In Slovenia, the glass ceiling is still strongly present, the gender pay gap is deepening – women are still paid less than men for the same work, knowledge and competence. Despite the stated gender equality, which is indirectly enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution, everyday practice shows that adequate gender representation in specific areas of social life has not yet been achieved. We strongly believe that this ignores our social potential. At the same time, we are convinced that, insofar as access to the highest decision-making places is difficult for one sex, it is the task of the State to create an environment by means of measures to remove obstacles that prevent full exploitation of potentials, and, of course, taking into account the principles of meritocracy. Therefore, for us, data that shows that only in 2080 would there be too many views of gender balance in the highest decision-making places without adequate measures by the authorities. Such a dynamic of progress is certainly too slow, too far and even hindering for society. It is therefore essential that, with the amendment of the law that we are adopting today, we make much earlier provision for greater sexual balance in decision-making positions in the composition of the working bodies of the Government and in the administration and supervision bodies of public law, and in addition to appointing or proposing representatives and representatives of the self-government local communities to the authorities of governance and control. Slowly, but persistently, quotas in our society are being strengthened as an effective mechanism for gender equality, and we can all be satisfied together. But they are not pleased in any way with the way that we have achieved the last step in strengthening equality and balanced representation. There have already been a number of trends, especially with strong conservative ideological calls for rights to be restricted or even hindered by progressive political ideas that would better or actually bring equality to life. In the Modern Centre Party, such ideas are clearly and loudly resisted. Allowing women to make decisions in the highest and most important decision-making positions is not only a matter of equality, but it is essential for the growth and development of our society. That is why we will, of course, support the proposal of the Modern Centre's Parliamentary Group, because we believe that the proposed amendments will break the glass ceiling, which women are more often and more likely to run into. It's time for this to end.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place tomorrow, 26 September 2019, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the supplementation of a criminal code. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u152	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! All sexual abuse marks victims for the rest of their lives as it leaves psychological consequences, especially if the victims are children or minors. These often do not trust their parents or their parents or decide not to press criminal charges because of the long - term proceedings in which the victim has to participate. Unfortunately, most child sexual abuse is done by people who are very close to the child, who are trusted and trusted by children. Most often, they are members of a larger or larger family or a person entrusted with the child’s protection. In this case, it is not acts committed by force or threat, but by deception, which is the most perverted and unworthy of man. If sexual abuse occurs in early childhood, victims are usually subconsciously suppressed so deeply that they are not even aware of it. They are not really ready to face them until perhaps decades later, but unfortunately in some cases it is too late. Recent cases have shown that when victims of sexual abuse have gathered courage, cases have also been presented in public, another problem has arisen, that is, the persecution of perpetrators is unfortunately outdated. Prosecution under the current regime is no longer permitted if 10 years have elapsed since a criminal offence which may be punishable by law for at least one year, or if 20 years have elapsed since the service of a criminal offence for which at least five years has been envisaged, or if 30 years have elapsed since the offence for which more than 10 years may be committed. So in some cases these crimes are obsolete in 10, some in 20, some in 30 years. However, recent examples show that victims do not gather courage until 40 years later, some even after 50 years. There is no doubt that crimes against sexual inviolability are unacceptable acts that have long-standing consequences for victims and their relatives. She didn't apologize for them. There must be no extenuating circumstances for them to allow the perpetrators to remain unpunished or to delay prosecution against them. In view of the fact that these crimes can be linked to force or threat and constitute a serious breach of human dignity, it is imperative to supplement the Penal Code in a work which speaks of the indemnity of crimes. In NS, this bill proposes that crimes related to sexual abuse should never be obsolete. The proposed addition to the Code would constitute a great relief for the victims of these crimes, as they would also have the opportunity to prosecute the perpetrator after a long time. On the other hand, potential perpetrators would be aware that in the case of a service of such a crime, time would not be their ally and they could be held accountable for their actions irrespective of the length of time from the service of the crime. By adopting this law today, we would first send a very clear message to all victims. That's: you'll never be alone. But we would also send a very important message to all criminals who actually commit these perverted acts, and that is: The period of justice will reach you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Andrei Katič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government, the Ministry of Justice and I personally support any effort aimed at improving the situation of victims of crime, particularly crimes against sexual inviolability. I therefore support today's debate. I believe that it can be an important contribution to the search for solutions to some complex issues. This is a topic which is unfortunately still taboo in Slovenian society. That is the case, the sad stories of most women as well as men bear witness. It is especially tragic if the victims of these perverse acts are children. And it is from the position of the victims that we must first emerge. What can we do to help them in this situation? I have in mind the procedure and the proof of medical and psychological care. I'm glad you supported our amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act this year, with which the victim and her protection come to the fore. In practice, the solutions will come back to life on 20 October. At the Ministry of Justice, together with others these days, we also conclude the preparation of a transparent package on the rights of victims of crime, which the competent authorities will first contact. I assess that raising victims' awareness and adequate comprehensive response and assistance from the competent authorities, including the courts, can help to promote the reporting of sexual offences and the prosecution of perpetrators. The applicable Penal Code in Article 90 lays down the time limits for the limitation of prosecution. They begin to run away from the service of the crime and their length is linked to the lengths of the prison sentences which may be imposed. With the implementation of the Penal Code in 2008, they were set for a further longer period. Criminal prosecution for the basic form of criminal offence of rape has expired since the 2008 KZ-1 implementation after 20 years. There was also an extension of the time limit for the lengthening of the pursuit of sexual assault on a person under the age of 15 who began to run only at the age of 18 years, i.e. aged 38. Is that enough? Will neglect have a preventive effect? Will it deter potential perpetrators? Will it contribute to improving the situation of the victim? Should all crimes against sexual inviolability be treated equally, regardless of the gravity of the acts? Today's proposal explains the reform of criminal laws in some countries. We, as you know, are also studying the chapter on crimes against sexual inviolability as part of the preparation of the following amendments and additions, including the question of the appropriateness of outdated time limits. I join the opinion of the more advanced countries that the model of coercion in relation to the crime of rape is no longer appropriate. When preparing the amendments to the Penal Code, I want it to be based on the model: only it is. I have already discussed this with some of you, honourable Members, when I visit and present the priorities of the Ministry of Justice. Of course, I am aware that the final decision must be made in cooperation with and with you. In my view, too, in finding arguments for the necessary changes, we have approached a thorough analysis of all the completed trials in the last period. In defining the model, the issue of proof is also at the forefront. Why do we have to enlighten the public and talk about this taboo topic? The possibility of proving a crime also declines with the passing of time. Some facts are becoming increasingly difficult or even impossible to prove after years have passed, and due to the possibility of proof, we should encourage victims to report the act as soon as possible so that they do not go too far before they seek help. Regardless of the future debates on these changes, I certainly, as a woman and as a mother, advocate every step towards improving the situation of women who are most often victims of these crimes. In this context, I once again welcome today's debate, and I also believe in supporting the further necessary changes that we need to agree on together for the benefit of the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Blaž Pavlin will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u156	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for amendments to the Penal Code, whereby cases of sexual abuse would not be obsolete. The applicable Penal Code provides in its 95th Article for which offences are not prosecuted and punished. These are crimes that are at risk of life imprisonment, certain crimes against humanity and crimes that are defined as non-derogable by international treaties. Among them there are no criminal acts against sexual inviolability. Because of acts committed by force or threat or fraud, these crimes must also be condemned and punished most severely. Especially if the victims are children and minors. These victims have long-lasting psychological consequences and their lives become a vicious circle of searching for an answer why. Most of the victims are children and minors under the age of 15 who are only able to talk about a violent act after many years, so it is only right that these crimes never become obsolete. The adoption of today's amendment to the Penal Code will allow the perpetrators of these crimes to be prosecuted at all times, irrespective of how long it has been since the service of the crime. The proposed addition to the Code would constitute a great relief for the victims of these crimes, as they would also have the opportunity to prosecute the perpetrator after a long time. On the other hand, potential perpetrators would be aware that in the case of a service of such a crime, time would not be their ally and they could be held accountable for their actions regardless of the length of time from the service of the crime. The proposed amendments to the Penal Code are without prejudice to the amount of penalties that are at risk of individual offences. The only change is that the perpetrators could be brought to justice at any time. This is, last but not least, the purpose of criminal law, and this objective must be pursued forever and everywhere as a society. The perpetrators now realize that in the event of a crime, time is their ally. After a long period of time, no one can harm them, so it is not uncommon for the perpetrators to successfully avoid criminal sanctions by hiding or avoiding judicial proceedings. Perpetrators choose weak and powerless victims, increasing the problem of sexual abuse. These have been gathering courage for so many years to apply, and when they finally decide to apply, the most frequently obsolete deadlines are over. Perpetrators have so many years of flawless criminal record, so they can find employment in education, sport, health care or other educational institutions. With support, the proposed change as a country would show that zero tolerance applies to sexual abuse in Slovenia. Such an attitude should be the position of all Members, for if we put ourselves in the role of the victim or his or her loved one, then any dilemma regarding the punishment of the waste. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the country must lay down and provide a legal framework that ensures that these perpetrators will be responsible for their rejection at any time, even if it has been many years since the time of the crime, so we will support the amendment. But we invite all Members of Parliament to do the same. This will allow us, together with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the professional public in the second reading, to further complement and improve our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present to us the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary! The Novi Slovenija Group presented us with a proposal for amendments to the Penal Code. They want to ensure that no crime committed against sexual inviolability will wear off. Let me first touch on the purpose of the Institute for the Longevity of Criminal Persecution or the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. The prosecution, conviction and execution of a criminal offence are most effective if they occur relatively quickly after the commission of the offence. More time than it runs from service to prosecution of a crime or sentence, less effects are imposed. The purpose of the penalty in criminal law is primarily a special and general prevention. This means dissuading the offender from re-service of a criminal offence and generally deterring people from committing crimes. As time goes on, all these institutes lose their sense of both prosecution and punishment. Evidence of the crime is also increasingly questionable and difficult. It is also important to delay prosecution in terms of legal certainty and predictability, as it is an instrument to limit the arbitrariness of the State. For after a certain period of time, the State shall lose the right to express or enforce a criminal sanction. Otherwise, we have substantially extended limitation periods in our criminal law since 2008. Article 95 of the Penal Code provides for the non-derogability of certain offences. These are the most reprehensible crimes that can be punishable by life imprisonment, such as genocide, crimes against humanity, the war of crime, aggression, the responsibility of military commanders and other superiors, the protection of genocide and so on. Indemnity also applies to those offences for which international treaties stipulate that it is not possible to depreciate. It is a fact, and we probably all agree here that crimes against sexual inviolability are also among the most reprehensible crimes. Especially when the victims are children or minors. Victims of such crimes usually face the consequences their whole lives, as it is a serious offense to human dignity. Many victims, especially women and children, do not report such acts at all or dare to do so much later, sometimes even too late. In the SAB Group, we actively support such solutions because we strongly condemn any crimes against sexual inviolability and their perpetrators. This is how we will support the proposal in the first reading of the law. At the same time, we will strive to address the shortcomings of the proposal brought to the attention of the Ministry of Justice in the next steps. It will also be necessary to wait for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. For we do not want an oversurprise of solutions that are at first sight desirable, but at the same time do not contain a serious consideration of the consequences. In doing so, we also count on the proposers to be prepared for further discussion to develop constructive solutions. We agree that such changes are not to be taken on a partial basis, as the Government has already warned us. This can put uncertainty into the legal order. A thorough reflection and analysis of the whole area are needed. The Ministry of Justice has already ensured that they are preparing amendments to the Penal Code, which will also open the chapter on crimes against sexual inviolability. In our Group of Members, we believe that systematic amendments to such important laws as this should be made. As has already been said, in the SAB Group, we will support the proposal for a law at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present to us the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! Criminal acts against sexual inviolability constitute a serious attack on physical and mental integrity and freedom. In themselves, they violate the foundations of human dignity while at the same time preventing the enjoyment of a variety of other human rights, including the right to physical and mental health. According to Desus, these actions that a person can commit against a fellow human are in itself the most morally repulsive, and especially if the victim is a child, such a delict is rejected. In our Penal Code, there are eight articles that define or define eight such crimes. The basic acts themselves are, of course, further worked out by way and execution and by the status or relationship between the perpetrator and the victim. Under those circumstances, the penalties at stake range from six months to fifteen years in prison. In addition to the definition of a criminal offence, it is also essential for a successful prosecution period. Why is the time limit of persecution so important in these actions? Because it is very rare for victims to talk about it at a time when sexual abuse is still taking place, or shortly after it has ended, because they must first face what has been done to them, and then they must build up courage and live again, when or if they choose to announce to the law enforcement body at all. The statutes of limitations in these offences are as different as the lengths of the penalties at risk and depend on the qualification of the offence. Such prosecution under the applicable legislation shall expire first within 10 years of the service of the act and no later than 30 years. It is important, however, that in those crimes where the victims of the minor were victims, the beginning of the limitation period is set from the age of the victim, which means that the possibility of prosecution may be extended until the age of 48. Thus, to a certain extent, the current legislation already takes into account the specificity of the offences, since much more time than usual can pass between the act itself and the start of the prosecution. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the importance of the topic of crimes against sexual inviolability triggered by the proposal by the proposer, with a proposal for non-derogation. The proposal is in place. He's legitimate and he needs attention. Victims are not usually confronted with sexual abuse, especially in childhood, until decades later when they gather enough courage and strength to talk about it at all. Unfortunately, in the case of sexual abuse, time is often an ally of sexual attackers and an enemy of their victims, so that we Members of Desus are in principle in favour of today's proposal, and we are also aware that a longer time distance from the crime service affects the quality of the evidence, which could ultimately be worse for the outcome of the proceedings. Finally, proportionality must be taken into account in relation to the different types of offences. We support today's debate, and we expect the conclusion of the summit to be constructive. Constructive in the light of the fact that the Penal Code does not change from today to tomorrow, that in addition to the issue of obsolescence, there is clearly another issue to be raised in our criminal law legislation. The fact that reported rapes are only around 15% would also make sense to verify the definition or definition of criminal offences and the appropriateness of the level of criminal sanctions themselves. Although we agree with the proponents of the bill in principle, in our parliamentary group we are also aware that many legal issues have been raised with this initiative, so we think that it is appropriate to take a holistic and professional approach to change in the second reading. The latter does not discourage us from not supporting today's proposal in the Desus Group. In view of the concerns raised at the same time, we hope that the amendment below can be amended and modified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present to us the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u162	Nice hello to you all! The bill is good, as it follows the development of criminal law in our country. Existing criminal standards no longer meet expectations, so criminal repression must be exacerbated as they dictate social change. Indemnity of prosecution and negligence in the enforcement of penalties are important measures justifying the tightness of criminal policy. The only criminal repression is one that can achieve a right that gives victims the feeling that society understands them and is on their side by strictly condemning such unreasonable, repulsive acts of the perpetrators. It is clear from the very nature of the crimes that each of them has long-lasting psychological consequences on the victim. Victims have problems with social inclusion, they close themselves, they are treated for depression, they have problems with self-image and so on. Minors under the age of 15 experience particularly severe trauma. Such victims are unconsciously suppressed for years and traumas erupt over decades. The only way we can fight crimes against sexual inviolability is through stricter criminal repression. We do not see any other leverage in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to respond to crimes against sexual inviolability while at the same time informing the victims that it is on their side. We strongly oppose any resocialisation measures for perpetrators, as the latter do not, in our opinion, have any effect on the responsibility of the perpetrator of the above-mentioned crimes. Those who commit such disgusting crimes are corrupt and wicked, as we consider them to be sexual lepers. It is right that we, as a legislator, take all measures to expel such persons from society. It is right that the proposed supplement seeks to legitimize the indemnity of criminal prosecution, as well as the indemnity of the execution of the sentence. Such a measure strengthens the general prevention, as it gives the perpetrators a clear sign that they will never escape the time limits of justice. From now on, he will no longer be their ally. The victim must be allowed to file a complaint against the perpetrator at any time of his life, and he must not be under time pressure until he has to do so. The adoption of today's proposal will most severely condemn such perpetrators. The social changes I mentioned at the outset are that people from other cultural backgrounds or from countries where such crimes are more relaxed. At times, there is a very large tolerance for such acts, an example of which is India. When such people come to our country, they think that they can justify their actions in a way that is legal from their country, but that is not the case. For these perpetrators, they are most likely victims of rape and sexual violence. The perpetrators leave our country — and then what? Nothing. It is right to give a clear signal that if the perpetrator leaves our territory, he will never sleep peacefully, for his actions will always be threatened with prosecution. In recent times, there have been a number of cases in the media that have occurred in foreign countries when European Union citizens are being raped. Sooner or later, the authorities of detection and persecution in our country will face such problems. It is only right that we are adequately prepared for it. We will, of course, support the proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Kaloh will present to us the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u164	Vice President, thank you very much for your announcement. Dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members! The position of the SDS Group concerning the completion of the Penal Code is as follows. Today, we are considering the first reading of the New Slovenia proposal to supplement the Penal Code, where the proposer envisages the completion of Article 95(1) of the Penal Code by also determining the negligence of prosecution and the enforcement of penalties in relation to offences against sexual inviolability. The time-limits for the limitation of prosecution shall be laid down in Article 90 KZ-1 by beginning to run from the service of the offence and their length shall be linked to the different lengths of imprisonment which may be pronounced for offences. The Penal Code now foresees, in the context of crimes against sexual inviolability, an extension of between 10 and 30 years, depending, of course, on the envisaged imprisonment. With regard to the length of time limits for the limitation of prosecution, it is worth noting that they were significantly extended by the application of KZ-1 in 2008 with regard to the provisions in the previous criminal code, as they were fixed for a further longer period and as such still apply. The provision of Article 91, paragraph 3, of the KZ-1, which states that the limitation shall not take place at a time when prosecution may not commence or continue under the law or when the perpetrator is unattainable to the State authorities, for example because he is on the run. If the offender commits the same serious or serious offence at the time of the limitation period, the statute of limitations shall be suspended in accordance with Article 91(4) of the Code and shall resume following the interruption. It should also be recalled that in the case of offences against sexual inviolability and crimes against marriage, family, youth committed against a minor, the time limit for the limitation of prosecution shall not run until the injured person has reached the age of age, where it is of course to detect the legislator's efforts to further protect juvenile victims or thus give them a time-limit for prosecution. In its opinion, the Council of Justice stressed that the excessive prosecution of sexual offences was an issue that would require an in-depth debate and only then a possible change in the KIC. In its opinion, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the applicants on serious crimes against sexual inviolability, interference with human dignity and their consequences, but at the same time points to proportionality. In the main solutions to the KZ-1F proposal, the applicants point out that the continuation of such crimes now allows perpetrators to escape the time limits of justice when victims do not talk about sexual abuse for a long time. It is appropriate to agree with the proposer that the proposed amendment of the law is not only aimed at prosecuting perpetrators of crimes against sexual inviolability, but also to protect the victims themselves, as they would also have the opportunity to prosecute the perpetrators of those crimes for a long time. At the same time, the perpetrators themselves would receive a signal that we do not tolerate sexual abuse in Slovenia and that the time limit of justice will always be longer than the time that has elapsed from their illegal and low performances. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we therefore support the proposal of the New Slovenia to supplement the Penal Code on this first reading, and we will vote in favour of the proposed non-abuse of crimes against sexual abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present to us the position of the Marjan Sarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that the amendment to the Penal Code refers to the abolition of the statute of limitations on sexual inviolability, I should like to mention something about this institute as an introduction. The Institute of Obsolescence is in law one of the oldest legal institutes that has been introduced into the legal system since Roman law. Its purpose in criminal law must be sought for the purpose of criminal sanctions, which pursues both special and general prevention. Simply put, criminal sanctions shall achieve their purpose if they are imposed in a relatively short period of time. From here on out, there is a reason why we also have age-old age in criminal law. Today, we have before us a proposal with which a person hardly agrees, but it is necessary to realize that in criminal law the statute of limitations has constitutional importance and is legislation primarily to extinguish the right of the State to prosecute an individual indefinitely. The crimes against sexual inviolability are most horrendous because they represent the gravest intervention in man and his body, cause lasting psychological consequences for the victim and cause a stigma that is difficult to free. Like all crimes, these crimes must be condemned, in particular those more acutely. At the end of the limitation period for such offences, a variety of professional questions will have to be answered, whether we want to or do not want to. The latter was also pointed out by the Council of Justice, which proposed an in-depth and professional debate on issues of sexual abuse and warned of the traps that could be brought about by the rapid amendment of the Penal Code. It is our responsibility to allow professional dialogue and an expert debate, which, in our view, must cross the borders of the National Assembly and include expertise, on the proposed change ahead of us today. We will therefore support the proposal at first reading in the LMŠ for this purpose. However, we believe that, in preparing possible changes to the crime against sexual inviolability, it is necessary to look at the matter more broadly, including in view of possible reform, whether the model of forced rape is even appropriate. In any case, changes in such a sensitive area as sexual delinquency should not be made quickly and without consideration, so we also support today's debate and possible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present to us the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The fact is that crimes against sexual inviolability are crimes that are horrendous, unjustifiable and repulsive, which require the most severe condemnation and punishment. Rape, sexual violence, sexual abuse of a weak person, sexual assault on a person under 15 years of age. In the entire Penal Code, I read these articles the hardest. And it's even harder to listen to the stories of the victims of these crimes. However, cases of child sexual abuse are particularly frightening. It is a very shocking, traumatic event that leaves children with life’s consequences and traumas. In that most sensitive period, when we should know only joy and laughter when we should be safe and their only burden should be school, their childhood is cruel and violently taken away. They are exposed to the lowest and most repulsive acts they have marked for life. And as a society, we must condemn and sanction such acts most severely. Therefore, it is important to note possible abuse, recognize the plight of children, listen to them, and most importantly act immediately. This is the only way to prevent such horrors. We have been asking ourselves, and we have long advocated the fact that the time has come for comprehensive changes to our criminal law in the area of crimes against sexual inviolability. We believe that it is necessary to change the definition of crimes against sexual inviolability in a way consistent with international law and standards, including the obligations of Slovenia under the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention, Combating and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, or the so-called Istanbul Convention. Unfortunately, our country has implemented exactly all the possibilities for reservations provided by Article 68 of the Convention. Among them, it is particularly important that we have waived the possibility that the victim of sexual violence should not be prosecuted by himself and that in the process, we should re-emerg on the trauma of violence, the persecution of the perpetrator and the recovery of compensation after the application have been fully taken over by the authorities of the State on official duty. The current regime, as a result of such procedures, discourages victims of sexual violence from persecution and allows in many cases actual violence to even prevail in the end. This is absolutely unacceptable for the Social Democrats, and we believe that all reservations to the relevant Slovenian Convention should finally be lifted. The fact is, as many key stakeholders also confirm, that the perpetrators of these discards, due to certain circumstances which we believe are absolutely unsuited to modern times, are given a lower sentence than they undoubtedly deserve. In the worst cases, however, they even remain unpunished, making it seem that there is actually a rather high tolerance for such acts in our society. And this must be strongly resisted and it must be made clear that crimes against sexual inviolability are among the most repulsive acts, worth the harshest sentences and zero tolerances. In Slovenia, we have a legal model of coercion that involves a crime of rape, for example, if someone forces another person to have sex by using force or threatening to attack a person's life or body. Therefore, some rightly point out that it is an outdated model that we are wondering whether it provides effective protection of sexual inviolability, as it requires that the victim resists and therefore requires it to pose even more risks by resistance. In many cases, it is not sufficient and, for example, numbs the victim. Self-defense mechanisms and reactions may be different in different victims. The case-law in the area of sexual inviolability is interpreted by the interpretation of coercion and the threat of direct assault on life or the body, while departing from the model of coercion and is already approaching models that put victims' will at the forefront. For example, in the judgment of the Supreme Court of 1 February 2018, the Court stated that the force manifested itself, I quote, “in the convict's physical power and the supremacy that he used against the injury, which, contrary to her will and the right to sexual self-determination, forced her to have sexual intercourse”. However, it cannot remain only in the design of judicial practice. It is necessary to move in the legislative area and to establish a new model in which the protection of victims and their rights to free decision-making, personal freedom and security will be essential. Some European countries have already introduced new models such as, say, the model does not mean, as they know it in Germany or Austria, and a model that means that, as they know it in Sweden. These models no longer require force. It is enough that the victim clearly shows that he does not give consent or clearly shows that he consents to certain sexual practices. We believe that the time has absolutely come when our society and policy must open up the debate and also change the model for us to take primary and explicit account of the expression of the victim's will. We therefore welcome here that the Ministry of Justice has also announced changes to the Penal Code in this work and that it is already conducting the necessary debate with key stakeholders. The Penal Code is one of the pillars of criminal law and, of course, it is necessary to approach the changes carefully, on the basis of all necessary research, international comparisons with other countries and in discussions with professional and other stakeholders. However, it is also the right and at the same time the task of every all legislator to create criminal law in the field of sexual inviolability in the first place, by listening to people, for the victims of these horrendous crimes, for their just satisfaction and for the perpetrator's appropriate punishment. That is why we believe that changes are needed by the Social Democrats. The case of a man in Slovenia who had sexual intercourse with a woman while sleeping and used force only when she woke up – he was convicted of a crime of coercion that was milder than rape. Or the case in Spain, when the victim died after being surrounded by five men, and she did not dare to defend and resist and did not have to use force — they were convicted of a minor form of crime and not rape. All of these are examples that have encouraged European countries to amend legislation in this area. Will this proposal for amendments to the Penal Code today solve these cases? There won't be any. It is therefore necessary to extend this amendment to the law, to consider changing the definition of rape and sexual violence. Even if we change these provisions completely today, we will not be able to help all the victims who have already been abused. I'm afraid the laws don't apply back. However, changes can prevent many sad stories from repeating themselves. The question of whether the penalties for the perpetrators of these crimes are high enough is probably always the answer, and probably never will be. All efforts must therefore be made to assist the victims of these horrendous crimes in order to provide them with adequate support. We are talking about psychological support, the proper conduct and understanding of the competent institutions, the police, doctors and all other stakeholders. And it's important that we help them immediately so that we don't turn our backs and wait for them to just get rid of the pain. However, it is important to note that the urgency and urgency of criminal legislation should not change, as this can quickly undermine the systematic or logical consistency of legislation by questioning the fundamental institutions of criminal law. And all of this could jeopardize legal certainty. That is why this proposal also raises the issue of respect for the principle of proportionality, since the proposed changes to the limitation period refer to the entire chapter of crimes against sexual inviolability. And we need to be careful here, and here we must follow the profession, and above all the constitutional principles. We will certainly support the proposal at first reading. However, as a result of all these warnings, we expect the Ministry of Justice to carry out an in-depth professional debate, which is actually already under way, and to make proposals for any necessary changes, which will primarily protect the victims of these crimes. I am pleased that we have started to talk about the debate. That's what we need to talk about. And if I finally use the sentence of Justice Minister Andreja Katič, I think we'll have to fight another battle for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič will present to us the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u170	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! With the proposal of the Criminal Code, Nova Slovenija proposes to supplement the first paragraph of Article 95 of the Penal Code by also establishing the indemnity of prosecution and the enforcement of penalties in relation to offences against sexual inviolability. Data from the World Health Organization reveal that every fourth girl in the world and every sixth boy was abused before the age of 18. In 2018, the Public Prosecutor's Office received 168 criminal charges for sexual assault against a person under the age of 15 and 44 charges for the crime of portraying, producing, possessing and transmitting pornographic material. With regard to these crimes, the public prosecutors do not detect any apparent decline. In the SMC, it is recalled that any number of these crimes is too large. We note, however, that in modern societies there is an increase in sensitivity to sexual abuse, even by minors, which is also right. For we believe that there is no more unacceptable and repudiatory act than the sexual abuse of a child. As a society, we can't do that and we can't let that happen. Sexual abuse of children is a serious violation of children’s rights and has long-term negative consequences, even in adulthood. Slovenia had already set an age of limitation for these crimes in 2008 by starting to run only after the victim's full age. This is important because most abused children suppress this experience in their subconscious, and years later the victims are usually too late to act effectively against the perpetrators. We have also witnessed the 2011 amendment of the Penal Code, which paid particular attention to tightening the penalties for sexual offences where minors are victims. Certain crimes, the abuse of prostitution, the presentation, production, possession and transmission of pornographic material and trafficking in human beings have been defined more precisely and more precisely. In the past, a so-called paedophile registry has also been introduced within the criminal record, where convicted perpetrators of child sexual abuse are registered. In this mandate, we have also taken one step further in solving this problem. We have adopted a new Law on Social Protection, which provides adequate support to victims of crime and their family members, which includes identifying the beneficiary's distress, awareness, guidance and guidance to enable the victim of the crime to make an appropriate psychological, social and financial improvement in the situation in which the crime took place. We are advocates of an effective, fair and swift trial in the SMC. In fact, trials that take place more than ten years after the crime was committed do not contribute to greater justice. For decades after the commission of the crime, it is difficult to prove the elements of the crime itself. Not least, however, the long limitation period gives these offenders a false hope that they will receive judicial redress in the same way if the offence is announced tomorrow or 15 years later. This is some starting point on which we are somewhat skeptical, whether it is an extension of the statutes or an end to the statutes of limitations, a matter that benefits victims of crime or not. Consider, for example, priest Karl Yosht, suspected of 16 sexual assaults on persons under the age of 15 who died before the end of the trial. His advocate accompanied the completion of the procedure, which had ended with death, by saying that he had flown off on the wings of innocence. We do not want any other suspects to fly away on the wings of innocence at any time, especially because proceedings against him would start later than they could. As far as the proposal we have on the table is concerned, we will first listen to the profession. However, if possible, we will primarily advocate that, in practice, those provisions that I referred to earlier, i.e. the amendment to the Social Protection Act, be implemented in such a way that victims of these crimes are encouraged to report the crimes themselves quickly. So help them both at institutional and at other levels in order to get these trials as quickly as possible and that suspects or later convicts get what they are doing under criminal law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present to us the position of the Levitical Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats with amendments to the Penal Code proposes to end the limitation period for prosecution and to punish perpetrators of crimes against sexual inviolability. Since we are talking, of course, about rape, paedophilia, sexual violence, abuse, prostitution, sexual exploitation, in short, the most reprehensible acts that man is capable of, at first glance, it is very difficult to challenge. Especially since it is a sensitive area that generates extremely emotional responses in the general public. This is probably also a key reason for making such a proposal. It would be very difficult to say that the proposed solution would significantly improve the current situation in this area. Just because of the emotional charge that the subject is triggering, we should pay even more attention to it. Any awakening to the victims’ feelings of at least partial satisfaction is worth judging. I'm sure the Christian Democrats are aware of that. The abolition of the statutes for the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes against sexual inviolability is, as it is said, a welcome proposal, but does not bring about a solution to the key problem. Why? First of all, it is also necessary to point out to the public that such a proposal does not apply back, does not apply to past actions, so we must look forward, it is said in the future and how to improve the current situation. We do not see the biggest problem in Levika in the out-of-date, but in the very system of dealing with sexual violence. For many years, the profession has also pointed to this fact. I have in mind the ineffective prevention, detection and prosecution of perpetrators of such crimes, as well as the issue of inadequate protection, treatment and re-victimisation of victims of crimes against sexual invitability, so that I do not begin with stigmatisation. All of this certainly has a decisive effect on when and whether the victim dares and declares only a crime. In Levi, we believe that the current system does not provide adequate treatment for victims of sexual violence and does not encourage the reporting of crimes. Fear of re-victimisation, lengthy police and judicial proceedings, public opinion or judgment and fear of retaliation by the perpetrator are certainly one of the important reasons for the victims to unfortunately rarely decide to apply. Even today, we can often hear comments about the vengeful nature of women, resentment among former partners, and the belief that the victim did say no, but she certainly thought that. Or that the victim had a way of behaving, dressing, or even challenging. In addition to inadequate protection of victims, the definition of individual crimes has also become obsolete. There are an increasing number of European countries that have already modernised or intend to do so in a short time. Modernisation, however, is aimed at defining rape as any sex without consent. These amendments were adopted by the United Kingdom, Belgium, Cyprus, Germany, Iceland, Luxembourg and Sweden, among others. Unfortunately, there is no Slovenia among them. In this regard, we have also called on the Government to prepare appropriate changes that will be defined by rape in a way that defines any sexual relationship that has no consent as a crime. Finally, Slovenia has committed itself to this by signing the Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, which, among other things, requires voluntary consent. For example, redefining the crime of sexual abuse of a weak person would be necessary as the current regime treats the weakness of the victim as a mitigating circumstance for the perpetrator. In addition to all the changes mentioned, we are convinced in Levica that consideration is needed on the limitation of time limits, but not on their abolition. The aberration of criminal prosecution and the execution of punishment has its own purpose. An effective penal policy or an effective system of sanctions also requires, inter alia, that the offence is punishable in due course. This applies both from the point of view of the victim, the perpetrator and society as a whole. In this part, crimes against sexual inviolability are special, especially if the victims are children. Highly rare are children who talk about abuse at a time when sexual abuse occurs. For years or even decades, it takes them to be courageous and talk. This fact certainly needs to be adapted to legislation. As a result of this specificity, the limitation period already in force begins to run only after the age of the victim and not after the date of the offence, as is the case with the remaining offences. In Levi, we wonder if such arrangements are really the most appropriate. Some countries have already extended this deadline. We have already proposed to the government this January to consider any changes in this area. But, as it were, not in the direction of lifting out the obsolete hands. It is primarily the responsibility of the State to ensure effective and swift prosecution of perpetrators of crimes. It is the responsibility of the State to punish them appropriately, at an exemplary time. For it is not possible to overlook the fact that persecution of the perpetrator after 60, 70 years of sexual abuse is so difficult that the conviction is virtually impossible. The victim would only be forced to revive the abuse, and at least partial compensation in the form of a conviction of the perpetrator would most likely not be received. This is why we believe in Levica that it is necessary to provide a system that will encourage the victims to report the perpetrators as soon as possible, and not a system that will persecute the perpetrators half a century or more after the abuses themselves. However, the issue of the age-old age for sexual abuse is certainly also topical in terms of abuse in the Slovenian Catholic Church. When pedophiles and rapists are protected by an influential, rich and divulged multinational, the possibility of being convicted of their crimes becomes virtually null. And the fact is, even compared to rare positive movements abroad, we are lagging behind. Covering up crimes, protecting the perpetrators and suppressing abuses under the carpet are part of the reason why crimes get obsolete. More than that, most times they've never been discovered. That is also part of the reason why the victims do not hope to speak. The view that the RCC itself will provide internal and closed doors with the sanctioning of its own paedophiles and rapists is rejected just as much as crimes themselves. The punishments for a paedophile in the form of a one-year prayer of psalms, the transfer from the diocese to the diocese and from the parish to the parish seem to be quite appropriate sanctions for sexual abuse. That's why they don't see the need to involve the police and the courts. We cannot touch on these issues quickly with the amendment of the Penal Code. What is hidden, hidden, and swept under the carpet is hard to pursue. But you'll know better than we do. Because of these concerns, we will not support the law at first reading. However, we certainly insist on our initiatives that we have already addressed to the Government, and we want this area to be addressed as soon as possible and not least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before that, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposer. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u174	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Members, Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for these opening remarks. I thank you for the correct debate, as well as the views given correctly, which have indicated that this is a problem in society and what is essential, and if we take this debate away from today, especially that the climate in society is changing. This is one important step forward that this society wants and that this Parliament wants to cultivate zero tolerance for all kinds of abuse at all. If this is the basic message of today's debate, this is certainly good. In some opinions, you wondered where was the reason why Nova Slovenije came with this proposal that sexual abuse would never be obsolete. The reason is very specific, most likely you know the civil initiative Enough. It is a civil initiative that pursues sexual abuse within the Roman Catholic Church. When they received individuals who had been willing to expose themselves after many years and even talk about these abuses, they ran into a concrete wall. This is that the cases are outdated because from the event to the time when the victim gathered courage to present the matter, too much time passed. I certainly agree with those who say that, in addition to the issue of the length of the limitation period, it is also important that these things be reported as soon as possible, that the processes are running as quickly as possible. We also agree with all of this in New Slovenia, and we support it, of course. If we cultivate zero tolerance for sexual abuse in society, then we will encourage all victims to do so as soon as possible because they will also feel in some way safe to be protected by the system in this context. Take a look at what is happening in the United States now, how things are leaking every day, because the attitude towards such things has changed significantly in that society. Gradually, maybe a little late these things come here too. The only thing that surprised me about those positions was the position of the Left. Sometimes it's really hard to understand because I think that positions are adapting to the proposaler, or if we're New Slovenia for, this automatically means that they're against it. When I listened to Dr. Tashner, he could rightly point out some unusual, strange, inappropriate, unacceptable practices in the Roman Catholic Church, even talking about these things, that for the prosecution of such acts the problem is also an outdated period, which is too short, but at the same time he said that he does not support these things. Understand who the sea is, but I thought it was interesting to stress these things, because I feel that there are also moments like it is today, but when we are in this House capable of a broader consensus, a broader unity in certain things, of course with the exception of the Left, which is always a little special. We are aware that this topic is sensitive and is also legally difficult. We do not claim that what we have written is only good and saving and that it is just this and nothing else. We will certainly be very interested in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and if this opinion is to be very negative or suggestive of a lot of corrections, we will also need to take work at second reading seriously and complete this act. I'm also pleased with what the minister said. It had, in its openings, a very correct debate on all the problems and dimensions of these issues. I am pleased that the Ministry is also thinking that the Penal Code will go a little wider, but I still think that it is complementary to these changes because we are going to go out of date. What the minister announced, however, is also a different definition of these sexual abuses. At this point, too, Nova Slovenija supports, let's say, a dictatorship – only it is; and nothing else. These things will also have to be corrected in the Penal Code. When we gave a comparative review into this law, you can see that some countries here have already taken a step further to keep Slovenia here. There will certainly be a coalition here, and the Minister will also have our support for these concrete changes. But once again, this correction that we are now making can certainly be complemented by what the Minister will do. As I said, I am grateful to you that, according to the views of the parliamentary groups, it seems that the law will go through at first reading, which means that in the second reading it will be possible to amend it. If, in the second reading, we also properly regulate out-of-date hands, then there is no obstacle to the minister six months later, a few months later it comes with another system law that will regulate the definition of sexual abuse, perhaps even certain things in the case of outdated deadlines, and so on. It is essential in this debate that our Parliament first sends a very clear message that we stand and want zero tolerance for sexual abuse. This is a basic message. By adopting this amendment, we can give this message. I am also aware of those problems that some of you have given, that maybe this is false security in this sense, if someone has the feeling that this crime will never grow old, that it may delay; although I believe that everyone, even if society is inclined to do so, will try to resolve these things as soon as possible. Of course, there will still be cases where these things will continue to flow deep into the subconscious and will erupt a little later. This is why I think it's important to settle the matter in such a way that it's not a matter of age.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I myself have seen today's debate as a double message. First of all, Slovenian policy has zero tolerance for any sexual violence, and secondly, has instructed the Ministry of Justice to continue our work, as regards amendments to the Penal Code, in particular or in this field. Perhaps as a third point or second point, today we have a political debate here, I was actually surprised that this proposal did not reflect more in some general public, I believe it will be after today's debate. And I think this should be welcomed, too, because sexual violence is still a taboo topic in Slovenian society, and this is what needs to be talked about. I was alone when I spoke in various groups about the changes of the model only that, many times, I encountered great opposition from the part of the profession, especially by the lay public, including my acquaintances. As a result, I believe that a broader message is needed, more support is needed not only by non-governmental organisations that meet the victims of these crimes every day in their mission; but also by societies as a whole. For this reason, I welcome this debate and I understand it; I also understand that the proposaler will continue to tell her profession. I also consider us, the Ministry of Justice, as a professional, to try where we can find some final result. That's what I think your instructions were. But I'm sure we're all working together for the sake of the victim, and I believe that this will be the final result. I am pleased with this support of the National Assembly or policy, whether on the one hand or on the other, perhaps with certain concerns expressed by the Left, but surely we need to talk about it. I believe that further, my deadline is open, cooperation is also offered by the proposer, that we are all trying to do our best together. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. However, since the list of Members and Members of Parliament who have been registered has changed, I will say something else. Have Predrag Baković ready, then the mags will follow. Bojana Mursich, mag. Dusan Verbich and Nina Maurovich. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with co-worker, dear colleague and colleagues. I must say, I am also in a positive mood when I have listened to your views on our proposal. I must say, since this spring we have been dealing with this proposal, which is before you today. I agree, Madam Minister, there was some great media attention, except when our President is mag. During the holidays Matthew Tonin presented this addition to the Penal Code at the press conference, there were several articles. But we didn't just write it like that. I may have signed an order or a better request in May or April and addressed it to our research and documentation sector, which is extremely good, extremely good, I commend it several times. I have to give him special commendation this time, too. And I asked for a comparative review on the subject of the penalty of sexual inviolability. You have it on the 70s. I suggest you don't print it like I did, but you use it in digital form. A very useful comparison has been made between the countries we have mentioned in our request: Austria, the Czech Republic, France, Croatia, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and the United States of America at federal level and at the level of two countries, California and New Jersey. A comparative review to see where the other countries are and to see where we are, Slovenia. We have an opportunity to be able to pursue acts against sexual inviolability within the European Union or a broader example of good practice. Colleagues and colleagues, you may not know whether or not you remember that the crimes committed by bankers, these are bank criminals, are obsolete in the '40s. In the '40s. Let us punish acts of sexual inviolability and sexual abuse after ten years. Where I found these forty years for bankers or crimes committed by bank criminals. You will find them in Article 33 of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Article 33(3) By the way. This is so difficult, important, that in 2012 Positive Slovenia, according to our feelings, wanted to stop this law, but it failed. It states that, irrespective of the general statutes of limitation, the crimes committed by bank criminals are obsolete in a quadruple of ordinary obsolete, general statutes of limitations. It is said that banking crime — 40 years of age, sexual abuse — is only ten years old. See for yourself if that's right. I'm sure no one thinks they'd lower out-of-date hands for bankers. I welcome the idea of a minister who says that these solutions need to be carefully reconsidered, and I absolutely agree. Our scenario is if it's lucky we're going to go to second reading if the marriage gets back up tomorrow. And it looks like it will. On the board, you know, we Members are the legislative branch of power. We dictate the pace of marriage. And the committee will certainly do the wisest thing possible; it will probably propose and then the President of the Justice Committee, Comrade Blaž Pavlin, will call for a public presentation of opinions where experts from the Ministry, the Council of Justice and the widest possible professional public will be invited. In this context, the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Erik Kerševan, is absolutely on our way, and notes that “the statute of limitations on the prosecution of sexual offences is an issue that rightly requires in-depth discussion and possible amendment of the Penal Code; but the swift, simplified and professionally unverified amendment of the provisions of the Penal Code is not an appropriate solution”. We absolutely agree and therefore we are in no hurry, using all possible procedures, activities that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow. Continues Dr. Kersevan: “The Council of Justice is of the opinion that an expert debate on this subject should be initiated and that legal solutions and possible amendments to the Penal Code should be prepared on this basis.” That's exactly what we're doing. Today, a clear political debate began, which I am happy to say will open the door to the next step of this discussion. I have also looked at a few things in the European legal order, although hand to heart, this is my non-professional assessment, and the European legal order is somehow lagging behind with activities to prosecute sexual abuse. I would just like to mention the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against sexual abuse and the sexual exploitation of children. This, however, has been the case since 2010. Among the reasons and objectives of this Directive are the following: Sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children are particularly serious forms of crime, as they are directed at children with the right to special protection and care. These actions have long-term, physical, psychological and social consequences for victims, and their presence undermines the fundamental values of modern society in relation to the special protection of children and trust in the relevant state institutions. Despite the lack of accurate and reliable statistics, studies show that quite a few children in Europe may be victims of sexual assault. Research also shows that this phenomenon does not decline over time, but some forms of sexual violence are increasingly common. And I'm sure we can find the answer here why this addition to the Penal Code – to show these criminals who abuse children in particular – I'm talking about this now that we don't want them to play and that we have some legal framework and that we're going to grab them by the neck, simplified. And that at any time, late, so many years from the act itself. The general objectives of the European Union's policy in this area, in accordance with Article 67 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; to ensure a high level of security through measures to prevent and combat crime involving sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children. In accordance with Article 83 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, this should be done primarily by establishing minimum rules on the definition of offences and sanctions in the field of sexual exploitation of children. Specific objectives would include effective prosecution of crimes, protection of the rights of victims and prevention of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children. The Directive also goes on to say what is reasonable and wise, that with the emergence of new technologies, the emergence of digital technologies, of course, also leads to new opportunities for abuse, sexual abuse. We also need to pay extreme attention to these matters and follow our national legislation in order to sanction them in due time. You know, we often find that technology is very much ahead of our legislation, our regulation. Here, once again, we must be very careful and adapt laws to modern technologies that not only help people, but also allow various abuses. It is perfectly normal for me to support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u180	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that in my previous job as a police officer, I myself have faced crimes against sexual inviolability, both rape and sexual violence, sexual abuse of a weak person and sexual assault on a person under 15 years of age. None of these perverted and horrible acts can leave you indifferent. Such acts leave irreparable consequences on the victim and on her loved ones. I don't know which crimes are worse – the ones against life and the body or the ones against sexual inviolability, as some say, kill the soul of a man. When such an action occurs, the victim will sooner or later be confronted with procedures in which he reanimates the act; and of course he also encounters the accused and his lawyers, who are trying to convince the judge and the public that the act has not been committed or are looking for a procedural error, which is why the perpetrator tries to avoid liability. All of this puts the victim in some sort of re-victimization. He cannot understand that someone with such or other legal manoeuvres can listen or even avoid responsibility for such a perverted act. It is therefore right to talk about these things today, to respond quickly to possible anomalies or even shortcomings and to seek appropriate solutions. While we already have institutes in place that otherwise regulate sexual inviolability in the section of the Penal Code, such as Article 90 of the Penal Code, which provides that the time limits for the limitation of offences against sexual inviolability begin to run from age to age, or, for example, the limitation does not run at a time when prosecution is not allowed under the law or to continue; or when the perpetrator is unattainable for example because he is on the run; or even if the convicted person has escaped from the sentence of imprisonment, even the execution of the remainder of the sentence does not expire. However, it should be borne in mind that victims are not generally met until decades later by having been sexually abused, especially if this happened in childhood; however, the same rules governing the length of prosecution as all other offences with the exception mentioned above are applicable to offences against sexual inviolability. In practice, however, this does not necessarily mean a substantial extension of the limitation period. While the Council of Justice points out that changing legislation that is not the result of an in-depth professional debate too quickly and too poorly does not help to strengthen legal certainty in society, it can also lead to significant obstacles to the effective and responsible enforcement of the judiciary by the courts in their operations. But still, let's ask ourselves when it's time for change. My personal opinion is that the time is now; perhaps it has been before. It is therefore right to start talking about this and to further stimulate the competent to start looking for appropriate solutions. While we have a proposal ahead of us, in fact, we also have an opportunity to complete it, to put it into some legal and factual framework. Legal experts may rightly point out that any quick, simplified and professionally unverified amendment to the provisions of the Penal Code may be problematic. But on the other hand, in the real world, there are anomalies that we cannot quickly and effectively repair because the legislation reacts too slowly. This can also be seen in the deterioration of the situation in Dolenjska or Kočevska, as we have seen in the last days, which are the result of systemic shortcomings, as well as inconsistencies, irregularities, perhaps even the surfaces of those responsible. I am pleased, however, that the Ministry of Justice has also announced changes to the Penal Code in this work and that the necessary debate is already being held with the professional stakeholders. And that is why I will also support the bill in this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Let's get the mags ready. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today’s views, the debates we heard, were highly emotional. I was particularly touched by the position of colleague Meire, who described some examples of this unacceptable act. An individual who is a victim of sexual abuse is facing a difficult test. The very nature of such crimes poses a serious trauma to an individual, and unfortunately, even long-standing judicial proceedings always restore the victim to the time of the horror he experienced. Therefore, before such a victim, it is difficult to test — whether to report abuse or to suppress it in the subconscious, or to live with it, or to die. Most of the victims are women, weaker and underage children. Women usually feel guilty and seek their responsibility not to be able to resist. In particular because, unfortunately, there are stereotypes in society that blame a woman. That is why it is so much more important that we start talking about this today. Women who are victims prefer to retreat because of trauma, shut themselves down, even think about self - injury, and often completely isolate themselves from the environment. Unfortunately, however, they also fear revenge against the perpetrators. It is only years after the victims have come to terms with the fact that this is not good for them that they are able to deal with long-term judicial proceedings, to report crimes, especially in the case of juvenile victims. It is a sad fact, however, that the report of the victim's crime is again traumatising, which is also, unfortunately, the result of the non-professional behaviour of people, and of whom the victim expects some sympathy and assistance. Kids, their experience is so much more difficult. Their knowledge, their experience, has an impact on life in adulthood, as is evident later, especially when you talk to the victims who received it in the early days of their youth. It is known in their relationships when victims have difficulties in establishing and maintaining physical and intimate relationships. Their trust is completely shattered, their attitude toward themselves or their body changes, they feel resistance, they feel abominable, their self-images collapse, they feel worthless, they feel worthless, they are incompetent, not able to overcome different situations in life. The voids they feel, we don't know which thank God we haven't been able to describe; but from the talks, I have to say that these are the traumas that touch you. It's very hard to help them, you can only listen. There are also influences on mental health. These are depressions that also behave in older years. It can also make their daily life and feelings worse. I must say that rape is an act that not only destroys the integrity of the victim, but destroys the victim as a person, its right to feel physically, changes the attitude towards one's own body, the attitude towards others, the attitude towards others. I must say, for me, such a sacrifice is also, unfortunately, mentally dead. And that is why I think it is right that this topic should be opened up, as mentioned in the debate, to foresee a public presentation of opinions, an expert's opinion, whether the way of these outdated deadlines or not is correct, as we must be aware that the bravest heart can fail and become a victim of sexual assault. And when the victim is picked up, just to encourage her, she must not hold back fear, nor pride, nor the law, to turn to an institution that must condemn such practices in the future, for there must certainly be zero tolerance for sexual violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbich has the floor. But get ready for Mrs. Nina Maurovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague, a very nice greeting! In the introduction, let me start with a very clear sentence: I am a great advocate of zero tolerance for sexual abuse. I can also say that we can all be a little disappointed that it has only just now come to this; because we have a number of references to neglect in the Penal Code. You would expect this category to be protected in some way after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, because we know that these so-called sexual abuses occur mainly in young people, children, minors. It's that group that we usually have our mouths full of, how we take care of them and protect them. I believe that sexual abuse is one of the worst forms of crime, and I even allow myself to say – the worst form. Why is this my humble thinking like that? First of all, because we simply have no idea what such a person is going through, let alone after the event. And if we're back in the youth category, they have life ahead of them, and these traumas are usually almost irreplaceable. Unfortunately, this is a cruel reality. In this matter, force is important when we sometimes talk – not only in a political sense, but also in a professional way – about the comparison of delinquency and the like. For this reason, I have consciously mentioned that this is indeed the worst form of crime, because compared to crimes that have material content, after such an event, some satisfactions, satisfactions, real estates, movements, money and all that is similar are simply incomparable. For the dignity of man, which is caused by sexual abuse, cannot be replaced in life. And what I welcome is the proposal of the proposer that all we can do is to amend this provision of the Penal Code primarily for a strong message value to those persons who are or who are in some direction – because we know that there is some rejection of individuals in every society – that we are also going into a system where there is or there will be no zero tolerance for such crimes. The fact is, in this case, when we talk about sexual abuse, they call on themselves to protect these so-called vulnerable groups. It is perfectly normal for me to expect policy to be unified in this case as a Member. I believe that the profession here will have problems in one way or another how to reconcile this matter with all aspects, but if I just conclude, this so-called zero tolerance in these matters must be in a society in which we are very clearly and transparently informed. As evidence of this, when we received this material from the proposer, it is also well attached to the material, which shows that a recent consultation of the law enforcement authorities of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the competent experts, was also on the subject of sexual abuse. What we need to worry about in this case is their finding that the rise in the sexual abuse of minors in the Republic of Slovenia is high. I welcome this initiative. It was also said by the proposer that they expected to move forward with this procedure, so that a public presentation of the opinions would also be included. I think it's the right way for the profession to also somehow unify and then end this change in due course. Once again, I support this matter and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Nina Maurovich. Let me read some more of the following debaters, followed by Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Tadeja Šuštar, Iva Dimic and Nik Prebil. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd start with the words that mag is. Tonin pointed out in his address that this national assembly must today, and I also say in general, very often and repeatedly give a clear message that we have zero tolerance for any violence, especially sexual abuse. I must say that I have made it very difficult for myself to go over your proposal and beyond the rest of the material, because it is personally unimaginable that such actions, such degulant acts in this society, exist in 2019 at all. That seems incomprehensible to me. I always wonder what kind of person you have to be to be able to do something like that to your fellow man. So I think that in this debate today I would go a little bit wider, I would focus a little bit on our social problems and I would like to draw attention to the basic problem; and this is that we have the feeling that the victims are not empowered, that they are not brave victims. There are data that about 20% of the victims go into reporting such acts, 20% of them are really small. Also, the information that we have in court every year about 70 convictions in connection with acts of sexual violence, I think that each of us directly or directly knows someone who has been the victim of sexual violence. These 70 convictions are, unfortunately, a small number because we know that real numbers are significantly larger. Why don't they decide to report such attacks? I think there's also a lot to be done with some stigma that the victim's gonna get hold of. Sadly, many times in our society have come to the point that even family members are urging victims not to report sexual abuse. Unfortunately, we still have that saying — what others will say and what the neighbors will say. And that's terrible for my notions. And that is also the reason why some cases are outdated or very late applications. The next problem is a general social perception and environmental attitude. I think that Slovenians still have too much tolerance for alcohol abuse and other types of drinking, very often precisely alcoholism and alcohol abuse lead to such acts. He is also very acceptable among young people, for we know that this is cited as an excuse among young people — I was drunk; I was drunk and there she was. We must also make this absolutely clear that this is not acceptable. I've already talked about condemning the victim. For example, in this society, I am still surprised by the lack of dignity, especially for women. Some vulgar proposals became quite normal in 2019. A vulgar suggestion to a woman is not the same compliment. Even if a woman is kind and courteous while a violent person is drowning, it does not mean that she is flirting with him or that she wants any interaction. I think society's too flexible here, too. A woman isn't a sex object either, even if she's attractive, whether she's okay or she's aware of it. That's not what we're talking about. I would also draw attention to the relationship of some people who are authoritarians; and that of young people. I'd like to give you an example that I know. At one high school, a boy exerted some pressure on a girl. It was about sex, sending photos, blackmailing and so on. When this girl, the victim, complained to a friend about it — 16 - year - olds solve it a little differently than we did when we were grown up — these two boys fell apart. I don't advocate violence being saved by violence, but the epilogue of all this was that those responsible at school gave both boys the same punishment. What was the message for this boy's victim? Not at all. She got the feeling that no one would help her because she was being punished for help. Let's just let it go, like I said, that I don't agree that he got into a fight. With regard to the boy who abused, I strongly doubt that this educational measure that he received and was equal to the one that somehow opposed him would have any effect on him, that it would give him at least a little to think about. The next problem we have is, in my opinion, a rather permissive attitude towards violence, in the form of too mild sanctions. When I did a little digging, in France and Germany they also have life imprisonment in certain cases of rape, of course harder; but it is. We know we don't even know about the murder. And extremely high fines; that we are not talking about the United States of America at all. With them, we know the punishments are really high. We hear of multiple life sentences and, for example, returnees have as many as three times the penalty for the act they committed. And for rape in most federal states, there is no statute of limitations at all. In Slovenia, as we have already heard, these penalties are one to ten years, or three to fifteen years, if there is a terrible act, more perpetrators and so on. I think fifteen years for some ruined life, for traumas, all that we've heard from a colleague before, in my opinion, is very little. Above all, the really outdated deadlines on which this debate revolves today. If I put myself in the skin of a young girl, so that something like this happens to me at the age of fifteen or sixteen, I have to say that I am a very independent, brave, independent woman, at least that's how I feel, but I'm not sure at the age of eleven, if I can get this power to report that action in case it happens to me in my youth. I am not sure at the age of 45; I absolutely agree that these deadlines should be substantially extended. And as we have already heard, sometimes traumas are so severe that these people are so deeply suppressed that they actually remember maybe old years or whatever kind of trigger something like this happens to them to remember. The books of Milena Miklavčič on relations in Slovenian society are very interesting reading or reading, because we see that these roots of violence against women are in fact in some continuous discrimination against women, and this has been consumed in all the times of our society, which has not yet processed all these harmful patterns. I very much agree with this debate and the proposed amendments to the law. I think that there is no woman and that there should also not be a Slovenian who would oppose these proposed changes and not support them. It is true, however, that there is a need to start a professional debate on this subject, on this basis to prepare legal solutions, possible changes. I also call on the proposer and the government to step in this together and in cooperation draw up proposals on the direction of legislative change. Otherwise, I strongly support any strict sanctioning of such acts, in terms of the larger penalties and also in terms of the extension of the limitation period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The proposer took the floor. Here you go, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u188	First of all, I thank Mrs Maurovic for such an interesting debate. She said quite a few examples of how things are. I wanted to add two more quotes to this good debate. One is a quote by Tomaž Piska, who is a lawyer and co-worker of the Civil Initiative for the Protection of Victims of Sexual Abuse in the Church in Slovenia, which is for the First Radio Slovenia programme, said the following: “In the civil initiative Enough.We have received 38 reports of abuse so far and after what we can figure out for ourselves, we believe that the vast majority of these rules are already outdated.” 38 applications and most are already outdated. We absolutely support this change because we do not think it appropriate for the perpetrators to remain unpunished simply because of the statute of limitations. And experience — not only ours but also from abroad — confirms that on average victims need decades before they talk about abuse. For this reason, we believe that the extension of these limitation periods is essential. The last amendment to the 2008 Penal Code did not give rise to a sufficient extension of these deadlines, because even after this amendment, several of the cases that we have encountered in the initiative would be obsolete. So this is a concrete example of a person who deals specifically with sexual abuse and says that our current legislation, as far as time is concerned, is inadequate. The next quote is a quote by Sanja Rozman, a doctor and psychotherapist from the Institute of Change in Heart, and also for the Studio show at 5 p.m., and says: “The rejection, if the act is obsolete, is very humiliating for them. Something like this can't go any further, such a serious crime against such a helpless child, a crime that isn't only problematic when it's happening, but that destroys his whole life and perspective, how he'll later form relations with other people. Something like old age is actually a mockery and humiliating to the victims. I think society is for protecting the weaker. I understand that there are complications when laws change, but these complications must somehow be resolved because the victims are powerless if they do not have help from the outside.” And we are here to change the law in a way that adequately protects the victims.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The next one has the word "representative of the government." Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you. I might add this to it myself, although it is difficult to talk about such cases in statistics, but still. About 70 cases have been completed annually in court. Today's debate is, of course, welcome. But I would not want to awaken those false hopes that are fighting today or that are thinking today, because whatever we do will continue. Even if today's event happens, even if we change the law tomorrow, it's still on. Only so much so that this will be known in public why in the past there have been such decisions as will be our future decisions. I believe that we will do our best for the victims so that as few such events as possible will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The proposer shall have the floor again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u192	I agree, of course, no law retroactively applies; but it is important that we do these things as soon as possible, because the longer we delay, the worse it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you. Now Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik has the floor. Here you go. But get Tadey Shuštar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary! I wouldn't repeat everything that's been said around the Penal Code, it's been said a lot. I agree with all of this. There's no excuse, no terrible acts and everything that's been said. In this debate, however, I would also like to draw attention to the prevention that seems crucial to me. Why? I'll explain. I'm also a CAP instructor myself, this is Child Assault Prevention. If you've never heard of him before, I'll explain why he's going. This is a programme for the prevention of violence and child abuse, a primary preventive programme that offers a positive way to address serious and challenging issues, such as violence and sexual abuse of children. Children thus have a positive and, of course, appropriate way of speaking and also playing on situations of violence, abuse; and it strengthens them to be able to respond appropriately and also to protect them. It is very important to me and it would be nice to hear this also in the school ministry, in order to implement such a preventive programme in all schools and in all primary schools and with these skills to strengthen as many children as possible, which would of course make an important contribution to children's ability to protect themselves. When I was a student, I got an education, and that's when I did this program. Of course not for a while now. What did we teach our children in this way? This is how children learn, for the first time, about the rights of all children to be safe, strong and free. This seems to me to be three very important things that children are safe, strong and free. Secondly, how children recognize potentially dangerous situations of violence and abuse, this is what we taught them. Third time, how they respond confidently. Fourthly, how important the help of peers and parents is. And fifthly, how important it is to tell about the experience of violence or of your distress to an adult confidential person. It's not said they're parents. Often, children can tell their experiences at school, at school, at school, at school, at school, or at school. I can tell you my case here when I was a high school teacher. The first hour of school, I usually asked the students what they expected me to do, and they wrote it on a note, anonymously of course. And among all those leaves which they expected of me was a letter that said, Madam Professor, I have been raped. Please help me. And then, believe me, I was breathing a little deep. But since I luckily had the knowledge I had acquired in all my years of education as a student, of course I also reacted accordingly. This girl and I are still on the phone from time to time, and I am glad to have responded as I am sure that every teacher must respond. Maybe there's just something else about this prevention program, because I think it's really important. Children learn from this programme about three situations that could possibly happen to them. The first is violence among peers, of course it's huge in our schools. And it seems important to me that we also talk about this clearly and loudly, that it is necessary to prevent it and teach children how to protect themselves. Then, for another time, we teach them about a situation that could happen to them, that is to say, a stranger kidnapped them as to how they should react. And the third case, the worst case, and even the ones we have done it, is always difficult to do, by example, when a child may be the victim of sexual abuse by an adult he knows. And this situation was very difficult for me when I played it, I have to admit. The use of dolls, role-playing games, photographs and, of course, group discussions are also used. We encouraged our children to work together as actively as possible. I'll tell you another situation, but I won't tell you which school it happened at. But at school it was so acceptable by the management and teachers that the child comes to school and has a chain impression around his wrists. And when I jumped into the luft, they said to me, "You know, that's how they drink fast in this family. Then, of course, it acted correctly because I think that every institution, including the school, is obliged to react when it detects signs of violence. I could say a lot more, but I won't, because this is not meant to be the debate. If we succeed in identifying and stopping violence early enough, preventing it or even reducing it, we can help the victims much more than we know at this point. I therefore welcome this amendment to the legislation, and I would like to draw up as soon as possible a number of possible systemic measures that will need to be addressed as soon as possible in this positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Sexual abuse is the most repudiated crimes that we all probably agree with. It does not matter who the perpetrator is or how this crime was committed, but it is important to realize that sexual abuse marks the victims for life. They are caused by psychological consequences, especially in minors or in children who have not yet reached the age of 18. Young people do not trust the elderly, and sexual abuse is often not revealed, but they are suppressed into unconsciousness because they do not want to talk about it. The perpetrators are usually their neighbors and members of their immediate or extended family, or those who are their guardians. In these cases, acts are carried out by deception to lure children, offering them some advantages. And this is even more perverted and unworthy of man. In Slovenia we have so far some crimes that are not obsolete, such as genocide, crimes against humanity, war of crime, aggression, the responsibility of military commanders and other superiors, combining and protecting genocide, crimes against humanity or aggression. These crimes should also be accompanied by crimes against sexual inviolability. The proposed supplement would be a relief for the victims of these crimes, as they would also have the opportunity to prosecute the perpetrator after a long time. It is well known that it is only after a long period of time that they are encouraged to recognise and pursue these procedures. I therefore welcome the proposed supplement and will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic gets the word. Get Nick Prebil ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of course, such a topic is not pleasant, but it seems to me that the law we have drafted and filed in New Slovenia is going in the right direction to prevent what seems to me to be the most rejected act in every society; and this is certainly sexual abuse or violation of sexual inviolability. What to do when someone confesses to you or when you know a person who is sexually abused; when you know him, you ask yourself many times. First, you probably follow the victim’s time, then you follow the perpetrator’s time, and then you think about what happened in the main, that he has moved, and that such a distorted, distorted act has occurred. The fact is, however stigmatized the victims feel, all these perpetrators are always one step ahead of them, one way or another — either by blackmailing or by making promises or by apologizing. And these victims are probably — I think — confused, unaware of whether they are really guilty or worthy of it; these are their questions. Of course, they need someone who says, "Look, this has been rejected, an unacceptable act. In Slovenia, it seems to me that one such society, which seeks some democracy and respect for human rights, is unacceptable; so it is up to all of us to prepare such legislation to protect the victims who are the weakest in our society. Also interesting is the fact that we have a lot of domestic violence, a lot of violence against women. In the coming weeks, there will be a world day of violence against women. It seems to me that it is necessary to understand, although we want to establish equality between men and women in society, that women are still slightly more vulnerable, that despite all the equality on paper, they are still weaker. And that this power of stigma in our society is still so deep that simply these victims remain behind four walls. This stigma that someone would know what happened to you is so strong and so negative in our society that the victims are afraid to say, they're afraid to confess. And as I said earlier, in many cases they seek fault with themselves — what I did wrong to make it happen to me. I would like to be able, together with the Minister, and also with you fellow Members, to amend the law on the prevention of violence so that the victim has greater real protection. I'm talking mainly about when the victim submits a complaint that he feels threatened, and then this police action is the judge first at the beginning of three days, then it's six months. And when the victim says, despite the past six months, that he still feels threatened, and makes an application for an extension of the approximation measure, there may be a re-decision within a month. In that month, she was not formally protected as a victim, so the victim should be trusted if she says that she still feels threatened, that this would be somehow quicker arranged. Just a year ago, I accepted one of these victims, who said: I submitted an application in June to extend the approximation, because they were allowed in July and August, of course, I am without this protection and I hope to get my protection back in September, October. I want us to believe that this effect when someone says that they feel threatened and that the victim is on the part of the competent authorities that can arrange it, even hearing, even if it is the police or whatever. But if this person feels threatened, it should have this protection, because in Slovenia we have regrettably also some such cases when even the worst cases for these victims occurred during this period. I want the marriage to truly serve what it is meant to do. And that the people who are victims will have this legal protection. that they will be able to take this step when they are courageous and when they have to put things together as they need to be able to report that it will not be at the end when they realize that this matter is obsolete. That seems to me like the victim killed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you. I would like to point out that, when we have considered the last amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, we may be too much, if I may say too much, or in particular talk about other problems: the IMSI hunters, the house investigation, what has been disputed by certain Members. It is also known that not all supported this novel; but we did not say enough about what the latest novels of the law on criminal proceedings would bring to victims. I said in the introduction that on 20 October this novel will also enter into force, which will constitute a substantial different treatment for the victims. At that time, not the ministry, not the judiciary, not the prosecution, not the police, not the MNZ, not the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. We have prepared a rally – I think this week is in the final reading, that it goes into design and then into the press – which they will have in particular at the police, the prosecutor's office, which will describe in more detail the rights and situation of the victim. However, it may only be possible to list some: for example the right of the injured person in the pre-trial procedure to be particularly careful and considerate, where necessary for reasons of vulnerability such as age, health, disability or other similar circumstances; to use his or her language; to the presence of a confidential person who can be selected on his or her first contact with the competent authority; to be represented by an attorney who may also be a lawyer if you are a minor in certain criminal cases; to be appointed by the court if you do not first select one; to be entitled to free medical, psychological and other assistance, as well as to the support provided by the centres for social work and other organisations; to be aware of the possibility of assistance and measures under the Domestic Violence Prevention Act; and to mention that I will not now read. What seems most important to me here to highlight is, at this time, the very good cooperation of all the authorities, especially the police, including the judiciary, to approach not only the development of the brochure, but mainly the education, the training of all their employees, the way they must approach the victim; to move slowly from the fact that the victim will feel awkward, that she will want to hide, that she will not reveal herself, that they will ask her – well, girls, how are you dressed, and why have you been drinking? But it'll be a fitting performance for the victim. We are aware that this will not change overnight, but in this way it will also in time mean that the victims will decide easier to report the perpetrator and also seek help. During this time, we will indeed carry out a series of educations, some trainings are already under way, legal training will be changed; and, together with NGOs, also in order to inform the general public of these new rights, which will enter into force by amending the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to inform them, educate them and provide assistance in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for that. Replica only because, perhaps in my implementation, I was not correct enough or precise enough. What really hurts is that the victims have to move out of the apartment and the abuser stays in the apartment. And we're withdrawing the victim. That was when we had the code when we accepted it. I think we should take a look around here. The victim is a victim of psychological, physical violence, then he has to withdraw from the apartment with no basic resources, no financial means, and the abuser stays in the apartment. This may be part of the anomaly, but I believe if we talk about it, we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Nick Prebil. Get Mr. Jernej Vrtovec ready and as the last mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary! Thank you for this intervention. I'm really happy that this area will be settled. The subject matter we are talking about is truly extremely sensitive and any abuse such or otherwise is unacceptable; even such as sexual violence; it is a perverse act. And what kind of society we are that we don't know how to make that clear. The fact is certainly more than we know them, because many victims, due to traumatic consequences, injuries or anything else, do not gather enough courage and strength to face the perpetrator again in order to persecute him; procedures may also become obsolete. No one, no punishment and no excuse, weighs this trauma and the psychological consequences the victims have for these acts. Sometimes we read that there's even talk about any mitigating circumstances of the perpetrators, and I'm really speechless here. And then I read the news – Ljubljana, April 29th: The Supreme Court, following a report of the Journal in case of sexual assault, attached a higher court and thereby confirmed a ten-month prison sentence for the defendant. Are we even aware of what this is telling the victim? That she went through the whole process, played it all over her head again, reanimated; and then the perpetrator gets a ten - month prison sentence. He'll be good in prison, he'll do some community service, and God knows when he's out there. I'll finish this in time-sharing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Let him prepare, as it were, mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you so much and have a good day together! I say that we have done little in society to deal effectively with this burning social issue, such as sexual violence against the weak, especially the weakest, the children; which is present everywhere, in the family, in schools, in kindergartens, even in the church, in school activities and so on. Guys like us, we need to move on. Step forward is certainly the law proposed by Nova Slovenije. And I'm sure we need to talk about this very sensitively. It's a really neat social theme. It is on the one hand a very cruel crime, I stress once again, against those who cannot defend themselves, and it is a very cruel abuser; and on the other hand, often a completely powerless victim, a helpless victim. And so it's a perverted, completely disgusting act. When we talked to certain clinical psychologists, including psychiatrists, and so on, when the consequences of sexual assaults actually come about, say, in the childhood of a certain individual; ladies and gentlemen, in a few decades, what an individual felt as a child can be reflected. In a few decades. And these consequences are very difficult to correct. This law, proposed by Nova Slovenija, is in particular that we give a signal to all potential perpetrators of these crimes, in the notes I say, you can never escape from the time of justice. And that's the key factor in this marriage. For he who commits such a crime, that he may sexually abuse the child, this one deserves to be pursued forever by the state, that our legal system may persecut him forever, to the point of disability. That's all that's right. And in practice, we have been approached by civil initiatives dealing with the detection of sexual abuse. They found that in many cases these criminals were moving up and down, and left to right, but nothing happened to them; but on the other hand, these children grew up and still suffer. These people are suffering to death. It is certainly a step forward to jointly reaffirm this law, so that the potential perpetrators of these crimes are given a clear signal, now politics and further our justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you very much. And as the last one gets the word "magic." Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u208	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. I'm gonna let myself get a little emotional at first, too. The Minister also said that, as a woman and as a mother, she welcomed the improvement in this area. As the father of a primary school girl, sometimes I say that when I think about my daughter starting to go out, I get a little worried about the teenagers, of course, even in this preadolescent age, when she's still a teenager, given that we know what's going on. You'll understand why this stake. As far as the proposer's material is concerned, there's an artificial dilemma on the other side of the left. What is the meaning of a criminal sanction that comes late or too late? Various questions arise as to the meaning of punishing, say, in Germany, the elderly Nazis. Yes, the answer is very simple — that justice is sufficient. Justice must be served. And as my colleague Vrtovec said earlier, this time frame of justice will be ever longer than these perpetrators of these discarded crimes, whether it be a nation in the case of Nazi villains or an individual, an individual who has been or has been sexually abused or abused. I believe that this proposal will be confirmed at first reading, that a broad professional debate can indeed be opened, including in the field of criminal experts, to convene, as has been said, a public presentation of opinions. I am personally disturbed by the fact that now, in this Penal Code, you have noticed, for decades, a ten-year statute of limitations, a 20-year statute of limitations, a 30-year statute of limitations, which are in the context of milder, lighter, heavier and heavier. Any such act, formerly, colleague Hot listed rape, sexual violence, sexual abuse, all of this is rejected. And after all these decades and years, I think it's wrong. It would apply here when the debate gives a broader picture to at least here at the beginning of the unification; and this at the upper limit. Thirty years, 30 years. These unfortunate children who have been abused will have the opportunity to prosecute the perpetrator by the age of eighty-eight. Mag. Tonin has also quoted certain experts before, and I have found one, Mr Dragan Petrovec. We all know him, a great expert at the Institute of Criminology, recently said he had a political week. In his view, the question of the age-old age for crimes against sexual inviolability is legitimate because the victims, especially in the case of childhood, are generally not reached until a decade later. That is why this proposal raises the real question. And once again to colleagues who may have had some dilemmas. I think that, given the extensive interpretation of those we support, I am somehow knocking on them, not on their conscience, but in fact on their common sense, that Slovenia is mature enough to condemn such sexual abuse on a political level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister and the representative of the proposer. First he gets the word, Madam Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u210	I'd say in gentlemen's terms, thank you for the perks, but I do have them by the Rules of Procedure. A little joke. Perhaps, as a conclusion, I would also like to say that I am glad that policy, irrespective of global surveillance, has zero tolerance for crimes against general inviolability. But when we talk about the set of crimes against sexual inviolability that this proposal touches and why it still needs to be completed, it is certainly true that we are talking about eight different crimes here. And within that, then these crimes have different life events, whatever. We're talking rape, we're talking about sexual violence, we're talking about sexual abuse of a minor, sexual assault of a person under 15 years of age, the acquisition of persons under 15 for sexual purposes, the violation of sexual inviolability by abuse of the position, the abuse of prostitution, the presentation, manufacture, possession and transmission of pornographic material. But let's not say there's bloodguilt in here because it's not part of a crime against sexual inviolability; but it's covered in other crimes that I've already listed. And in the context of this – yes, for sure longer penalties achieve something, longer limitation periods reach something. Indemnity can accomplish something; but the first thing the state must do is have a system that will convince the victim to report the perpetrator as soon as possible, to seek medical, psychological assistance to protect his interests, for in 30 years, in 40 years, let us not do a pretender, the evidence in court will be almost impossible. It's not right for the victims to be told at any time now. No, they have to decide as soon as possible. As soon as possible, because in 40 years, the perpetrators may no longer be alive or will not remember the Witnesses. Usually, in these events, there is no witness, and the word against the word is against the word of the other. Such actions should therefore be reported as soon as possible. We must do everything we can to make the system possible for the victims as soon as possible. Of course, longer sentences, longer limitation periods, obsolescence also has other effects, that's what I wanted to say. But maybe all this time I haven't mentioned another inter-resortary project that we have, which is Barnahus - A House for Children, where we want in one place in a multi-disciplinary and inter-institutional, a child-friendly treatment in the so-called Children's House to be able to treat the child and also to help all the services in one place, so that such children will not then be exposed to revictimisation or testimony in front of different organs, from doctors, police, prosecutions, courts and everything. We still have a legal problem on how to place this house for children in our legislation and how to place it within the health system itself. I hope that we will get quotas for the proper employment of experts involved. Even the smallest problem will be the financial resources that I think we will receive through incentives from the European Union or the Norwegian mechanism, but we will also inform you of this in any way. Thank you for today's debate. I hope that we will all have our support together in the future when we come up with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u212	Initially, I sincerely thank everyone for the cultured as well as for the substantive good debate. We are aware that sexual abuse is a very difficult matter and that we have different crimes. If we move forward in these changes, which the Minister predicts will be clearer definitions, this will be one very important thing. Clearer definitions are then also crucial and very important in the further pursuit. This includes various penalties. But the key message of the amendments to the law proposed by Nova Slovenije is that persecution is never outdated. It is a message to all these criminals that the time limit of justice will reach them only once. Of course, there's no automatism here, either. Even those of you who have spoken today about any false feelings here are not automatics. Even when the victim decides on this very important action, it is necessary to go to court and prove to the court that this has happened. Certainly, the dispersion is not always self-evident, even though it may seem at first sight. However, I think it is imperative that politics even remove the obstacle that someone on this road can have. So let's get rid of these out-of-date hands, which has brought courage to someone who has decided to clean up this past, at least by legal means, to allow at least the possibility of justice being served. Because now many examples have shown that these options are not, because things are relatively outdated, in some cases already in ten years. In view of today's debate, I believe that the law will be adopted at first reading, that we will certainly accept here the Ministry's and the Ministry's hand, that even in accordance with what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly will say, we will complement our proposal. And like I said, this is going to be the beginning of real zero tolerance for sexual abuse, because then no one will be able to cheat and do everything that some thing is obsolete, because they simply won't be able to do it anymore. This first step, however, will have to be followed by others we have also talked about today; and I believe they will be realized. As I said, thank you all once again for a quality debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Since I see it's an interest, I'm going to open up an application for debate. We have three panellists reported. The first one gets the word Mrs. Matey Udowicz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u214	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I think only as a mother of two children and as a woman about the sexual abuse of children or sexual abuse in general, I find it difficult to think about what it would be like to do. [[…]] In actions against sexual inviolability, there is a markedly large interference with human dignity. As a rule, it has serious consequences for the victims it has for life. Only if I think about it when I remember the trials that were going on, how terrible it must be. I agree with the minister, who said that we must all strive to have the victims decide their application as soon as possible. Although if I thought about trying to get into their shoes, it would be very difficult for me to decide to apply, it should be very bad already. I mean, if I were to be an abused child, and if I were to turn myself in only when I was 18 or later, and if I thought I was 45 years old, reporting abuse that was supposed to happen hypothetically to me when I was ten years old, then I'd open up that wound again. Although I agree, yes, zero tolerance, as Mr Tonin said. The increase in the sensitivity of the judgment of the company to such acts is fully understandable. And it is only right that we seek zero tolerance. Specially repulsive, disgusting, and low-level acts are child sexual abuse, as they constitute a serious violation of children’s rights. They often cause lasting, irreparable consequences in their lives for the rest of their lives. Fortunately, though, we are well aware of this in Slovenia. Therefore, in Article 90, paragraph 3, of the Penal Code, the legislator adopted a provision whereby the limitation period for sexual inviolability-related offences and for offences against the marriage, family and youth committed against a minor begins only after the victim has reached the age of full age. This is an important provision, since most abused children are deeply affected by this experience and are only aware of it in later, more mature years. So we don't just talk about obsolescence. We should probably also discuss the level of penalties and other criminal sanctions in this context. I therefore believe that this issue must be addressed comprehensively and professionally. In all of this, I miss the opinion and arguments of the penologists, psychologists and sociologists on how to justly sanction the perpetrators and how best to help the victims of these acts. Of course, we must also take into account legal experts in the field of criminal law and all others working in this area. We must be aware that the penalty imposed or carried out for a crime after a long period of time is no longer a preventive effect. The fact is, too, that over time the possibilities of proof are being made more difficult. Some facts are very difficult to prove, but some may not be proved at all. This may increase the possibility of judicial error. There is therefore a great potential for the so-called Indicative Judgment, which consequently reduces legal certainty. I therefore expect this issue to be addressed comprehensively and professionally. Criminal law deeply affects human rights and the freedoms of victims and alleged perpetrators. Therefore, we need to be careful with swift, simplified and professionally unverifiable decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thank you. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u216	Madam Vice President, thank you very much again. I'll be very brief. I just want to finish what I didn't do before because I ran out of time. When I read this news about these prison sentences, which have also been reduced to the use of a milder crime in relation to what has been committed. I don't know if I should cry from some shame or if I should be taken out of shock because these people who do this are really social freaks, in my personal opinion, I don't know if I'd ever let them out of the street again. I know that the proposal that has been made does not only change the statute of limitations, but, as colleague Udovč said, it would probably also be worth considering the amount of punishment for the perpetrators. Because really to these acts, especially if someone does this to a child, I am, as my colleagues say, really without any tolerance. And since this is a really sensitive subject, I expect really thorough analysis and data on this comprehensive change in the area. However, I do not want them to cause cases to fall in court because of rapid changes and some unwise decisions because of some procedural matters, because that is not what the real victims and no one involved deserves. I would really like the matter to be filled and filled with possible legal gaps. As has been said, I really want the proposer and the ministry to coordinate here and all of us together, because as a society, we must make progress and condemn such matters strictly. The National Assembly, as an institution of democracy, must give a clear message that this is unacceptable. Above all, I would like to say another point that procedures, even in these matters, must be really fast and effective. I will, of course, support the matter at first reading. Madam Minister, I truly respect you and believe that the matter will be properly regulated, that appropriate proposals will be made by the Ministry and by the professions, what and how. Vice President, thank you for today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u217	Thank you very much. He's got the word "magic" as the last one. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u218	I would like to take today's debate into five key points. For one thing, we need to talk a lot about these things, to create a positive climate that is favourable to victims, and to encourage them to decide to prosecute the perpetrators. Secondly, we need to make it clear that any sexual violence is unacceptable. Thirdly, it would be good if these things didn't get old. If someone gathers the courage to have the opportunity to get justice in court. Fourthly, a clearer definition of all these sex crimes will help to make the prosecution more effective. Fifthly, we will also have to talk seriously about the amount of punishment, because punishment can also significantly deter individuals from doing things. Thank you so much for today. As our group leader has already proposed, we will not rush these things. Before the second hearing, we will also propose a public presentation of opinions that, in addition to policy, the profession can also be involved, so that the legal profession can also tell how to deal with these things. I think that today the message of legislators was clear – zero tolerance for this. However, how to finalize and regulate this legally, legal experts can also say and add their contribution to the regulation of this area. Finally, we can make a good package with this work and with the minister's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 11th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good luck!
