ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franz Runczek, Victory Elinčič Noble, mag. Bojana Muršič from 11 a.m. to 14 p.m., Janez Janša and Suzanne Lepi Šimenka. With this, honourable Members, we move on to 10. Agenda item — First draft of the Act on Complements of the Law on the Community of Students. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you, President. Nice hello to you all! In recent months we have been able to monitor many stories by the media, what the Student Organisation of Slovenia is doing. On the basis of what we could see, we were only further strengthened by the belief that the Student Organisation of Slovenia no longer enjoys the public's reputation as it should or as it should be earned by such an organization. There has been a lot of talk about the fact that there is no control that money is intranspariently spent, not just public money, but money that students and students, students and students spend through student work, part of concessions resulting from student work, half of it comes to the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which amounts to between €10m and €12m per year. It's the kind of surveillance they have, but it's internal. Those who could watch Tarča, I think, for the first time or the second time, well, because I don't know, I don't even remember, I know that two of them were there in one month when the main supervisor of the Student Organisation of Slovenia came in front of the camera and he couldn't say anything about the basic control issue. Three times his reporter told him, he couldn't answer three times. This is why we decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend the law that is before you today, which would allow for the supervision of the operation of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. To be clear, we certainly do not want politics to interfere with the work of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The student organisation of Slovenia must be autonomous, even though we know about which policies or representatives of whose underages the Student Organisation of Slovenia are always in control, but today it makes no sense if the debate is constructive. It is a fact that supervision of the use of financial resources must be introduced. And that's all. Although politics still creates policy in some way and the work of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, when the state authorities organise or make a call and offer some content. By applying for this invitation to tender, the Student Organisation of Slovenia shall declare exactly such content as is the subject of this invitation to tender. It is said that if, for example, the Youth Office – not only applies to the Student Organisation, but also to other youth organisations – makes a call where the main theme is the environment, then if they want to get some funding, the Student Organisation of Slovenia or someone else will have to deal with this topic. In some ways, it also creates itself indirectly, and at least if not already created, it directs this policy. We are not for policy to dictate what the Student Organisation of Slovenia should do, but we are for state authorities to exercise control over the spending of the funds received by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Therefore, we have prepared a small correction, namely that in the second paragraph of Article 3, "the student organisation of Slovenia is a legal person" is added the word "public law". They will therefore be subject to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Control of the Court of Auditors, the Law on Public Information and so on. In view of the Government's opinion and given that some representatives of the parliamentary groups have already discussed this subject, if you keep your word, there is a high likelihood that this bill will be confirmed in the first reading. Then I think that in the second reading we must all sit together and debate how to accurately formulate this thing. Some are in favour of writing down that the Student Organisation of Slovenia is a public person of public law, others are in favour of it, and this is also advocated by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which does not object on the basis of this law, but does not add public law, but we only define it. In particular, there is a kind of wage problem here, not to fall below the public sector's wages or not to be the public sector's salary scale, but simply to write a limit on wages so that the highest wages can be so short of the average gross Slovenian salary. If this law helps us to get through this first reading, then it is best that, as we have already discussed, we sit together and prepare an amendment that will suit everyone, which will also be in line with the guidelines of the Legislative and Legal Service and do something positive for the student organisation in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Jernej Stromajer, you have the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u4	Nice hello to you all! The current Law on the Community of Students, which regulates the operation and activities of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, was adopted in 1994 and has not yet been amended. Taking into account social and other changes, in the past several different attempts have already been made to prepare its changes, but there has been no success. For example, at one of its regular meetings in March 2017, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the conclusion that the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Student Affairs proposes to meet an inter-ministerial working group to prepare a new law on the student community in order to examine the various comments to invite the government service for legislation and all the different stakeholders. That attempt was not successful at the time, the reasons are well known. However, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, after the first meeting of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for student issues in this mandate, held on 13 March 2019, has already joined itself on the basis of work already done at the level of the working groups to prepare the text of the new law on the community of students, which already includes in its draft legislative solutions which define the Student Organisation of Slovenia as a self-governance and autonomous person of public law and also includes others, in our opinion, the necessary legislative changes, such as the supervision of the Court of Auditors over the correct and prudent use of the resources of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and its organisational forms, the appropriate legal financing of the SOS, the legal commitment of the SOS and its organisational forms, the provision of information of public nature and their submission to the laws governing of the student organisation of the procurement process and the subjectivity of the SOS and its organisational forms, the anti-corruption provisions of the Law on the integrity and the prevention of corruption of corruption, and the regulation of the form of the form of the organisation of the student organisation of the organisation of the higher organisation of the university and the organisation of the organisation of the selection of the university. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of how important it is that students have their own organisation, which represents all Slovenian students and is an interlocutor of the country in all important decisions affecting the student population, with such an organisation acting in a coordinated manner and in accordance with the applicable legislation. In the opinion of the Government, the proposed Act on Complementation of the Law on the Community of Students should be supplemented by the legal form of a public legal person, as it could be automatically incorporated into system-wide legal arrangements – Fiscal Rules Act, Finance Act and its other rules – the Law on the Court of Auditors, the Public Procurement Act and so on. The definition that it is a legal person of public law is not sufficient, since the Student Organisation of Slovenia will, on the basis of the proposed law, be highly likely to be classified in the State sector, meaning that it will have to calculate surpluses in accordance with the Public Finance Act. That Article provides for the equalisation of surpluses for the State, municipalities, public funds, public institutions, agencies and other institutional units of the State sector. If the student organisation does not operate in the status form of a public fund, a public institution or an agency, this means that it will have to calculate surpluses by reducing the net profit shown for the purposes of Article 230(1) of the Company Act and half of such reduced net profit will have to be recorded in a separate account as a surplus of the institutional unit of the sector of the State. In the event that it is a matter of determining the SOS as a legal person of public law sui generis, the Government points out that the status of a legal person of public law of sui generis does not solve all issues, as this does not automatically mean that it is subject to the provisions of system laws as applicable to legal persons of public law, such as public institutions, public agencies and public funds. The legislative framework for the operation of legal persons governed by public law lays down rules governing the system of public servants, the system of public sector wages, public finances, public procurement, access to information of a public nature and others, each law defining legal persons of public law for the purpose of its application. For that reason, in the case of a person of public law, its application should be regulated for that purpose. For this reason, the consequences of such an arrangement for the SOS should also be regulated in the event of a change in the status quo and a possible derogation in the previously mentioned system-wide legislation should be regulated. The Government welcomes the appropriate legal arrangements of the public and legal entity of the SOS and the proper establishment of the Court of Auditors over the operation of the SOS and the proposal of the Law on Complementation of the Law on the Community of Students, so it does not oppose, provided that, during the legislative procedure, it is adequately complemented by provisions which will fully regulate the organisational form of the SOS, as well as any remaining issues that will arise as a result of the new organisational form, and that the transitional provisions in which the deadline will be set will also provide a comprehensive regime for the transformation of the SOS into a new status form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have the first word, Mr Tomaž Lisec, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! We do not meet for the first time in this National Assembly in recent years with this law. Why? We have already discussed a similar law at the meeting of the Education Committee in October 2016. We have not adopted the law, but we have adopted the next decision, which I think is binding. We're sad he hasn't been accepted yet. I quote: "The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth calls on the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, on the basis of the discussions held and the public presentation of opinions in the National Assembly, within the framework of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for student issues and together with the general public, to approach the preparation of a new law of the student community without delay. The activities in this regard should be reported to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth by the end of 2016." Another one of those matters that the former Minister and the former Government have not done. 2016 passed, 2017 passed, 2018 passed. And in 2019, because there was no positive response to anything going to happen, in the SDS Group we did what we expected from others, we tabled a new Law on the Community of Students. As the Secretary of State himself has said, since 1994, this law, despite extensive media stories, has not been made new in the form of a more transparent functioning and, in particular, a more efficient use of public funds. Because it is not only the operation of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which falls from the sky, but it is the money of students and students, students and students who finance their organization by their work. In preparing this law in the SDS Group, we did not question whether we need the Student Organisation of Slovenia as a voluntary or compulsory member of this organisation, but we have exclusively turned to what is urgently needed for change. This is a transparent action with two purposes, which is that the student organisation gets the right status and not only internal control, but above all external control will ensure that students know what is going on with their organisation and that future student officials are committed to transparent work. Just look at the stories in the last months, the years. Get lost, get paid by officials, etc. By this law, in our view, we do what the Supreme Court has already decided in the 2019 judgment when it recognised the student organisation according to the criteria that it must be a person of public law. We therefore also have a court instance which clearly defines that the legislator should address this issue properly. Today there is a law before us, which, at least after we have accepted the leadership of the student organisation in our SDS Group, is also supported by a student organisation. Finally, I thank the Secretary of State for his support for this opinion. Personally and in the SDS Group, we are confident that if we all jointly confirm this law in the first reading today, we will find appropriate legal dictions, that we will do this law in accordance with all the decisions of the Supreme Court and also what is the intention of all of us, both the applicants, the Student Organisation of Slovenia and also the Government, to properly place concepts such as the person of public law and the role of the Court of Auditors in this law. We believe that the correct status will no longer give rise to media stories that defile the good students and defile the organisation that we think is absolutely necessary, but unfortunately in recent months instead of positive Slovenian media outlets, it has written negative stories. If you remember history, they have always been, not only in Slovenia, but mainly in the world students who have known some changes, some development. Unfortunately, however, in Slovenia, in recent years student officials have been more self-employed, with their own projects and with their financial profits. It is therefore right to do what we have been listening to for the last five years in the National Assembly to ensure that the Student Organisation of Slovenia also operates in accordance with the principle of transparency and proper supervision. Therefore, in the SDS Group, as proponents, we support this law and we ask all of you for appropriate support by pressing the key for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Jerca Korča on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! Throughout history, student movements and diverse youth organisations have been based on bringing together, connecting and shaping critical views on current social issues, and we can admit that they have also represented an important part of society in terms of driving social change. We young people represent an important part of society and it is right that we are allowed to unite and organise our interests. Even though the ideal design of student organisation is good, it is still a clever and good system that is always born if it is taken over by individuals who are not primarily important to the community. Individuals who pursue their own partial interest or even more who, in their desire to raise capital, beat and destroy the reputation of credibility of the organisation. We can really ask ourselves here why no government and no policy has begun to regulate this area since 1994. There's probably a lot of reasons. We can also talk about technical ways to accurately write down a legal dictatorship that will, on the one hand, pursue the preservation of the autonomy of student organisation and, on the other hand, introduce appropriate control over the use of funds. It is also difficult to rule out the political influence of student officials who have successfully lobbyed over the years to maintain the existing condition that enabled them to fish in mud. Also, the fear of policy against the mobilisation of students in protests is long-standing negotiations and coordination around changes that have never experienced epilogues. And, yes, there must be a lot of other reasons. With the proposal before us today, we are far from settling the area in an appropriate or optimal way, but in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we have assessed that the proposal for a law on supplementing the Law on the Community of Students in the first reading will be supported, as this will be the first step towards increasing control over the functioning of student organisations. Sometimes it is just necessary to act pragmaticly enough and start to regulate the area step by step. However, we are aware that the general definition of a person under public law does not yet mean that the SOS should comply with all supervisory legislation reviewing the use of public funds. We believe that we should therefore complement the proposal of the law in order to determine which rules actually apply to the operation and functioning of the SOS during the legislative process. It is important that students have their own organisation, which represents all Slovenian students and their interests, to care for the realization of their academic and social rights and could also be listed. It is also true that student organisations are autonomous, but it should be stressed that autonomy does not mean free-standing treatment of public funds. Let us not forget that student organisations are almost exclusively financed from public funds and we do not want misunderstandings to occur. There is nothing wrong with students' organisations having public funds, but they must be held accountable, transparent and cost-effective. It is up to us to prevent further irregular movements and anomalies in student organisations after so many years with appropriate solutions. These anomalies are mostly the responsibility of individuals in leading positions. It is also important to restore greater confidence in the system and student organisation, which is basically not bad. Indeed, it is high time that all those involved in student organisations began to really act not in the interests of their own interests, but in the interests of students and students. Therefore, in the first phase, it is necessary to ensure that the student organisation's financial resources are spent, which is certainly the responsibility of the policy. In the second phase, some guidelines for the operation of student organisations should also be changed and such organisations should be removed from the hands of harmful individuals and returned to the students. The content of defending student rights, drawing attention to the problems of young people, developing social critical thinking and acting only and only for the common benefit of all students must once again become the core of student action. Tourist services, sea voyages, luxury hotel services, disappearing money from hotel rooms, opening champagne, caviar entertainment are not matters of such organisations. And anyone who thinks he can afford and abuse a community of students for his own interests should be evicted. This is not a political task, but a student and a student. It seems to us that the Student Organisation is acting in accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors, the Law on Access to Public Information, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, not least after the Public Finance Act. However, the definition of the SOS as a person of public law does not yet constitute a clear commitment to act in accordance with this sectoral legislation. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we hope that we will find sufficient political will in the course of the legislative process both on the left and on the right hand side and that we will all find a truly meaningful solution to correct this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mag. Marko Koprivc on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u10	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! Let me begin by stressing that the Social Democrats support the integration of students into organisations that care for the rights and interests of students. Students’ organisations are undoubtedly one of the key forms of participation or participation of students in the country’s important decisions through various good projects, and they also take care of the socialisation and integration of young people or students. However, it is certainly not right that public money, taxpayers' money and student money are spent recklessly, untransparently and certainly not for the benefit of students. Also, the Director of the Student Organisation cannot and must not have a higher salary than, for example, the President of the Republic. That on the night of the student party, where 70,000 euros go missing, it looks more like a scenario from what kind of criminal it is, rather than some serious act. This must never happen again, Your Honor and Your Honor. However, it should be stressed that in student organisations there are many people who are doing well in favour of students, so we cannot say that everything in these structures is only bad and wrong. Students must first benefit from student organisation and student organisations. It is therefore necessary to provide students with as much benefit as possible and to be able to spend their free time in quality. Lower prices for attending sports and cultural events, lower prices for cinemas, more programmes to improve the social status of students, activities to improve the situation of students in society. Today's amendment to the law proposes that the law clearly states that the Student Organisation of Slovenia is a person of public law and that the supervision of the legality and purpose of its business and its organisational forms shall be carried out by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, who shall exercise regular supervision every two years. As early as 2011, the Supreme Court had decided that student organisations were persons of public law, as their characteristics show, such as public money financing, public action and their purpose, which was to represent the interests of students. Social Democrats support the record of the status of a person under public law in law, but we do not believe that this will be enough. It is clear that student organisations are subject to certain restrictions, such as the Public Procurement Act, the Public Finance Act. However, it is crucial to limit the salaries of directors and other employees in student organisations. Their salaries should be limited to a salary scale in the public sector or otherwise, but should certainly be comparable to that of other public servants. Consideration should also be given to the possibility of external financial supervision and the possibility of supervision of institutions set up by organisations. All of this should be regulated in this law, so in the course of further deliberation of the law, the Social Democrats will endeavour to complete the matter with certain amendments. Nevertheless, respectable and respected, we must ensure that students maintain a certain degree of autonomy and autonomy, especially when deciding on their own matters. It is crucial that students continue to elect their own representatives, choose their own people to represent and present them in public and create content that they will defend in society. Social Democrats will not be allowed to interfere in any way with their independence in these matters. Social Democrats will therefore be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on the Community of Students as suitable for further consideration. However, we expect, as we say, improvements to the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Branislav Rajić on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u12	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! Since 2016, there has been an intensive debate on the reform of student organisation, which has not yet experienced its true epilogue. Interpretations, why this is so, are different. In the Modern Centre Party, we have always stressed that a sufficient degree of autonomy in the representation of student interests is essential, but not at the expense of undemocratic and non-transparent practices, which form a grey cloud over student organisations and their representatives. Therefore, a step forward is urgently needed at this time. The proposal could raise wider questions and also raise more appropriate arrangements for electoral campaigns in student representative bodies. If there had been a little more political will just before the end of the previous term, when the SMC Group, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, had included the amendment to the Law on the Community of Students drawn up by Levi, which dealt with identical issues as regulated by the current SDS proposal, today's debate would not even be necessary. Nevertheless, the proposed solutions are a step forward in ensuring greater democratic legitimacy of student organisation, and they are not at the moment to be challenged. With regard to the change in the legal personality of student organisations and their organisational forms, we add that the legal consequences of such a solution should be foreseen and, in particular, the organisational form, of course, of public law, of course, of the student organisation will work in the future. Only a definition that it is a legal person of public law will it not suffice. The proposer must decide whether to refer to the SOS as a public institution, a fund or an agency or a sui generis legal person of public law. This depends on a number of legal consequences of its continued operation. Our proposal goes in the direction of clearly defining that the student organisation is subject to reasonable application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the Public Information Access Act and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. With regard to the supervision of the Court of Auditors, it is more appropriate to provide for this to take account of the provisions of the law governing its functioning and its powers. The Court is independent in its operation and merely determines the continuity and time dynamics of the exercise of controls. In any event, the applicant must not forget that there is also a need to regulate the transitional provisions and the period during which the student organisation will be able to adapt its internal acts to the new regime. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal of the law in the first reading, but in the further stages of the legislative process it is necessary to think more carefully and to prepare amendments that will solve, to the greatest extent possible, the specific legal consequences of changing the legal personality of student organisations. Here we are counting on the constructive cooperation of the proposer and taking into account our suggestions today to reach the final version of the proposal, which will actually drink water, in the interests of students and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! Mr Primož Siter, on behalf of the Group of the Left, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In Levica we support amendments to the Student Community Act, which would ensure greater control and transparency over the use of funds, limit corrupt practices and allow more democracy in the student organisation. Although the proposal that we are considering today does not adequately address these problems, we will still support it in this stage in Levica. In the next step, we will propose more clearly written solutions that will actually subject the student organisation to supervision and legislation in the field of anti-corruption and public procurement. The law we are discussing today has been adopted in the legislative euphoria of the new country since 1994 and has not been amended or supplemented since then. In only 14 articles, it defines the way in which the SOS is established, its purpose and activities, and its sources of funding. The definition of the organisational structure, the manner in which the activities are carried out, in particular the availability of financial and other resources and the supervision of operations, are fully left to the basic and other internal acts of the SOS and its organisational forms. Thus, from the very beginning, the provision of legality, democracy and transparency is more or less left to the autonomous functioning and decentralisation of the responsibilities of SOS officials and professional managers of its business entities. The SOS, as each interested association, needs a significant degree of autonomy in order to carry out its tasks successfully. Therefore, it is understandable that the State has undertaken a minimum of legal regulation. In the context of the free market and the predominance of partisan interests over common interests, a number of problematic practices of a politically undemocratic, commercially non-transparent organisation have developed over two and a half decades, in some cases also in the illegal functioning of the student organisation. This has led, or today, to the least inefficient and unintended use of public funds or to the exploitation of individuals at the expense of the entire student community. As a result, an organisation that is supposed to represent the interests of all students and students has lost democratic legitimacy. This is most clearly expressed in unheard-of electoral practices that reveal the undemocratic, violent nature of student political democracy, as well as the election participation in student elections, which is now an average of 6%. Political culture is even worse. Students can choose their representatives only in one college, in the remaining colleges or, in the notes, in electoral units, they can always run for only as many candidates as the cities awarded, so the political choice in student democracy is virtually null and void. All of this is a reason to intervene in existing legislation. We have already proposed two amendments to the previous mandate in Levica. For the first time on the initiative of the student public and for the second time on the basis of the results of the working group at the Ministry, where other stakeholders participated in addition to the SOS. The result was a coordinated proposal for a novel that envisaged all the key solutions to the original proposal. Only the issue of legal personality remained open. Nevertheless, we have tabled and proposed the following proposals in Levica. First, ensure transparent and economic operations, comply with the Public Procurement Act and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We have proposed the organisation of an election campaign for the student representative bodies. We have proposed the establishment of supervision of the Court of Auditors over business, we have proposed a system-wide regime of relations between student organisations and legal persons set up or co-established by student organisations, and we have proposed an exceptional definition of the SOS and its organisational forms as persons of public law. The story ended by the fact that the committee responsible for the proposal did not decide at all, since the SD and Desus Members of the time decided to obstruct the entire meeting and the members of the SDS and NSI only decided to obstruct the whole meeting. Despite the fact that a decision on the law could be taken at a correspondence meeting, the former SMC Member, not by chance and a very conveniently former student official, voted against it. The SDS proposal that we are considering today is largely flawed. It was written quickly, as the proponent himself said, in response to media reports and public harassment of corrupt practices in the student organisation. In his haste, the SDS quickly copied the proposal of the Left from the previous term. As a result, the proposal does not eliminate any of the current legal voids that would normalise the functioning of student organisations in the medium or long term. The SOS is not subject to the Public Procurement Act, the Public Finance Act or the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. The proposal also does not address disputed democratic procedures within the SOS. The problem that the SDS is trying to solve with this proposal would already be resolved if the political parties sitting today, including the candidate, did not sabotage the well-formed proposal of the Left from the previous mandate. We'll do something different in Levica. As we continue to strive for the transparent and democratic functioning of the student organisation of Slovenia, the enhanced control of corrupt and non-democratic practices and the continued autonomy of the student organisation in the interest of all students and students, we will support the proposal today. Furthermore, we will propose amendments that, in addition to the supervision of the Court of Auditors and the exceptional definition of the SOS and its organisational forms as persons of public law, will also make it clear to which law a student organisation is subject, including a clear commitment to respect the provisions of the law governing access to information of a public nature. We can only hope that the other parties will act in the interest of all students and students this time, not as in the past in the interest of a few clicks of former student officials of their own kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Jožef Horvat, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague! The operation of the Student Organisation of Slovenia over the past 25 years, with the exception of rare exceptions, can by no means be proud. It cannot be proud of politics, not of students, not of citizens, but even less of the people who led this organisation. In the media, we have been able to monitor many suspicions of serious irregularities and corruption in the functioning of the organization. Suspicious real estate and construction transactions, overpaid orders and supplies, suspected corrupt transactions with connected persons, purchases of yachts and restaurants, and the shamelessly high earnings of student officials who are already in their early years, are rounded up at 40s, and still students. Before commenting on the content of the legislative proposal, allow for a rhetorical question. Have any judicial proceedings been initiated in connection with these excesses? Do we have any legal judgments? Is this the rule of law? Is that a signal to young people, students, how much is it worth doing? Let's just imagine. New Slovenia has always advocated that the SOS must act ethically, transparently and that it must be bound by legislation that governs the functioning of indirect budgetary users by analogy. The SOS adopts more than €10 million per year under student service concession fee. It is the money of students who are in themselves a vulnerable social group, and it is the money that should be allocated to students – for new student homes, for subsidies to their diet, to enable students who cannot afford it. From this title, Nova Slovenija advocates the full transparency of the activities of the Student Organisation of Slovenia: commitment to public procurement, the provision of business audits by the Court of Auditors and the possibility of public access to documentation in accordance with the Act on Access to Public Information. It is also necessary to ensure that SOS officials are committed to the provisions of the Anti-Corruption, Property Reporting and Business Ban Act. It is probably not necessary to stress in particular that student officials cannot have salaries higher than that of the Prime Minister and Ministers. The Student Organisation of Slovenia also agrees with these amendments, and in this regard proposes the adoption of an amendment to the proposal for a law on the student community. In New Slovenia, we do not want to discuss more transparency in the functioning of the SOS today, but we also want to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate for the SOS budget to be more than €10 million. We want part of the concession fee money to be allocated directly to the construction of student homes and to the grant fund for talented and socially disadvantaged students. New Slovenia supports the bill, but we also support the proposed amendment, which is presented in writing in the opinion of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. We want a serious parliamentary debate to begin and the situation concerning the SOS will finally be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marko Bandelli on behalf of the Allenka Bratušek Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u18	Dear Members and Members, honourable President, Secretary of State! The current law on the student community governs the position, functioning and activities of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Since its adoption in 1994, this law has not yet experienced the necessary and radical overhaul, in line with the social changes of the last twenty years. In the past, there have been several failed attempts to supplement the law. However, the biggest debate on the amendment dates back to 2011, when the public legal personality of the Student Organisation of Slovenia was discussed. At that time, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia attached the information officer and decided that the SOS was a legal person of public law. The decisive criteria for such a definition are: the method of setting up, the purpose of the operation, the method of financing, the exercise of public powers and the way in which the status of a member is acquired. This is the case with the SOS and its organisational forms for an organisation acting in the public interest. However, funding from the state budget and budgets of local self-government communities is also an important element in defining the legal person of public law. The Constitutional Court’s arguments were followed in full afterwards by the Supreme Court. Since 2011, we have received at least once from Members in each mandate to address this issue either at a meeting of the working body or at the hearing of the Student Community Act. Even in the current government, there is no difference. With the amendment of the Act, the SDS Group clearly defines the Student Organisation as a person of public law who will be subject to external supervision by the Court of Auditors. Let me say that in the SAB Group, we agree with the proposed objectives and believe that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. We support each step in a more transparent and transparent use of public funds. It is clear that the current control mechanisms within student organisations are not working. Consumption is poorly controlled and documented. Nobody knows how student organisations spend public money. The corrupt practices of spending public money in the functioning of student organisations are also constantly highlighted by the media. In order for some funds to be spent better and better, there is a multi-annual analysis of the social situation of the student population EUROSTUDENT VI, which shows that 38% of our students are facing major financial problems. In particular, the study emphasises that we have an overly high proportion of students who survive the scholarship but face financial problems at the same time. The funds received by the ŠOS are sufficient for the immediate increase in scholarships of 13,000 socially disadvantaged students and students from 190 to 250 euros, as far as the monthly cost of scholarships in the EUROSTUDENT VI study. Therefore, once again, in the SAB Group we support transparent spending of public money and we will support the proposal that student organisations are legal entities of public law. However, control over the legality and usefulness of spending should be carried out by the Court of Auditors. We believe that it would be good if student organisations were committed to public procurement, it would also make sense to limit student officials' salaries by a pay scale. In order to achieve this, we must proceed together and take into account some of the important comments of the Government and students. It is not enough to simply add the word “public” to the law, as the proposalr did. Since the student organisation is the so-called so-called soi generis legal person, it is necessary to determine at the same time which laws will apply to it, such as legislation relating to public procurement and the prevention of corruption. In particular, it is necessary to determine whether the SOS will be part of the salary system of public servants. The very determination that the SOS is a legal person of public law does not yet constitute the direct application of the legislation mentioned by both the proposer and the Government. However, we agree that this is a good enough foundation to begin with, so in the SAB Group we will support the amendment of the Law on the Community of Students at first reading, of course, provided that we further agree on all the key points that I have mentioned earlier with the proposaler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jurij Lep, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We will definitely support the proposal to supplement the Student Community Act in the Desus Group in the first reading. In the mandate of the National Assembly 2014-2018, MEPs and Members have already addressed the issue of the legal entity of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. There was a fundamental agreement on the status of this community. Finally, it is a question of whether private or public law is the subject of judicial practice. The expert opinions of the Court of Auditors, the Information Officer, the Legal and Legal Service, the National Assembly and so on are all well known. Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners are convinced that the community, which includes and represents almost 100,000 students, must be subject to such a rule by means of funds obtained among others from the State budget, the budget of local communities, from concession activities, so that the objective of transparency and legal and purposeful use of funds can also be realized. In the media, we can read a number of reverberating headlines about the fact that roof or other non-subordinate student organisations are shaking up various scandals, primarily related to the unintended use of funds. There were also electoral frauds, briberys and fictitious advisory contracts, and, last but not least, the money from the Shkiss market went missing. In our opinion, the public image of the student organisation is also poor because the legislation is inconsistent and overly loose. That is why, among other things, this is the reason for us to finally lay down clear and appropriate rules of the game. We agree that the law, which has not been updated since its adoption in 1994, needs to be fully updated and upgraded, so that the functioning of the umbrella student organisation and of all those under its auspices will in all respects be more effective, supervised, transparent and, crucially, for the benefit of the entire student population. In view of all the history surrounding a similar bill, which has been tabled twice in last term, we would like to conclude this time in our parliamentary group. Notwithstanding all activities carried out by representatives of student associations who are not united or who do not speak the same language, the law should be corrected. The activities of the Government or the competent ministry, both previous and current, have been carried out in dialogue with students. Nor do they deny the need for clear, written and law on the supervision of the Court of Auditors, public access to information of a public nature, anti-corruption legislation and public procurement. Now we have a chance to finally finish this story. In further consideration, it is likely that the law will have to be supplemented by some additional paragraph in order to reach a comprehensive legal regime that ensures the transparent and purposeful use of public funds belonging to and intended for students. This has provided a stable and conducive environment for quality education. In the Desus Group, we will support the draft law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As last of all, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Dušan Šiško, Group of the Slovenian National Party. At the same time, I inform you, honourable Members, that the list of debates between Members and Members has changed significantly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u22	Dear President, all present! It is right to congratulate all elected MEPs first. I would also like to thank the SDS party in particular for making it possible for the European Member of Parliament to return to Krk, although they were aware that they would not have come to the EU if they had gone to the list. I'm moving to position now. Look, it's embarrassing that in student organisations they don't feel responsible for spending tens of thousands of euros on all kinds of pointless research, counselling, unusual trafficking, yachts, other parties where alcohol flows. Expenditure is even for massages, waxing and tanning. And in all this they hope to say they are good masters. I don't think that's normal, but it's just a waste of money. Some of them even have a salary comparable to our Member State or the President of the State, while poor people express concern for socially disadvantaged students and stress how they work for their benefit. You know, it's just about making fun of students, their employers and taxpayers, which is not right. Student officials are for me people who know a sophisticated way to spend public money in private pockets — of course without control and without responsibility. We can't control them because they're free and it would be pressure on their autonomy. We are talking about a school of corruption and money laundering, which we are also witnessing in health care, state-owned banks and state-owned enterprises, where money is found in the hands of companies, which are known primarily to have seats and bank accounts. The result of all of this is that each one so many without a trace disappear millions, where no one knows where, not where, not who stole them, and what they do with them. It must be said no, and the matter must be settled as soon as possible. As we know, the Student Organisation of Slovenia has been organised under the Law on the Community of Students since 1994, where it has independently regulated its operation and control over the use of financial resources, which of course is wrong. The law has not yet been amended, and it is high time for it to be completed. The main source of funding for the Slovenian Student Organisation is the work of students and students, where annual revenues amount to around 12 million euros, which is not enough money. It is incomprehensible that the regulation of these funds and the functioning of the Slovenian Student Organisation itself is legally poorly regulated, where we clearly see that this is an unintended and non-transparent use of public funds, since the SOS and its organisational forms are not obliged to respect the Public Procurement Act. The rules on control over the purposeful use of funds are weak and not implemented, rare external audits are adapted, internal controls are carried out by students without adequate competences and no one is sanctioned here. We need to know that the SOS is undoubtedly a person of public law. Thus, the Public Procurement Act should apply to the procurement of cash services, and the obligations of student officials should be followed by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We should respect the Law on Access to Public Information, regulate the field of student organisation in higher education institutions and regulate election procedures in representative bodies and limit the financing of electoral campaigns. In this area, consideration should also be given to other exposed areas, as it is merely a definition of the legal person of public law, i.e. it is not sufficient, since the SOS will be highly likely to be included in the State sector under the proposed law, which means that it will have to calculate surpluses in accordance with Article 9 of the Public Finance Act. In addition to the latter, employees' payments should be limited to a public sector payment scale for comparable works. Regular external control over the use of public funds should be carried out by the Court of Auditors every two years, which currently cannot. This would increase the transparency of business and help to eliminate any further corruption practices. Let me mention that a similar solution in the Student Community Act has already been addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth in 2016, but unfortunately there has not been a realisation by the end of the previous term. They probably forgot the papers and placed them under the table. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on the Community of Students, because we believe that it is good and we propose that it be complemented appropriately by provisions that will fully regulate the organisation form of the SOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded the debate and presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you, President. Well, if I stop at the last time when Mr Šisko thanked us for putting on the list of Mr Franz Bogovic and allowing them to be elected, I thank you, Mr Šiško, that, despite being a member of the Slovenian National Party, you have elected our list and also probably Mr Bogovic, who is from your parts. As far as this is concerned, Mr President, I agree with you, the list has probably shrunk, which is probably the reason why we agree that changes are necessary and I am really pleased that there is consensus that we are going to another reading. As far as the position of the List of Marjan Šarc is concerned, I can say that I agree practically with everything, even with the fact that, above all, the Student Organisation of Slovenia is also a policy area, but we cannot prevent it in any way. No one can prevent either SDS, or SD, or LMŠ, or any other party, that students who are either their customer’s sympathizers or their party’s members do not install into the leadership of these organisations, not tell anyone that they should be active in these organisations and eventually reach the summit itself. We can't stop this from happening, not legally, not in any other way. And that's right. Because we know how things work. But to restrict someone just because he is a member of a political party, I think he is contrary to democratic standards. Monitoring the use of public finances is exactly what we are trying to do, but of course it is necessary to maintain and guarantee autonomy. And autonomy is maintained by controlling the use of public funds or by controlling the use of financial resources, as consumption is monitored in accordance with whether consumption is as prescribed by law, whether consumption is what it must be according to the provisions that will be heard and said in this article, then in the second reading. That the Student Organisation of Slovenia must be removed from the hands of harmful individuals, as Jerca said, I agree with this, not only the Student Organisation of Slovenia, but another legal person. But today we are talking about a student organisation, which is, I believe that we all agree here, even though we can speak differently, we will never be able to pull out of the politics. In the previous mandate, when we proposed a change to Zujf in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the direction that that part of the concessions received by the Student Organisation of Slovenia would somehow be redistributed so that not all of those about 10, 11 million would receive the Student Organisation of Slovenia, but that part of the student homes, part of the scholarships, would still go to the Student Organisation of Slovenia, then part would go directly to the ŠCIS, which is an identity within the ŠOS, is said to be student clubs, and part would be retained to go primarily to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, where different calls can be made for youth organisations to report that the use of that money is then transparent. A call is made and you can sign up. If you get the project, then the project is even. If you didn't do what you said, and the spending wasn't transparent, you have to pay that money back. At the time, it was principled support, but then the adoption of this law was prevented by exactly student officials from the party of Social Democrats and the parties of the modern centre. So the impact of policy both in the Student Organisation of Slovenia and vice versa, the impact of the Student Organisation of Slovenia on Members and Members of the National Assembly. We know that some of the Slovenian Students' Organization, who were formerly officials, are also in the National Assembly today, but I am pleased that this law will be supported. As we go in support of this law, we are essentially moving forward to make student organisation more transparent. To begin with, as far as the use of public funds is concerned. We follow the example of the Supreme Court. What Mr Rajič from the SMC said was that we could make the law wider. Of course you could, but I am sure that in such a case in the first reading it would not be accepted at all. We have proposed that the minimum change that we believed could be achieved. I think we can reach consensus on control over the use of public funds. As far as this is concerned, I'm glad we've united. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already spoken with some coalition parties and also with the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Thus, today or tomorrow, after this matter has been adopted, we will send you some draft work to upgrade the matter through the amendment. I think we can meet with representatives of the parliamentary groups next week and go to coordination. The Court of Auditors would record exactly what Dr. Stromajer mentioned earlier as a representative of the Government that it would be good, as you have left out, that it continues to go on to the additional paragraphs, where we write that the term “legal person of public law” referred to in paragraphs 2, 6 and 7 of this Article refers exclusively to the operation and control of student organisations, as set out in the following paragraphs, to add a paragraph relating to financial and material transactions and to the availability of the funds obtained under the Public Procurement Act, to add a paragraph relating to the Court of Auditors, saying that control over the regularity, legality and prudence of the use of public funds by the student organisation of Slovenia and its organisational forms is exercised by the Court of Auditors. Surely we can also discuss this word “legislability” because the Court of Auditors does not see the legality as such. The Court of Auditors shall adopt a report, a decision, and if the infringements are detected there in accordance with the law, it shall be the court which shall determine the legality. If we put only “righteousness” and “sensitivity” of spending public funds in here, I think that would be enough. It is certainly necessary to add a paragraph which speaks of the commitment to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The student organisation of Slovenia has itself proposed to add a paragraph to it which prevents members of the governing and supervisory bodies of the SOS from being persons who have been legally sentenced to imprisonment for more than six months, which I think is prudent, and of course the Act on Access to Public Information. Also, after we have spoken, it would make sense to limit ourselves to pay. The main problem is two paychecks. This is Mr. Classic's salary and he pays Mr. Jury. The other salaries are somehow in line with what the Student Organisation of Slovenia expects to be worth thousands, thousands of euros for some higher positions. But I'm sure there's a limit to the matter, and then we'll do it. Then we also consult the Legislative and Legal Service, if this person is public law as such, if we add it in, it makes sense. I should certainly also consider what my colleague from the Left has said, partly agree. This law is old, 14 articles. At the time, everything else was going to happen, except how the use of public funds would be monitored. This has also led to such and different stories that some of you have listed here, and stories that always open up when either in this house or elsewhere, talk about how the Student Organization of Slovenia, the Union of ŠCIS or anyone else in this family works. That's when we supported the law of the Left. I think it was filed in 2016 or 2015. That's when we supported him. It is true, however, that we did not support it because we did not even have it because we obstructed the meeting of the last month or the last two months before the parliamentary elections, when individual Members have even tabled a bunch of laws and we have also obstructed both the opposition parties and the coalition Desus and the SD meeting because we did not want to go there. When it comes to some reckless hand-to-hand measures, in fact, there were some hand-to-hand measures that certainly followed only to somehow make a show before the early parliamentary elections, but not to actually do something about it and to do something about it. This law must certainly continue to be discussed. One of these financial controls, which I hope will be completed within two months then, is to open up issues which are not part of one political party itself, but part of a broader consensus, in which direction the student organisation should go in the future in Slovenia. There will certainly have to be a debate on this issue. What the Student Organisation of Slovenia serves, what only student organisation serves, when we see that young people participate most in some foreign projects, on some of the foreign topics of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which are more casual activities than where the Student Organisation of Slovenia should actually play an important role. The student organisation of Slovenia will have to make a difference if it wants to raise this participation, as colleagues Siter pointed out. That 6% of students go to elections just says that students of the Student Organisation of Slovenia or this student policy do not see them as policies acting in their interest or as politicians representing them. As far as electoral participation is concerned, students can also follow national, local and any other elections, unfortunately also European, where electoral participation is very low, but only 6% of students decide who will represent them, who will be in leading positions, is concerned and should be discussed not only within the Student Organisation of Slovenia, but also within Parliament, what can be done to ensure that the student organisation will be guided by the work of the electoral team, but in particular by some way of student organisation in terms of the protection of student rights, taking up a student position both within the learning process and outside. Not in terms of entertainment, but in terms of social status of students and students. This is called student homes, scholarships, counselling in employment, in short, projects that pay students and students to advance. Of course, some leisure activities are also needed, but not in a way that we can hear when the Target reveals what is being done, what is being paid for. In this way, the lion's share of the student function is certainly contributed by the students themselves and those working in these organisations, that electoral participation is low and that only the public opinion on the Student Organisation of Slovenia is worse than the opinion on Parliament. I am pleased that you will support this law and then in the second reading with the amendment we will make a final version that will be acceptable to receive the majority support in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If I understand correctly, I'd like to speak with a representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you. Nice greetings, President, nice greetings to you all! In fact, I am pleased that, after presentations, we can find that we all welcome, in one way or another, the intention and proposal of the law prepared by the SDS Group of Members, but I would like to remind you that this government has also written in a coalition agreement that we will transform the public legal status of the Student Organisation of Slovenia from private to public or that this will clearly be written in the Law on the Community of Students. I am also pleased to note that all of us will need to see that the dictions of articles currently on the table in the first reading are still to be drunk or supplemented, in general, on whether it will be such a classic legal person of public law as a public institution, whether it will be directed towards the sui generis of a legal person of public law, which we have also prepared at the Ministry in the direction of a self-government and autonomous person of a student organization, in order to determine in fact what rules are applicable to student organisations, the Law on Public Servants, the Regulation on Restrictions and Duties of Public Servants on the Admission of Gifts, the Law on the Public Sector System of Salaries, the Law on Public Finance, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Law on Real Property of the State and Local Self-Governmental Communities, and would probably also be included in all our acts. In any event, however, these matters will have to be reconciled with students, who are also an important participant in the adoption of higher education legislation and other matters concerning young people in this country. However, we all agree that the tighter supervision of the Court of Auditors and other bodies in this country is necessary, because, as we have all seen together, it is the funds received by the student organisations on the basis of the concession, which is determined, as already Mr Mahnic rightly warned, by another law, which is currently the Law on the Balance of Public Finance. This will probably open later when you have a change in student work arrangements, but this is already another topic. The Government therefore welcomes the proposed regulation of the public legal entity of the SOS and the appropriate supervision of the Court of Auditors, in particular it should be added that the organisational forms of the SOS as well. We will also try to help in the course of the legislative process to find solutions for these issues that have arisen and for the confusion that could lead to the adoption of the law by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic, you are the first, and Mr Jožef Horvat is behind you, and Mr Jožef Horvat is behind you, and Mr Vojko Starović is behind you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's proposal for a law on the Student Organisation of Slovenia seems to me to be a normal conclusion to some event in recent years. First of all, let me tell you how I met the Student Organisation of Slovenia alone during my term of office. Of course, they were coming and we always accepted them in the New Slovenia Group. We want to have a good relationship with them, an open dialogue, because in fact students come from all our families, including mine, and you want students to be able, however, to have a particularly accessible study, quality education and, finally, the same opportunities as for this. That is why in New Slovenia we have also always viewed student organisations as those who are watching over how and how studies in Slovenia will be regulated. From this point of view, our expectations, or my expectations, were extremely high. If I come back in 2012, 2011 when the law on the right from public funds was enforced, which took scholarships under the age of 18 and child allowances under the age of 18, I must say that I missed the response of the Student Organisation of Slovenia at the time. I can say that at the time, some representations of students who were deprived were simply not available, even later all the time, when I had already called on myself several times when Nova Slovenija was investing matters in order to return state scholarships and to remove the child allowance from the recalculation of scholarships to students. At that time, a clearer call was made by the Student Organisation of Slovenia that this was the right thing to do and that this should be regulated in order for the Government to abolish this article was simply not the case. At least it's not so clear that students would notice it, especially their parents. Here the student organization was a little quiet, I can tell you that it went hand in hand with the former governments and simply kept things under cover somewhere. As I recall, this has been extremely active in the last seven years. What was done by the student organisation was in 2012 in the budget the living circle of students around the National Assembly, when our government was in 2012 and more actively in raising the general ease of student work two years ago, from 3 000 to 3 000 300 euros. Here I have detected some greater activity of the student organization or representatives of the students. I can say that on the news, how they share student money, which is the money of all students in Slovenia, each individual to buy some real estate, to afford such a shamelessly rich trip, and students to see whether they will go on a hot meal or not. Warm meals are raised from month to month or for two months. With €2 30, as we started 5 years ago, it is now necessary to pay practically for 4 euros and a half for a hot meal. And I think there's a complete inactivity of the student organization. For 10 million, as far as their budget is concerned, the student organisation could further subsidise one part, but that was not the case. The student organisation has practically such a budget to help all students in Slovenia with a warm meal that belongs to them on the day. But I do have a few questions myself. Which dormitory was last built in Ljubljana and what year? Problem is, college homes are old. The problem is that student homes don't actually fit the standards, their kitchens don't fit. I have one more question. Since the student organisation is a roof organization, we also have local student organisations in Slovenia, some student clubs, we have inland, coastal, mountainous and so on throughout Slovenia. I was wondering if you had a separate lead. How much do these student organisations get from local budgets? In addition to the 10 million that they receive from the state budget, there are also funds allocated to them by the local community. How much money is that? Because if we put it all together, it's strong over 10 million of that money. I know that certain congregations very strongly support student organisations, local organisations, which, of course, is right, as things are also going on. But on a national level there's one such big thing about Shkis's market, it was 14 days ago, which actually showed how untransparent it is to work with money so that money can just be taken away from Shkis's market. The worst part is that in this country I keep reminding you that those responsible do not know how to assume subjective and objective responsibilities. The representative proposed a solution to this error and was not accepted. With such negligence, we can say that it is an act of negligence, one must withdraw. You want to, you don't want to get out. Students also warn, as well as themselves, that it is extremely inappropriate for students to operate in student organisations who are 40 years of age or less and then say "young people". I have a 22-year-old student at home, and now one who finishes high school and will become, I hope, a student in the next school year. I think they can say "we young". That we have here one generation leap, which is still considered to be young at age 40?Oh, my God! He's young to me, to my colleague Horvath, of course they're young. But I think it's right that student organisations run students who are most involved in student life who know all the problems that they know, how difficult it is to get to a student's home, to a dorm room that knows what a student's job means if you want to pay or pay for a warm meal that knows what it all means to pay. Therefore, it seems to me that we should also consider being officials in student organisations, as the law says, by the time you can be a student, by the age of 26. I think it would actually encourage young people to be more active. Maybe we'd be more active in the election. But that's how these old bumps come in, these young people and the inexperienced lose their way, because they don't know how to act against them, and I'm going to say, for a few years, for decades, for older people who think they're student officials, and they just don't fit in. Thus, student organisations remain in the hands of certain individuals, not to say perhaps even a certain political party. I wish we could work with transparency. I very much want the Commission to have a greater impact and a greater review of their salaries to prevent corruption. However, I would also like to see some proceedings taken against certain persons who have abused all students in Slovenia in order to afford luxury. I'm counting on the possibility that maybe not the last time these things were really found and made available to all the students. If this is possible when changing from private to legal persons, all holiday facilities will also be available to students. But above all, you know what to be available to college families. We have quite a few student families, young people, where actually student organisations don't do what is necessary. When two students get married, they lose all the student rights. All of a sudden, they become adults. This is also under the Family Code Act. I don't think the student organization supported them at this stage. They lose all rights, they don't even get cash social assistance. It seems to me that there should also be a step forward in this area in order for student organisations to support student families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion. It is Mr Vojko Starović's turn to follow Mr Joseph Horvato, and then Mrs Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I regret that quite a few coalition members have opted out of the debate. I believe my colleague Ivo and I will be joined. It's a very long list. Some of them must have been fascinated by the European elections. Now, let's leave these circumstances alone. As we said, we will support this marriage. I can say that, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I am pleased that practically the Government does not oppose, although I expected it to say more clearly that it supports this bill and that virtually all parliamentary groups support this amendment of the student community law. I only hope that there will not be any experience that we already have in the previous term, when the coalition parliamentary groups in the first reading supported our proposal for a law, and then the chief of the coalition said, "No, this is not supported." And the Members withdrew, and in the second reading, the law fell from us to this day for unknown reasons. I would expect more critical thoughts from students, by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. I'm sorry, but somehow I don't feel this potential that normally students have in them, it's too little and too little of a loud articulate. I think that there is almost no law that we are adopting here, I would expect some opinion, what additions, not least some future Slovenian intellectuals, it is people who will lead this society in the future, and practical legislation here is adopted for them, for their generations. I miss this a little bit, but I'm sorry, maybe I'm wrong. I'm just wondering how you other colleagues and colleagues feel about this. I do not call for student protests, I want the dialogue, as we know it in democratic societies, and I would certainly take into account the opinion of the Student Organisation of Slovenia in many laws here. The student organisation wrote in its opinion, in its comment on the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Community of Students, among other things, quote: “At the SOS we can only repeat our views that we want a clear legal record, control over the functioning of student organisations, although we are already following these principles of transparency politically motivated, rounding up, and media attacks are always causing damage and violating reputation.” Of course, everyone can comment on this statement in their own way. I believe they're trying to want a transparent business, but what we've seen in Tarcha on national television has certainly aroused some negative feelings in all of us, in politics, in taxpayers, a negative attitude towards the student organisation. Was that necessary? If the competent authorities could find those responsible, for example, who stole it, because if 70,000 euros went missing, that means someone stole it, someone stole 70,000 euros from all the Slovenian students. As far as I know, he's not responsible today, I don't know if there's an investigation or he's not running, and so on. But Target, now I don't praise, says politicians shouldn't praise the media, Target in this case, colleagues and colleagues, wasn't a political attack, it wasn't a media attack. It is only, so now I understand, that today we have a debate on the amendment of the Law on the Student Community. However, we all agree that there is actually a need to legalise proper supervision here. It's public money, it's the money of all taxpayers. And it's not that low, it's about 10 million euros. Let us compare this with the budgets of rural municipalities. And what we hear is that the talk about caviar parties, that the talk about yachts and so on, about astronomical wages, this policy must simply stop. I hope that in the second reading there will really be enough true will, enough political will to actually stop it. True, for 25 years virtually nothing has happened in this area. I can only think out loud, but what if the policy is with the money she put into the student organisation, in a way, every time, she bought some kind of peace, student peace. I only hope that no political party has been financed through the SOS. I just hope so. Because there, on this Target, which we are likely to talk about today, unfortunately, we have somehow experienced very arrogant answers by the representative of the SOS. I hope that you, at least some, have at least thought of the matter that way. And yes, the student organisation must make a key effort to ensure that students have the conditions to be able to study. I'm heartbroken when my parents write to me I don't know how many times from Prekmur that their son is in a place for a student room. And we would like to develop the countryside, the periphery, just like the Central Slovenian region?Oh, my God! Don't joke! Who are we going to develop with? Who? Only with knowledge, only with the knowledge of ladies and gentlemen! To stay where they were born — yes, even on the periphery. That they'd study and go back home. Only then is at least one possibility that they will also develop the Robbery of the Slovenian State. But if he has to wait, he is in 375th place for a dormitory, 200 kilometers away from home — see, this is not easy! It's got to be the rich parents, otherwise it's not going to work. No, they can't, or their kid can't study. The second is for the Ljubljanaers, but I envy them nothing, I am not disdainful that we understand each other. But the periphery is simply cut off from knowledge, cut off from development, and here is the problem. Here I expect that the student organisation would be stronger to actually demand from politics – yes, colleague Iva asked rhetorically all of us when the last student home was built. I'm asking you next. How many more are there, Mr. Secretary of State, students waiting somewhere in line? But we have so much money now that the economy is booming that we will still build these capacities – if we need them. I don't know, but the ministry has to have questions about these answers in a little finger, as they say, at midnight. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. In particular, I would like to expose the student families who are so left to themselves. Here are then opening other questions, not so much about the business of the ŠOS itself, but the issue of the status of conditions at all, simply put, the conditions for studying all Slovenes and Slovenes, all citizens and citizens of this country who want to receive knowledge, so that they can serve themselves and, of course, a wider society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you. I owe the gentlemen of New Slovenia an answer. Further renovations and construction of student homes. The last dormitory restored in Ljubljana in 2014 was still under the leadership of Minister Pikal, who was the first minister to be restored on the Poljanska road in Ljubljana. The new building and purchase was 2017 in Koper, 166 new beds and last year the renovation of the dormitory no. 7 in Maribor. And yes, I agree, student beds in student homes are not enough. Mr Horvat, when you asked; according to the latest information 71 eligible students are still waiting for a student bed in Ljubljana. Two, three years ago, this waiting line was filled much faster or emptied so that the students could move in. What is the situation in the real estate market, but you are well known. In Ljubljana there is currently, unfortunately, much more construction of superstandard apartments for because we know what prices per square meter – something that you Members can hardly afford with your salary. And this is also the situation in the real estate market, for example, because of Airbnb and other forms of intermediation of student homes or apartments or beds available, is a ruin. Here we know the problem, and I very much agree that in the future more resources should all be devoted together to investing in social infrastructure, in student beds, in order for students from Prekmur to come first. Otherwise, scoring is such that the one who is more distant comes in first, but is still a waiting line that is problematic. But it is true, and it is no secret that in recent years all of us have been finely cut in investment budgets. Well, our ministry, of course, places all the funds it has at its disposal for investment and maintenance in these capacities. However, there is probably no ministry that should only find that we would definitely need more money for these needs. We are well aware of that. But we regret that — or, today, this is not an object — we cannot solve this by means of this law. [[Incomprehensible]] But this is a question, say, in concessions from student work, I know that it is also something that opens up to be on the agenda. However, the ministry would in any event, of course, if it were able to provide additional funds to invest in student homes, this is one of the things we will do. Well, if I'm not mistaken, we also want to do this in a coalition agreement. We are already preparing certain investments for this purpose at the Ministry, including for the following budgets. I hope we're successful. But this is one of the challenges ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Now, you have the word, Mr Vojko Starović, and Mrs Mateja Udowicz will be prepared and then Mr Nick Prebil will be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everyone! Let us not forget something, about some thought that has become very anchored in our souls and behavior: find yourself, be taken, turn up, appear to us at the expense of another – we also appear elsewhere, not only in the student organizations. The fact of the matter is that this has occurred in student organisations, but individually in excesses. It is right that we do this, and that is why we support this in the SAB party as well. However, I would like to stress that we are careful with standardisation, not going too far, because this can create a lot of procedural, very bureaucratic problems. I think that we should not, today I feel this in the air, we should not give in to all the excessive presence of desire in our country and politicians and bureaucrats in order to regulate legally everything that falls into our minds. It just doesn't work. The result is a hypertrophy of regulations with all the known consequences; therefore, that we have a lack of orderliness, we do not reach a level playing field with this. We have to be careful of that. Too much standardization, I'm also talking about student organisations now, killing autonomy and creativity. By killing autonomy and creativity, he also kills responsibility. But we must not forget what responsibility really means. It doesn't mean that you're criminally, civilly responsible, responsibility in the first place means that you can find the right answers to the problems you face. That is why we must leave autonomy and autonomy to organisations. If we overstep some area, then we're just saving a bureaucratic rebub, not a real life. Let's trust people, let's not stick to Stalin's syntagma – Comrade Stalin, stress: Trust is good, control is better. Let's be afraid of this! The hall is beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u35	Isn't that a German proverb? [[background advertising]] Okay. I hope you will not cause any dispute between the Germans, but between the Russians. You have the floor, Mrs Mateja Udovč, to prepare Mr Nick Prebil and Mr Marko Bandelli is behind you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As a citizen and as a member of the Committee on Education in the National Assembly, I have been following in more detail the issue of primary school, secondary school, students for some time. I note that in the first two categories in the public and in the professional circles we are primarily discussing the improvement of the school system, the quality of teaching, the curriculum, the protection of personal data, heavy schools, the overload of both children and teachers, and more. In short, topics that accompany education in primary and secondary schools. One would expect students to be involved in this and similar subjects. But no. Most media and other information is related to a number of affairs that undermine the legitimacy of the autonomous student organisation ŠOS. Almost all information is related to the uncontrolled spending of public money. However, the lowest payout, the ordering of fictitious services, the overpayment of ordered services and goods could also be listed. However, the common denominator for these affairs is a lack of adequate supervision. While the Law on the Community of Students provides in Article 10 that control over the purposeful use of funds shall be managed in accordance with specific rules, those rules shall be insufficient and not implemented. However, in the case of rare external audits, these audits are ordered so that they are limited only to certain financial transactions segments. If regular and effective controls were to be carried out, such regular affairs as could be seen in the public domain would not be subject to or would at least be subject to sanctions. Nor does the internal control of the SOS and its organisational forms work, as it is carried out by committees or commissions whose composition is determined by those who should be supervised. The internal controls are thus carried out by students without adequate competence, who are appointed by different student political groups, whose representatives and officials also decide on the manner and extent of the use of public funds. The student organisation of Slovenia has to work in line with its purpose, which is to care for students and to carry out student processes smoothly, so the SOS should spend most of its resources on improving the social status of students, housing policy for young people, scholarships and the like. The data that only 20% of the funds are allocated and the remaining for salaries, fees and other costs is indeed worrying. Given the nature and purpose of its operation, the SOS is undoubtedly a person of public law and not a legal person of private law as currently defined and functioning. The applicable legislation should also be adapted accordingly, as is the case for direct budgetary users. Therefore, the solutions proposed to determine the status of a person under public law and to determine external control are entirely correct. In doing so, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring external control for the transparent, cost-effective and efficient functioning of the SOS. Effective external control by the Court of Auditors should be ensured in accordance with the Public Information Access Act, in accordance with the rules laid down by the KPC and other competent authorities. Of course, we must first regulate the status of the SOS as a legal person of public law and then the whole legislative process will be easier. However, the operation of the SOS will have to be subject to the sectoral rules governing the public service system, the public sector wage system, public financing, public procurement and the like, and the legal solutions should also take account of the consequences of the status transformation and identify possible exceptions. For young people in Slovenia, and especially for students, our future intellectual elites, we must give a clear message of what values we are defending. We must by no means agree that they lay down their loose rules and standards that they then play. We must be clearly aware of the responsibilities for the management and operation of the SOS and similar organisations and of any consequences that may arise therefrom. Since I don't care what young people and students do in our society, what messages we send them, and because I advocate transparent, purposeful and economic spending of public money, I will support the bill. To conclude, as colleagues have already asked or asked rhetorical questions, I would also ask a rhetorical question: How can these future creators of our society, directors, executives, scientists, doctors and other public servants understand citizens with minimum wages and average incomes if they are already used to talking about the salaries of EUR 3,000 plus, and some should not be satisfied with their work? Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion! You have the floor, Mr Nick Prebil, and behind you, Mr Marko Bandelli and Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President! Dear fellows and fellows, all well hailed! I am pleased that we are dealing with this issue today, as this begins the first step towards proper transformation, which will allow for greater control and more transparent business of student organisations, and is also the first step that allows confidence to be restored among students in an organisation that was primarily created for the independent operation and integration of students into a single community. In fact, not everything is bad and not all individuals who work in these organizations are bad. Many of them point to problems and work for the good of the students, but of course, as everywhere there are exceptions that work only for their own benefit. This law has remained the same since 1994. In total, it consists of fourteen articles and, if there is no need for other amendments, it is at least time that requires changes and changes in society and ultimately in the student population. I still believe that the SOS is still the one who will have to do the most about its reputation, and here I am pleased that the SOS also agrees with the proposed amendments and proposes certain amendments. The courts have also ruled in several judgments that in cases of student organisations for persons governed by public law, and we all agree with this dictatorship that a dictatorship like itself, i.e. a person of public law, will not solve the problem. As my colleague, Mrs Korča, has already said, we will support the issue at this point, but as everyone else would like us to complete the matter in the next stage and clearly determine what everything and what laws student organisations will be subject to in order to establish an appropriate and, in particular, appropriate, transparent business with full access to public information. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr Member, and after Mr Mark Bandelli, you are Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik and as the last on Mr Tomaž Lisec's list. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you, President, for your word! One wonders, organizes an event, and then ends up going to a bar counting money. I mean, from that bar when the money was counted, I'm gonna go to another bar, tell you how much money it was, and from that moment on, there's no money left. I mean, how can they even say something so naive — right? I mean, I'm asking so stupidly here, because it's not just a police matter, you have to lock these people up here; it's those who were involved in this matter here. [[…]] You go to one coffee shop and then you go to another coffee shop to tell me how much money there was and how much money there was — but there is no money left! He's on his way out. Let's keep it quiet! It's been published twice in the media. How, what happened?Oh, my God! There's been a disaster! And 10 million people get money, they get money, they get money, they get money, they get money, they get money, they get money, they get money, they get money, they get money that's different, and it's literally not known because there's no transparency here. You know, when I was mayor, I adopted a rule about funding societies. More and more money was involved in these societies — and then they had to justify the amount at the end of the year. Of course they did! If you gave them a thousand euros or if I gave them five thousand euros, they always justified the amount. But where and in what way was it never transparent: because we had to look at who and so on. That was nothing. I'm the one who requested evidence of money use. How? Then it was different. Then it came to pass that the traceability of these uses brought everything out. Didn't he need five grand then? He only needed two thousand five hundred to do his work. I'd rather spend five grand. No problem. Now I'm talking about a few thousand euros in a small community for societies, what needs to be done, but from this we need to start thinking that something literally doesn't work. I'll also say now it's been said that by default we always reject everything that is. [[…]] That's not true. This case is very well set up. Of course, as everyone says, there's going to be something else to fix, something to add, I don't know exactly who or what, but we're going to see for ourselves, to what it is. But it is mandatory to adopt a law that will control matters as soon as possible. He can't go on like that anymore. And there's a representative's salary, here's an official, higher than our first one or whatever it's called. How can that be? We're not normal!? It can't be like that here. A scale must be drawn up, these matters must be limited. That's the taxpayer's money. What's from market activity, however, must be visible where it is but that what's been going on, I hope we come up clean with this thing because it seems unacceptable to me. [[…]] You're going to the coffee shop to count the money, there's no more coffee shop! My boys, that's not working! They're right for us to be butts! I also personally support this law more than anything else, this law, including the amendments that I hope will support in this respect. Our client has already expressed the point that we will support this. And I hope, indeed, that once this matter is cleared up, because in such a non-transparent way that it is managed with taxpayer money, students – because it is not against students, it is for students. What a lot of students are injured in this account, when some profit from exploiting the system, that there is no traceability and no transparency. That's exactly what I'm talking about. As soon as possible and as soon as possible with this matter! Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Lydia Divac Mernik, follow you, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President for your word. Good-bye! Now I have to say that I didn't want to come by at the beginning, but the debate of certain colleagues has led me to say that there are some things that need to be said. I am pleased that both the opposition and the coalition have united around this law and that this matter will be carried out. However, it seems important to me to stress that not all student officials are weak, that we cannot throw them in the same basket, nor can we talk about them, that they are stealing, that they are exploiting, that they are lying. However, we can probably identify those who were and probably need to be sanctioned. I don't have a problem with that. Of course, I can talk about those student officials, which we must also separate from the employees of student organisations in order to understand each other. And no matter what. I have an experience with a student organization. It is called the Student Organisation of the University of Maribor and my experience with them is very good. Why? Because, as director of the University Students' Homes, I have been very cooperative with them, business premises are also in the premises of the Student Houses. Really, every day we met, we used to arrange things for those students who were socially at risk, both for those students who were handicapped in one way or another. That's why I can't agree to what Iva's colleague used to say not to make sure that students' families aren't taken care of by disabled students, and I can't agree that students' homes aren't being built. During my directing at the Students’ Homes in Maribor, we made or renewed or invested EUR 20 million in investments in student homes and thus restored all the student homes. It is true, however, that this has been done a little less in Ljubljana. It must be asked why Maribor was being built, but not in Ljubljana. And something small later happened in Primorsk, so it's probably also a matter of management and the thing about those who run these student homes. That's just a fact, and I can say with full responsibility here. I would therefore point out once again that it is the Student Organisation, at least the Mariborian one, who works well and works well on behalf and for the students, and I will not give up on it. As it is said, it is likely that some things will need to be changed significantly in the course of the student organisation, so I will also support this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Member Tomaž Lisec also gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Very briefly. I am pleased that at last there is one topic in the National Assembly where we agree, and although it is not a marginal topic, but a marginal topic concerning our students and students, especially students and students, and their first contact with some serious life, and here the student organization should be that organization, which would be very much in the clear, more than the students. In short, if students are still thinking about parties, it should be the student organisation that takes care of serious content. That is why, once again, I am pleased to receive support from all political parties for this law. I would agree with the predecessors, yes, we can see why we have not done this in the past, but I am personally sure, but I have been in the National Assembly for almost 15 years in such or other roles that there has been no right time. There have always been at least two political parties, who have also had a majority there, who would in no way support a change of law, and that is why today I am interested in listening to the views of individual parliamentary groups, which, unlike what they have sometimes advocated, there is no problem within the student organisation, because their members of the underage were also prominent student officials, that today we also receive support from these parties. So I hope here that the fingers are also in the hands of the Secretary of State, that the opinion of the Government is such that we all agree that the operation of the Student Organisation must be transparently upgraded. Perhaps this is the first step toward a serious overhaul of this law, perhaps a reflection. Personally, I belong to the problem of compulsory membership in all organizations. In that mandate of the so-called Janša governments, we have already taken certain forms of the organization's compulsory membership status, or the people in these organizations were against it, but the membership that was then forcibly introduced into individual organisations is now much more flexible and much more open. So perhaps, Mr Secretary of State, a thought in this direction. I very much like that some have also drawn attention to the Supreme Court judgment in 2011, which clearly stated where the Student Organisation belongs for its purpose to be a person of public law. Therefore, I am pleased that we will also talk about this subject at the parent's working body meeting, if today the law goes forward, where we will have such an opinion from the Government, which points out certain changes that are still needed in this law, that we will probably also have an opinion from the Legal Service, which may give a little more depth to its legal aspect of how things need to be resolved, and I hope that there too will be students' officials who, for the first time, will probably be able to respond to individual findings and, for the second time, also propose individual solutions. I hope that solutions will not go in the direction they are written here under the comment of the student organisation on the proposal of our law, which somehow goes in this direction, czech, we have a student constitution, it is written there and therefore there is no need to change the law. From this town again to all the student officials little in the lesson that the law over the student constitution is the law. So I really don't see any problems why the Student Organisation wouldn't support the law, of course, if we were to do it nomologically correctly, that the law would also record what they say is written in the student constitution. This is: the limitation of the duration of the term of office of management authorities for a maximum of 8 years, the adoption of provisions which the Student Organisation of Slovenia commits to the principles of the procurement procedure, the more precise determination of the debtors under the legislation governing the procedure for access and the re-use of information of a public nature, the commitment to the provisions of the law governing the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors and the adoption of an ethical code. In short, all that at least the current student authority has written or changed in the student constitution should be written in nominal terms also for the law, so I look forward to discussions on the parent's working body, where it will not only come to the words of us legislators, but it will also be the conclusion of the opinions of so many legal professionals, especially student organisations or probably even individual entities within the Student Organization, of how to properly satisfy all other legal standards that exist in this area. I hope that we will be as unanimous as we are today at this meeting of our mother's working body. In short, we will not come to a similar point that we came to in 2016 when we all agreed that things should be settled, but instead of supporting the law, a decision was taken to prepare a new law. I hope that the functioning of this composition of the Education Committee will be different and that we will only talk about legal solutions and we will not take any decisions that we see that the Government or the Ministry do not adhere to them. Conclusion, finally something to protect students and to avoid the untransparent operation of the Student Organisation. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First he gets the word from a government representative, Secretary of State Dr. Jernej Stromajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I'll make it short. In fact, I am pleased that we all agree that the intent of the law goes in the right direction and that there is no problem or that there is a broad consensus that we must regulate the public legal personality of the SOS. As it is said, the Government has already defined the SOS as a self-administrative and autonomous person of public law in a draft drafted by itself before this amendment was tabled. The questions that have opened up more will not only be of a technical nature, but of a legal nature, such that Members and Members will have to be removed in the course of the legislative process also in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. As it is said, the Government welcomes this and does not oppose it provided that the law is adequately supplemented in the course of the legislative process with provisions to ensure that the position of the organisation forms of the SOS is fully regulated. I probably still owe Mr Lisco the answer to the question of membership. We will not make this novel, this is a matter where we have different practices abroad. Let's say in France we have two student organisations, the UNEF and the FAGE, and in fact what happens is exactly what I believe none of us have the will, the great polarization and politicization of student organisations is even more drastic. You quickly form, like, a left and right student organization, and then one way or another, we have very diverse interlocutors. That's something. What we should also discuss with the student organisation is, however, what with this novel, I believe that we will not be able to resolve. As it is said, the Government opposes or welcomes the proposal to properly regulate the public-law entity of the SOS and to establish supervision of the Court of Auditors, and we have prepared this in our draft and the law will have to be drunk and supplemented, as has been said several times today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the representative of the proposer or the proposer. Ambassador Jean Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you. In view of the last thing the Secretary of State said, because Mr Lisec did not go this way to liberalise my case so as to create more student organisations. He spoke of voluntary membership, which is certainly worth considering once in the future. With this, of course, you will no longer allow the Student Organisation, but only voluntary membership, as should be in all the types of chambers we have in Slovenia. But it's not, not all of them. As far as what colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik said is concerned, far from flying more Ivo Dimic to say that everyone is bad. Of course not! But the problem is, it's always only those minuses. I believe there are many positive projects and aids in terms of social and so on, but we have also seen a clear graph of how much is this, a few percent, and 70% is about wages, entertainment and so on. There was a clear statement or cost specification and more should have been said by his colleague Bandelli. If you can do one thing with 2,000,500 euros, I don't know why it would take 5,000 euros to spend indefinitely. This is completely pointless and also unnecessary, and I believe that after we drink the matter a little more in the second reading, that the actual legal basis will be such that the various frauds we have now will not occur. Although the change in law will still not prevent 70,000 euros from disappearing overnight from a hotel room when it counts money in Shkis's market. But the bigger problem is that the police did nothing, and the other law enforcement agencies, there were no sanctions within Shkish, and then they rightly ask themselves – if there is already 70 thousand euros missing in organizations such as students in a few hours, and no one is interested in what is then where millions are disappearing! This is a much larger fish than individuals within the Student Organisation of Slovenia. So I'm glad we're all going to take one step in the right direction today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I do not see a desire for a debate, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on war veterans. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Tomaž Lisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I'm looking if there's any representatives of the departmental department -- they're gone. All right, colleagues, good-bye to you all! It is essentially a minor change in the field of Slovenian legislation, but it has an important substantive connotation. With the amendment of the War Veterans Act, we want to correct the injustices that we have committed: for the first time, with the Public Finance Balance Act, and for the second time, with the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and for the group that we believe is the foundation of the Slovenian state. The first and second marriages, the War Veterans Act, specifically state who may have the status of a war veteran or who he is. We will not be running here in speculation as to how someone has come to this status, whether justified or unjustifiable, or perhaps even why many did not want to gain the status of a veteran of war, but, once again, we are talking about two, in our opinion, minimal changes in order to correct the injustices of those people who have also given their health for Slovenian independence. What exactly are we talking about? The War Veterans Act has already changed one decision from the ZUJF, which is that it has already paid the premium of supplementary health insurance, but at the time obviously the coalition did not have the courage to do what we suggest. Thus, war veterans would have the same rights as they had before the ZUJF — that is to say, to lower the age limit for the exercise of the right to protection under the War Veterans Act from 55 to 50 years and to have their right to medical and climate treatment returned to them, so that the beneficiary can exercise his or her own right under the War Veterans Act or under any other regulation. These are two things that we are correcting from behind, as we say, according to what we are saying that the ZUJF has taken away many things, but that it is time — according to what time we are — for individual matters to be able to give back the rights already assigned to them. The other thing is that it happened after the last amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, when we decided that the minimum pension would start with 500 euros. We did something bad for veterans of war, because the censorship that touches them has not changed, and therefore, according to our proposal for a law, the basis and method for determining the right to a veteran supplement and its height has changed. The purpose of this is to increase the existing base by adapting to the increase in pensions, in particular the minimum pension. Earlier, this price was 497 euros – we are proposing to establish a base of EUR 550 to cover all those who were set at EUR 500 in 2017, just above the current base, at EUR 497. What exactly are we talking about? There are about 67,000 veterans of war in the Republic of Slovenia, of whom about 7 000 are currently receiving a veteran supplement and are being assisted by this group according to our proposal for a law. From this city and in the introduction to the presentation of the position, I would like to thank on behalf of the SDS Group all the war veterans who visited us in the sent-in offices and pointed out the anomalies that are open. Thus, as an anomaly due to the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources, and in particular the latest amendment to the PSI, which brought something to those people who gave their health to this country instead of something. Today we have the opportunity to correct the two injustices of the past and therefore we hope to receive a positive opinion from the groups of Members. In view of the government's opinion, however, it is clear here that if you do not support the law today and if the government does not submit a new Law on War veterans within six months, together with the amendment to the War Disabled Act, we will do so again in the SDS. In short, members of the coalition, you have time today to partially solve the problems of war veterans, and in the coming months, solve the problem of war disabled people, because if you do not do so, we will again do so in the SDS Group. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much! In order to introduce the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Breda Božnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, welcome! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Veterans, submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. According to the applicant, amendments and additions to the War Veterans Act are necessary for the reason that beneficiaries of the War Veterans Act are fully reimbursed, as was taken from them by the measures taken under the Public Finance Balance Act. It considers that the public financial situation allows for the establishment of a level of rights between the measures taken under that law. It proposes that the age limit be reduced from the exercise of rights under the War veterans Act from 55 years to 50 years, that the right to medical and climate treatment be restored and that the War veterans Act lays down a basis for determining the right to a veteran supplement and for determining its harmonisation in the amount and manner in which pensions are coordinated. Military veterans are provided with legal rights, i.e. a veteran supplement, an allowance for assistance and service, an annual allowance, health care, free driving, funeral and pension recognition at the age of 55, and before that in the event of a permanent total loss of working capacity. The reasons for changing the age condition at the age of 50 at the age of 55 are still justified in a comparative manner with respect to the age condition of 55 additional years for the application of individual rights under the War Disableds Act and comparatively with the already adopted and expected rises in the retirement age limit. The right to medical and climate treatment has been withdrawn from all so-called war beneficiaries, namely war veterans, war invalids and victims of war violence, whose legal protection is based on common past war events by means of a measure adopted under the Public Finance Balance Act. The return of the right only to war veterans would mean a distinction between those beneficiaries, which, under the content and conditions of its application, was the same for all war beneficiaries. We add that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are entitled to rights under health regulations and standards under conditions where health indications justify referral to medical and air-conditioning treatment. We further note that it proposes an arrangement when it comes to establishing the basis for determining the right to a veteran supplement and determining its harmonisation at the level and in the manner in which pensions are coordinated, does not systematically fall under the Law on War veterans. The Basic Procedural Law for the Enforcement of Rights under the War Veterans Act is the Law on War Disabled Persons, which makes sense for the dosage and coordination of the Veteran Supplement. The establishment of a basis for determining the right to a veteran supplement and its height in the War Veterans Act and coordination with pensions would result in unequal treatment of war veterans and war invalids. The rights to a veteran and a disabled person are the rights of a war veteran or a war invalid and differ only by name and are legally inadmissible and contrary to social justice would be a distinction that would contribute to the determination of the basis and coordination in the draft law. On those grounds, and on the basis of the conclusions expressed in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Veterans, submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and considers that it is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, will be presented by Ambassador Karl Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u54	All present, all well-known! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans. The key objective pursued by the Group of Members is to definitively remove all the consequences of the Public Finance Balance Act, which has reduced the level of funds allocated to military veterans for the financing of medical and climate treatment, has changed or raised the age limit from 50 to 55 to allow the exercise of the rights of war veterans, and has abolished the right to health insurance for those individuals of war veterans over 55 years of age who receive a veteran supplement. In 2014, the right to health insurance was partially recovered by amending the law in question or provided that economic growth exceeded 2.5 GDP in the current year. In recent years, the Republic of Slovenia has reached or exceeded that condition and, in the view of the parliamentary group, it is high time for us to fully restore to war veterans the rights they have been deprived of or restricted to them. In the LMŠ Group, we are aware of the role played by veterans in all wars of the 20th century. We are aware that without the firm determination of individuals united into different structures, such as the manoeuvre structure, then militiamen, members of the territorial defence, so war veterans, no doubt on June 25th this year could not mark the 28-year anniversary of the statehood of Slovenia, which they are all equally and equally grateful. The legislation has indeed been amended in 2014, but such rights are already covered by other sectoral laws that also regulate the rights of war veterans, war invalids, and families who have lost their fathers, brothers, because of the warmth and membership of their members. The right to medical and climatic treatment is also guaranteed by compulsory health insurance under health regulations, of course, provided that health indications justify such referral and this does not apply only to war veterans, but to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As regards the basis for determining the right to a veteran supplement, it should be pointed out that the basic procedural law for the enforcement of the right to a veteran supplement to a veteran war veteran is the Law on War Disabled Persons and the Law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia, which in fact sets the heights, uniform manner and deadlines for the coordination of individual types of transfers to individuals and households from public financial sources. Therefore, these two laws define the legal basis and method of payment for the veteran supplement. The proposal by the SDS Group only partially tackles systemic shortcomings, and the adoption of such a solution would in fact result in unequal treatment of war veterans and war invalids. It is our job to regulate the area in an integrated manner, not to undermine it from the established and equivalent-valued rights of all those who have helped us today to speak Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u56	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we point out that the rights of war veterans set out in the War Veterans Act demonstrate the recognition and gratitude of the Republic of Slovenia for the contribution that the veterans have made to the war, and the members of the defence and security forces who defended our independence in the war for Slovenia in 1991 have been given to the freedom and independence of Slovenia. We appreciate their courage, their unselfishness, their dedication, and their association. We appreciate that, in key historical moments, they have demonstrated their willingness to risk and sacrifice to defend our homeland from the aggressors. In today's debate, we should recall that already in 2012 the opposition Members, with their first signed Matjaz Han, proposed a novel ZUJF to prevent the permanent withdrawal of the right of war veterans to pay the supplementary health insurance premium. Unfortunately, our attempts to reintroduce the payment of the supplementary health insurance premium at the time were unsuccessful. The war veterans regained this right, in part received only from the amendment of the War Veterans Act 2014, which gave war veterans the right to payment of the supplementary health premium to which they were deprived of the ZUJF and the introduction of this right, linked to the condition of economic growth, which allowed for the payment of all social rights to a greater extent. The proposal that we are discussing today, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by the Group of Members and Members, envisages a reduction in the age limit for the recognition of the exercise of the right to protection under the War veterans Act from 55 to 50 years, the return of the right to medical and climate treatment, and a change in the basis and method of determining this basis for determining the right to a veteran supplement. With the adoption of the law, veterans would be in a significantly more favourable position than war disabled people who also exercise rights under the War Disabled Act at the age of 55 and also do not have the right to medical or climate treatment. We believe that the distinction between war veterans and disabled persons is not justified because both groups belong to justice because they have been involved in the same war events from the past. War veterans, like all other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, are already entitled to medical and climate treatment if their personal doctor considers that the referral to a health centre is justified and would benefit their health. We believe that the receipts of war veterans and war invalids must not and cannot be of a social nature, but rather compensation for the physical and mental injuries suffered in war events, which are an expression of our gratitude. At the same time, we believe that the conditions for the exercise of rights should be the same for war veterans as for war invalids. In addition, it should also be mentioned that if we adopted a proposal from the Group of Members and Members, we would need at least €700 million and more additional appropriations for this purpose. On the one hand, the SDS Group is proposing legislative proposals that increase budgetary spending and, on the other hand, is accusing the Government of not respecting the fiscal rule because it did not foresee a sufficiently high amount of saved budgetary money in this year's budget and has even submitted a constitutional assessment for the 2019 budget. For those reasons, we believe that the draft law proposed by the Group of Members and Members is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much! Ambassador Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you for your word! Respected and respected! The main reason why the applicant justifies the need to adopt today's amendment to the War Veterans Act is that it foresees a record public spending balance for 2019. Therefore, they consider it appropriate for the ZUJF to return its rights to the remaining social groups which have not yet recovered their work. All well and well, but it is somewhat unintentional that, on the one hand, the Government and the coalition with the constitutional assessment of the budget's rebalancing are clear that it gives and spends too much, and on the other hand it requires exactly what the proponents basically oppose; that it is given more or even too much. In 1995, a package of war legislation was adopted providing special protection and care in accordance with Article 50 of the Constitution for war veterans and victims of war violence. We're talking about the War Disabled Act, the War Veterans Act and the War Violence Victims Act. Before 2012, so before the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, rights under war law were enjoyed by both veterans and war disabled persons and victims of war violence. Among other things, this was true of the right to medical and climate treatment. Today we face the proposal that this right should only be returned to war veterans. We're wondering why. Where the grounds for such a distinction are justified, however, if the right to medical treatment, in substance and conditions for its application, was the same for all war beneficiaries and was taken away from all in 2012. In today's debate, we expect the applicant to make an appropriate argument on this distinction. Similar issues are also raised when establishing a censorship to determine the right to a veteran supplement and its harmonisation in the amount and manner of the pensions being coordinated. The solution offered to us in the SDS would mean that war veterans would be subject to a different basis and a different mode of coordination than that of war disabled persons who are entitled to a disability allowance. According to our assessment, these rights are related in their content and we do not see the point of determining their basis and their way of coordination being different. The basic law to resolve these relations is the War Disability Act and not the War Veterans Act that we are considering today. It seems even more reasonable to us to reduce the age limit for the acquisition of rights, but it is also important to realize that most war veterans who gained status by participating in defence activities during the 1991 aggression against the Republic of Slovenia have already reached the age of 55 and thus have fulfilled the age requirement for the exercise of rights under the applicable law. In the SMC Group, we respect and appreciate all those who have ever fought for the unity of Slovenian territory and the independence of our country. We are convinced that this is what all Members and Members of Parliament and all citizens and citizens believe. In the previous term, we have also proposed some others, according to our assessment, more comprehensive solutions to the War Veterans Act, but unfortunately, political will and time have run out to hold a more serious debate on them. It is right that injustices be corrected and rights returned if justified reasons so warrant. We agree with this, but it is right that injustices be corrected in the way they were taken away; therefore, to all categories of war beneficiaries. As this essential condition in the proposed additions and amendments to the law is unfortunately not met, we cannot support it in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ambassador Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! It's not the first time you've proposed legislation in the SDS that eliminates the consequences of your ZUJF. It is good, of course, that you do this, although this time the reasons are not right. The reason is that you are not in power this time — and when you are, you cut. Regarding the right to climate treatment, the amendment was tabled at the time of the adoption of the ZUJF and was ignored by today's applicants. The second thing, of course, is that the proposals of the ZUJF eliminate strongly selectively. Today, perhaps it would have been different if selective matters had been handled when one law had done so much damage. Let's see what they have written in explanation of what they have done, I quote, “By abolishing the exercise of the right to medical and climate treatment under the laws of war, the doubling of the exercise of this right is abolished, since it is already guaranteed to all citizens on the basis of the Health and Health Insurance Act”. So the question is, do you like being double-crossed now, whether you were maybe dishonest at the time, or what you didn't know, respected proponents. However, you are also selective in the proposal we are talking about today, because you know that this area is actually governed by three laws. When we had a bill on the table to regulate the right to medical and climate treatment for both war invalids and war veterans and victims of war violence, members of the SDS then obstructed the meeting of the mother labour body with the Social Democrats, along with New Slovenia, along with Desus. You've acted opportunistically, which is what you're doing today. When you accepted the ZUJF, you had no trouble cutting into all three laws and cutting down the rights arising from them. We are in Levica and will also strongly oppose austerity measures in the future. It has been shown that the latter increase inequality, break up the social state and are harmful to any state policy in the long term. Now, even the economic profession stresses that fiscal savings bring more harm than benefits. In this light and only for this reason is the final reason why we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War veterans in Levica today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ambassador Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we were under great pressure at the time of the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. No one, nor did we want the Public Finance Balance Act, but it was an urgent and only road that we saw at the time in a tight economic situation and with a hole in the state budget. We are aware that no one has actually been satisfied with this law. At that time, we received numerous letters, personal stories and so on, to which we answered and repeatedly stressed that the situation in Slovenia was really difficult. The veterans also paid and still carry their share of the burden, and we all hope that it will not be long. The proposed law would reduce the age limit for the exercise of the right to protection under this Act from 55 to 50 years. The right to medical and climate treatment is restored to war veterans and the basis and method for determining the right to a veteran supplement is changing on a fixed basis of EUR 500. We support the proposed solutions in New Slovenia and the current government is responsible for assessing where it can provide sufficient resources for this purpose in the budget. We support and vote in favour of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Veterans of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u64	President, thank you for your word. The Slovenian Constitution provides special protection to war veterans and victims of war violence, as regulated by the War Veterans Act. This includes categories of war veterans, the rights of war veterans and the conditions for their application. One of the rights governed by the law in question is the right to a veteran supplement. This one depends on the social position of a war veteran. The latter is eligible for the supplement if the amount of its remuneration does not exceed EUR 497 and the veteran has completed 55 years. The proposed amendment to the War Veterans Act, tabled by the SDS Group, gives war veterans the right to medical and climate treatment, reduces the age limit for obtaining war veteran status from 55 to 50 years and raises the basis for obtaining a veteran supplement from good €497 to €550. In the SAB Group, we believe that the proposed amendments are not appropriate, so we will not support the bill. This decision is justified by the following. The right to medical and air-conditioning treatment is guaranteed to everyone under compulsory health insurance, even though under the War Veterans Act, the legal basis for its application is still provided by health regulations and standards, of course, provided that the health indications of the individual justify the referral to medical and air-conditioning treatment. So they only get the necessary treatment. Next. The basis for determining the right and height of a veteran supplement under the War Veterans Act is the same as ensuring the right to a disability allowance under the War Disabled Act. The provisions of the Disabled Persons of War Act on the disability supplement shall also apply mutatis mutandis with regard to the dosage and coordination of the veteran additive. And since the War Disabled Act is also a basic procedural law to enforce the right to a veteran supplement, it would be necessary to amend the War Disabled Act and the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposer of amendments to these two laws does not foresee and thus forgets the concern and responsibility for the quality of the rules. However, harmonised rules are one of the many conditions for the effectiveness of the rule of law and the effective functioning of the rule of law. In addition to this, the determination of the basis and the level of the veteran supplement to the Veterans Act, together with the coordination of pensions, would result in unequal treatment of war veterans and war invalids. This would still be subject to certain provisions of the War Disability Act, but with a different basic and method of coordination. Both rights, both the right to a veteran and the right to a disability allowance, are the rights of a war veteran or a war invalid, and differ only by name, so any distinction between them is legally inadmissible and contrary to social justice. The draft law does not ensure consistent implementation of the principle of equality, which applies to one fundamental constitutional principle of a democratic and legal state. The government warned of all of this. In addition to what is stated in the SAB Group, we do not understand how the proposer may, on the one hand, request a constitutional assessment of the state budget and expect savings from the Government and, on the other hand, propose a novel that brings new financial burdens. These could not even be found due to lack of data. In the SAB Group, we will not support the bill before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans. In the opinion of the applicants, amendments and amendments to the law are necessary for the purpose of fully returning to war veterans, as was taken by the measures introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act during the economic crisis, and the main creator of the Act was this parliamentary group. Following the adoption of the ZUJF, which was then seen as a necessary and inevitable step towards stabilising public finances, several bills have already been tabled on this particular topic of war veterans. We have successfully returned the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium to the full extent for all veterans with status. However, the time-limit for the return of this right, which was linked to 2,5 % economic growth, was fulfilled in January 2017. The content of the proposal under consideration today says that the rights and their scope for war veterans should be returned to a pre-crisis level. It should immediately reduce the age limit for the exercise of rights from 55 years to 50 years, restore the right to medical and climate treatment and increase the basis for determining the right to a veteran supplement and its height above the minimum pension for the full pension period. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that there is virtually no reason to save today, which struck Slovenia and Slovenia in 2012 and in the next few years. It is clear that the public financial situation has been significantly better for several years and most of the so-called austerity measures have already been eliminated, which would lead to the bill's proponents hearing and amending the War Veterans Act. In the Desus Group we deeply appreciate the immeasurable achievements of all groups of war veterans throughout the history of Slovenia. Their sacrifice for being a single and sovereign state today is an unmistakable fact for us, but in our view the proposed law has been written somewhat too quickly and superficially. According to our assessment, the consequences of this law have not been sufficiently carefully weighed. This is not so much about financial consequences, but that the conclusions of what is proposed only for war veterans will lead to a distinction between categories of war beneficiaries. Perhaps this has been done even on purpose by the proposers. The right to medical and climate treatment has been taken by the ZUJF measure to all war beneficiaries, namely war veterans, war invalids and victims of war violence. Since the current explanation of the measure explained that the right of everyone is guaranteed under compulsory health insurance and that, despite the abolition of status under the so-called war legislation, the legal basis for the enforcement of such treatment is still guaranteed under the applicable general health rules and standards, we do not see the need to amend the law in this part. However, if justice is returned only to war veterans by means of a record in this particular law, people with disabilities and victims of war violence are eliminated. As for the new way of determining the height of a veteran supplement, we also find that the proposal is discriminatory to war disabled people. It is the desire of the applicants to exempt veterans from the current group and to define the basis and coordination that applies to both the veteran supplement and the supplement to war disabled. As a result, this means for war invalids the basis for the calculation of an allowance of €497 and for war veterans the basis of €550. Furthermore, the proposed coordination of the base and consequently the level of the Veteran supplement in line with pensions constitutes an additional gap between the two groups. In the Desus Group, we do not want to put any group of beneficiaries at the forefront of any war that marked our Slovenian homeland and land. So far, legal protection is based and stems from common past war events, so we do not want to change the social situation of war participants in such a way as to create unequal treatment of one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Last but not least, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Embassy Group will be presented by Member Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u68	Your Honor! Why do we have a country of our own? Is that luck, a coincidence? I don't think so. The independent Slovenian state is the result of years of efforts by Slovenes and Slovenians who had a vision and courage to take the future into their own hands. Many of them were willing to risk their lives to realize their dreams of independence. We must be particularly grateful to them, and not just in words, including and especially in actions. In 2009, Europe and the world were hit by an economic and economic crisis. Many countries have reacted in a timely and decisive manner and have avoided painful public expenditure interventions. But Slovenia has missed all opportunities for adaptation under Borut Pahor's rule. In 2012, the government of SDS took over the country on the dangerous edge of bankruptcy. There was no other option than painful measures for citizens. With a heavy heart, but with the knowledge that this is best for the country and citizens in the long term, she accepted the ZUJF. Despite many criticisms, the left hand was quietly very glad that she was unpopular, but the government of Janez Janša took urgent action. That is true, the fact shows that no government has changed the law since 2013. Some measures have even changed into permanent ones, as the left-wing governments were not prepared to give up new sources of income. But the recession appears cyclically, and even for Slovenia, it was once over. After all, it's late, compared to competing countries, but still. We are now recording economic growth, and the government has raised consumption by more than a billion euros. Therefore, it is appropriate to return what belongs to those groups that bear part of the cost of saving. Such a group are also veterans of war. There are about 67,000 in Slovenia, of which about 7 000 are currently receiving a veteran supplement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the War Veterans Act because we are convinced that their status should be regulated at the pre-crisis level. We propose a reduction in the age limit for the exercise of the right of protection under the War Veterans Act from 55 years to 50 years, the return of the right to medical and climate treatment and the change in the censorship for the veterinary supplement. We want to correct what the veterans have taken away from the last amendment of the pension law by raising the minimum pension to EUR 500. The award for the status of a war veteran is 497.15 euros. In practice, the rise of a minimum pension of EUR 500 meant the loss of a veteran supplement to a number of beneficiaries who, as a whole, were significantly worse off after this change. The proposed law has minimal financial implications for the state budget. The solutions we are proposing would require a maximum of €7 million. If there is money to raise wages in the public sector, to raise social aid and to migrants, then there is no reasonable reason to oppose the restitution of rights to those for whom we now live in a single country. The bill is fair and necessary, so we will gladly support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a law, first of all by the proposaler, Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you. “There is nothing new in the West” – the coalition reads the government's opinion and then we listen five times to similar reading exercises by the law-holders. To begin with, given that there have been many speeches on the correction of injustices and on the distinction and on the law on disabled persons of war, a number of questions were raised primarily for representatives of the Government, who wrote an opinion which was then repeated by members of the coalition in such or other forms of language. Does a war invalids lose something with this marriage? First question. Second question: Do war invalids who have the status of a war veteran get what? And the third question: Have you yourself brought about the last amendment of the Law on Retirement and Disability Insurance to war veterans because you have forgotten that there is a basis for their determination? The three questions that I want short answers to may also be the word "yes", "no" enough. While citizens and citizens, especially war veterans, may have been monitoring this implementation in this law, I have received several messages. One key message was to remind all future debaters that we are not talking about social rights in the War Veterans Act. That's not social justice. In war veterans, we know exactly what group of people we're talking about. If you do not know who we are talking about, read article 1 of the law, which speaks of who is a veteran of war, article 2 of the law, which speaks of who is a veteran of war. The status was granted to people, as stated in the law, “because in the war or military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, they carried out military duty for the defence of the Republic of Slovenia” and so on. In short, they have status because of their actions not because of their status. I hope that in this Chamber we are all old enough, including the youngest Members, to be old enough to remember what was happening in the war of 1990, when brave men, men and women, put themselves first against the aggressor who was considered a fear and awe of his power in Europe at that time. I have previously asked three short questions to the representatives of the Government, and I am also asking them the fourth question that I have already had in the introduction. Given that your opposition to this law follows from somehow introducing a distinction between war veterans and war invalids, will you prepare your own novels of other laws affecting this area, or will you wait until November 2019 and to deal with these laws when the proposer will be the same – the SDS Group? Question five: Why should war be the same for the disabled and for the veterans of war? In Slovenia we have a lot of rights, this group, that group, that third group, there are no groups that have rights. What would be wrong if the War Veterans Act stated that the rights of war veterans were not 100 percent aligned with the rights of disabled warlords? I hope that you will answer these short questions, distinguished representatives or representatives of the Government. Now allow me to comment on this copy-paste position on behalf of the proposaler. The LMŠ said it was a populist and partial solution. Dear representatives of the LMŠ, I propose that you submit your amendment to the War Veterans Act in a short time, your amendment to the War Disabled Act, and some novels that will fix what was taken from the ZUJF and also what was taken from the last amendment of the ZPIZ, where the same circle of Members voted to raise the minimum pension and to wrong the war veterans. If you do not believe that the last novel of the ZPIZ has been wronged, then from this place I call on all veterans of war with the right to a veteran supplement to contact Members of the LMŠ, SMC, Desus, SD and SAB in their own words, tell them what happened to them with the adoption of the last novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. In short, LMŠ is the leading government party; less talk, more work and I hope that you will come as soon as possible with your law or with your legislation in this area to resolve matters in an integrated manner. But respectable colleagues from LMSH, you're not original here either. You repeat the words of the previous Members of the previous reference, especially Members who are no longer here, who have heard the SMC's name in every law saying that no, this law is not systematic, we will prepare a system law. And then we made a lot of marriages the second time, and it was said again that it wasn't systemic, so we're going to make it systemic. And systemic solutions, look at the fraction, there isn't and there isn't! But all of this is in favour of the state budget and to the detriment of Slovenian citizens. And once again, we're talking about war veterans. People who deserve respect, not just in words, especially in actions. Secondly, I hope that the SD Group member will tell you where he found a 700 million-dollar bill. According to our calculations available to us, I believe that you have them in the coalition, especially in the Ministry more, we have reached a maximum of 7 million. And then I'll talk a little bit more about the numbers that this coalition is operating on in support of or non-supporting an individual law. If I am correctly listening to a Member of the SAB Group, in fact, in the SDS Group in this mandate, given that we have decided on a constitutional review of the rebalancing, we must no longer propose any law with financial implications. For it is only a coalition that can be wasted and the opposition must be silent because we have decided to call on the Constitutional Court to help defend the financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia. But this same gentleman, who said that the law has too much financial implications, says that it is not possible to determine the financial consequences. We have tried to identify them, and since April onwards, when we introduced the law, we have expected that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs may find out what the maximum financial contribution was to correct the injustices of the two laws — and once again the war veterans. Desus said there's no reason to save, but we're against it. I'm not getting along with this. There's no reason to save, but we'll be against it. In short, Desus, who supports the signing of the agreement with Levica in the knowledge of 1.4 billion because it was not known at the time, 1.4 billion, has problems with 7 million. Despite ensuring that there are no reasons to save. Again, to all those of you who've been talking about how we're partially solving things. Look at the fragment. ZUJF took three things from war veterans. Then why did you return only one? Why weren't you systemic and destroyed by the whole of the ZUJF or just in this area or the whole of the ZUJF? In short, what you read to the proponents, you're doing on your own. On the other hand, allow some more questions on the financial implications of this law and legislative proposals in this National Assembly. As it is said, we will probably listen every time the SDS introduces a law, look, it sticks, they give the Constitutional Court an initiative to verify the usefulness of the use of left-wing power, and therefore they have no right. What's 7 million for war veterans? How many times after seven million – I hope you will know how to calculate this because it is a simple mathematical matter – how many times after seven million do we have to give to get to the amount of 1.4 billion because the others have calculated instead of you that it will cost only the signing of one pear event of the coalition's sent groups for the side party of the Left? And once again, while you are saying that injustices must be corrected, we have committed new injustices in this mandate by implementing the PIC. In this part, I will conclude with this: What kind of ZUJF will be needed once the left authorities in Slovenia have succeeded? Who will have the courage to make a new ZUJF, a ZUJF-2 that will be worth much more than the one from 2012? Just a call: that ZUJF was worth 800 million, only your signature of the superpartner agreement with the party Levica cost people 1.4 billion. Who are you going to do the wrongs again while you're talking about eliminating the wrongs? In short, it's typical: one left party speaks, the other one works, but they don't support solutions that go in the direction of what you defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The government can take advantage of the opportunity and the answers to these questions; otherwise, we can continue to report on the discussions. Do you want to answer? Later. Good. Given that there are many changes, Member Jožef Horvat will be given the floor first, followed by Member Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! As we say, we will support this amendment of the War Veterans Act. True, we were next to 2012; we were part of the coalition when we had to – there was no other way out, ladies and gentlemen – adopt the ZUJF. It was very difficult and practical for seven years we listened to how ugly we were then to take the ZUJF to take austerity measures. That's what those who weren't there at the time say. They haven't even had a registered political party yet. But it's a very appropriate topic that's been spinning around here for seven years now, pumping, as it's called, but there's no alternative. We have taken over the government after a terrible recession. At that time, we wrote that economic growth is minus 7%, ladies and gentlemen. Minus 7%! The country was before the bankruptcy. If you don't believe me, ask the representatives of Desus, who are now in the coalition and who were also in the coalition. This amendment to the law was practically written as an implicit part of the ZUJF already in 2012. Why? Because in the ZUJF there was a diction to abolish austerity measures, as you call it, as soon as the country records economic growth of 2.5 per cent or more in the past year. How many years have we had significantly higher economic growth than 2.5? It's been a couple of years. Thank God! This is due exclusively to the Slovenian economy, no one else, and to the Slovenian working people. Because the economy is not just employers. No, they're employers and employees. We always see it as a logical whole. He writes to me a war veteran who feels humiliated, ashamed. He writes to me and asks me how he and his wife should survive with 290 euros plus 500 euros of his wife's pension, totaling 790 euros. He's a third-class invalid, he's getting a disability allowance. This rose from 190 to 200 after the last pension raise, but the veteran supplement we receive declined. He's asking me how to survive. I believe that a veteran supplement cannot be such a powerful social measure that it is not in fact that a person can live a decent life. Now what's the problem if you say it's non-systemic and so on? If you say that what the proposed law provides is not good, the reduction in the age limit for the exercise of protection rights under this Act from 55 to 50 and that the right to medical and air-conditioning treatment is returned to war veterans, and the basis and method for determining the right to a veteran supplement is changed on a fixed basis of EUR 500. In fact, it is very difficult to discuss this novel of law, I am also a veteran of war for Slovenia, I was in uniform for 17 days during the war for Slovenia, and I hope that I will never do so. Do we give anything to our citizens, to our country? Do we want to be grateful in some way to those who have shown themselves in key moments? Or we'll just come to the phone and say, we support veteran wars for Slovenia, we support veteran wars and so on, but we don't give anything or a fig. Now's the chance. Now's the chance. If, a respected coalition, this law is not good for you because it did not come from the right side, it is very simple: in one night the government team or the ministerial team must then write a better law to remove all the measures unfortunately brought by the ZUJF; and you will be the main heroes. Why don't you do it? Because the ZUJF is good for you, but you're hitting on us because we accepted it. This is a duality, and I find it very difficult to hear about these things, which are practically from month to month, from the session to session, spinning and repeating like crap. Not correct, not correct. Who, if not me, the legislative branch of power, will not respect war veterans? Who? And if we really don't understand, you don't understand why it was necessary to accept the ZUJF, then it's no different than for you to take the actions of the ZUJF in full; and we should have done this a long time ago, in the time of the previous government of Cerara. I have a feeling that you are not willing to be in the coalition of this will because it is always very appropriate to use this topic, this staff for some political debate in the National Assembly. If we have political accounts, ladies and gentlemen, on the shoulders of war veterans, then we can only be ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Member Predrag Baković has the floor. He will be given the word of Ambassador Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u74	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! The bill that we are facing today is only one in a series of laws that the opposition, in addition to the likeness of such a law, has passed into some very own contradiction. Because a person gets the sense that they don't know what they're doing, because once such a proposal is, in another case, it's different, and it's expressed in two ways. At first glance, the history of the war veterans ’ law with its changes that this law has experienced in history has undergone quite a few changes. Once they were granted rights to veterans, on another occasion they were deprived of their rights, which caused discomfort and dissatisfaction among veterans. I am also a veteran, and I am for some proper and concrete realization of the rights of veterans. I bear the silver mark of independence, i.e. the silver star of the North, which means that I was actively involved in the prevention of a rally of truth and was also actively involved in a self-serving war; but I am not a top-notch national dignitary or an organizer of national protection. All the amendments to this law, which concerned the abolition of the benefits to war veterans, have been personally taken with bitter taste, especially because the benefits of the widest range of veterans have been abolished, while the smaller groups have remained. I am thinking of an annual allowance, which belongs in addition to veterans with a recognised pension period of two years, a fighter for the northern border, a military volunteer, a medallionist with the highest national ranking, as well as an organizer of national protection. These received the annual remuneration all the time, regardless of any changes to the law and regardless of the savings after the ZUJF. These are, according to 2016 data, 620. Here I am asked why they did not intervene in the exercise of the ZUJF and also in the right to this annual remuneration. The answer is itself offered, because this would also deprive some of the stars of Slovenian independence. Your Honor, this was about inequality. We used to say, "If it's war, it's war for everyone. But it wasn't for everyone. It was saved in those who already had nothing or struggled little of this War Veterans Act. Today, a respected opposition, when you are not in the government, you are trying to give us back what you have taken from us. The second view of the contradiction of this proposal or opposition is as follows. The opposition is constantly imposing laws that have great, sometimes huge, financial implications, and does not take into account the sustainability of the budget or fiscal rules, but nevertheless it is investing in such laws. Although you have submitted such laws and are also investing, you have also submitted a request for a constitutional review of the budgetary documents under which you have signed the SDS and NSI Members. And it is in this constitutional assessment request that you propose that the Constitutional Court find that the budgetary documents are inconsistent with the Constitution and that the Constitutional Court order the Government to prepare a rebalancing within a month. How should we accept such novelties at this time with financial implications while at the same time expecting the unconstitutionality of the budgetary documents? This shows not only contradiction but also hypocrisy or hypocrisy. That's what bothers me the most about this novel. The opposition will then show again on social networks a list of Members' votes, czech, see how Members voted, once not for the pensioners, twice for the disabled, the third time for the veterans of war, and so on. The proposed novel, as has already been heard today, brings some inequalities. Again, there will be some differences between war veterans and disabled people, which is not fair. Both groups somehow belong to the same rights arising from the common past war events. Under existing legislation, war veterans are now aligned with the age limit for the exercise of rights under the War Disabled Act, and once the novel is adopted, differences would be made again. The novelty prepared by the opposition is attractive, but contrary to itself, in particular in view of their request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the budgetary documents. And here you can see the real purpose of making this novel, in people trying to get a negative opinion on the government, on the coalition, which is making it worse and, of course, strengthening the opposition. In doing so, all the funds, including vulnerable groups, have been used, as has been shown in the implementation of the ZUJF, when the rights of the poorest were affected. That's why I won't support this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Lenart has the floor. He will be given the floor by Ambassador Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present guests! Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Years ago, our invaders, the veterans of today’s war, were more valued than they are today, since it has been almost 30 years since their independence. Some of us here know them or we know them personally, and of course we have to give them all the respect, I will say at home — the hat down. And if we play a role, as my colleague has said, which is also a veteran, these people, to whom we want to use today's proposal in some way to restore the rights they had before the ZUJF. Because we are not doing so badly if we look at the figures in the budget, that the number of employees in the public administration is increasing and that we will spend around 8% more on salaries and other costs in the public administration in 2019 than we did in 2018, so we should not be a problem and provide these votes here today, respected colleagues and fellow Members, and also provide these few million euro of additional expenditure from the budget for such an important issue as a right. In view of the unfair suspension of the payment of the veteran supplement and of the objections of our war veterans, our defenders today have this proposal for amendments to the law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in place. We must not allow ourselves to forget the heroism of our fellow citizens and their financial status, which, simply said, is sometimes very sad. A few days ago, I attended a celebration in Ptuj, where we remembered the first actions for independent Slovenia, the first shots of the Yugoslav People's Army against the Slovenian population and the first wounded civilian. I must say that most veterans there did not agree with what our colleague from the Social Democrats said today, namely that we are trying to resolve matters in an unequal way. We have therefore met with members of the veteran association, members of the war on Slovenia, including the President of the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, Mr Lipic, and have been told that they support our proposal; despite the fact that they have also proposed to the government changes to this war veteran law, and that they are waiting for the results of these ongoing talks. They also published on their website a letter from the President of the Association of Lipič to the members, stating that he estimated that the proposal was a party for him to be Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to be a variable association and would be supported by them in public hearing. I don't know what kind of association a colleague belongs to. I estimate that they may be disappointed about the slowness of the coalition in making changes and are welcome to make any changes. The ZUJF did cut into their accessories, but I think that later, as pensions were rising, there was some sort of unconscious error that, in fact, because of the censorship of this limit under which the supplement is justified, some who already had it have lost this supplement and do not receive the supplement for veteran war veterans. The government says, as Mrs Boznik says today, with all due respect that the law does not support, including because we want to help return rights to only one group, namely war veterans. But we should also help veterans, disabled people, and victims of war violence. Okay, it's understandable, but, honourable Members, the coalition and the government, if you're all so well aware of the importance of the problem, why haven't you already put it in? Why is there an unanimity now when we're investing because you're hesitating? All right, well, you guys let me fix these injustices if you're aware of them. Let's fix it, please, and give everyone back these rights. But not in 2020, 2021 or 2022. What has been said on your part today is just an excuse to delay the resolution of this problem. This group of our fellow citizens who are responsible for defending our right to self-determination and our independence is indeed not in place. On behalf of the war veterans for Slovenia and on behalf of fellow Members of the parliamentary group, I ask you to support the proposal in question, to complete it, and to remedy these injustices within a few months, not for several years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Member Vojko Starović has the floor. She will be followed by Mrs Matei Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'll say it again. When proposals for laws that resolve matters in a partial manner come forward, we intervene in the responsibility and concern for the quality of regulations. We know that the country is legally bound by the rules, by the law, and the laws must be harmonised among themselves. In this case, there is once again a contradiction, as we have said in our opinion by Alenka Bratušek. We're not against the regulation of war veterans, but we're against just partial matters. The determination of the basis and the level of the Veteran Supplement in the War veterans Act, together with the coordination of pensions, would result in unequal treatment of war veterans and war invalids. This would still be subject to certain provisions of the War Disability Act, but with a different basis and method of coordination. Both rights, the right to a veteran and the right to a disability allowance, are the rights of a war veteran or a war invalid. They're only different by name. Therefore, any distinction between them is not acceptable and is also in conflict with the principle of righteousness. Nor does the proposal guarantee the implementation of the principle of equality, so we cannot support this proposal, although we are substantively concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, he will be given the floor, Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Very briefly. I would really like the representatives of the Ministry to join the floor. In addition to all the questions I had earlier about war invalids or losing or or those war invalids who also have the status of a double veteran, what they get, I am interested in one question; with regard to the implementation of the predecessor. The president said that the distinction is not permissible because we have legislation in Slovenia. What law do we break if we adopt this law? I'm not talking about equality, inequality, the National Assembly is here to give certain groups certain rights. Where are we in breach of the legislative regulation if the Member says that the distinction is not permissible? And I wonder: Is the distinction unacceptable, or is it permissible, or is it the one who determines that war veterans and disabled persons must have exactly the same rights? Because if we had the exact same rights, we'd name them the same. But we do have two marriages, and you're saying that now the distinction is not allowed. In my opinion, the distinction is admissible and exists now. Today, I listen to this mantra, which sits in the last paragraph of the opinion of the Government – distinction is not permissible. Therefore, I propose to the distinguished representatives of the Ministry that you respond to this crucial dilemma, whether the distinction between war invalids and war veterans is permissible or not. And if it's unacceptable, on what grounds? Or just because of words in laws or current regulations, it is not permissible; or there is some higher act that says that war veterans must be equal with war invalids. Sooner or later, I also expect answers to those questions, which would be very important for further discussion, which clearly goes in the wrong direction. Instead of talking about what they're getting, you want to turn the debate into what they're losing. I'm sure, according to our proposal for a war, the disabled will lose nothing. Please, can you confirm this, or deny it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Does the government want to answer questions now? Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u82	With all due respect for the veterans of war, with all due respect for the bill's proponents, I must stress once again that the basis cannot be regulated in the War Veterans Act and we cannot resolve matters in part, as has already been mentioned several times today. The government, or Ministry of Labour, advocates equal treatment for all wartime beneficiaries, including war veterans, disabled persons, and victims of war violence. I can confirm and ensure that in the future we will pursue all possible arrangements, which will be integrated and more favourable for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The text shall be given to Mr Matei Udovč. The next one will have the word of Ambassador Jean Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. If veterans and veterans were thus to go to war for independent Slovenia and free Slovenia, as we do here in the National Assembly, to resolve their status and entitlements, we would not be discussing this today. Why? Only a small “s” could remain from a free and independent Slovenia, and addressing the current problem could only be a side issue. But the truth is completely different. The vast majority of Slovenians made a clear decision more or less 30 years ago to rebel and fulfill the centuries-old dreams of Slovenians after independent, independent and free Slovenia. Each has contributed in its own way to the realization of this objective. Most of them grabbed arms, either on duty or as volunteers, and without further ado, the calculations responded to the call of the country. Even so, they had more volunteers than weapons at certain locations. In a short but very determined war, we have shown who and what we are and what we want to achieve. Sadly, though, we also paid for our independence with blood. The blood of those individuals who fought in the front lines with a powerful and much better equipped and armed army of the then JLA. These were the territorialists and the militias of the day. The victims of these conflicts were also foreigners on barricades, foreign journalists, innocent citizens of Slovenia. Remembrance and pride of war events and their actors, today war veterans of 1991, associated with the independence of Slovenia, in particular the consequences and victims of these events, should never have faded. Together, we are obliged to preserve a living memory of breaking events in our history and their actors. All active participants must be systematically and clearly regulated by the status and entitlements arising from them. This area is regulated by the War veterans Act, the War Disabled Persons Act and the War Violence Victims Act. In addition, he deeply intervened in these entitlements, as well as in certain partial solutions in the field legislation. Despite that legal arrangement, however, war veterans are still not fully cared for. The problems involved in financing their societies, establishing new associations and societies within veteran organisations that have absolutely no connection with veteranism, raising the age limit, asserting rights, medical and climate treatment, calculating the veteran supplement, solving the housing problem of war veterans, different interpretations of the criteria for obtaining war veteran status, and more and more. While this topic is very welcome to warm up old resentments, raising political capital and comparing who and what more has been done. However, the fact remains that this area is in fact not fully and systematically regulated. Every so long, however, there is a former minister who takes care of a partial solution, but the main problems remain the same. This proposal, proposed by the SDS Group, does not fully address the problems of war veterans and follows an old manner. It offers a solution for only three sets of problems and leaves the other problem open. Even more, the adoption of this proposal would result in new injustices or inequalities. In the SDS they propose the right to medical and climate treatment only for war veterans, but not for the other two categories under war laws, these are war invalids and victims of war violence. In order not to be misunderstood, I personally strongly support the return of this right to all the three categories of beneficiaries they had prior to the implementation of the ULJF measures. I am also committed to reducing the age limit in the exercise of rights under the War Veterans Act, although I am convinced that today the vast majority has reached the age of 55. The establishment of a basis for determining the right to a veteran supplement and determining its harmonisation in the amount and manner in which pensions are coordinated does not systematically fall under the Law on War veterans. This solution would also lead to a similar legal situation as in the first case, i.e. unequal treatment of war veterans and war invalids. The Basic Procedural Law for the Enforcement of Rights under the War Veterans Act is the Law on War Disabled Persons, which makes sense for the dosage and coordination of the Veteran Supplement. In the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we have already prepared a new law in the previous mandate to deal with certain open issues concerning war veterans. The solutions proposed were different and, above all, broader than what the SDS currently proposes. The new law contained proposals for a more detailed and uniform definition of the concept of a veteran organisation and an integrated regulation of the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest, for clearer criteria for obtaining the status of a veteran of war, for eliminating injustices, for regulating the housing problem for war veterans who live after retirement in public service establishments, and for obtaining the right to look into the records of veteran war veterans for the purposes of implementing the Ministry of Defence's obligations as a decision-maker to co-finance the activities of veteran organisations and veteran organisations to the decision-makers for co-financing of veteran organisations operating in the public interest. As we have already found, in this case it is a complex and multi-layer issue which is also related to the rest of the legislation in force. For these reasons, I will not support the SDS bill. The problem raised must be addressed in a systematic and comprehensive manner, so that the rights of veterans can be legally corrected. That's the least we have to do for them after all this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The situation on the list of discussers is changing rapidly. He will now receive the word of Ambassador Jože Lenart. And after him is Ambassador Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, changes and additions to the War Veterans Act are necessary, as after almost 28 years of the war on Slovenia in 1991 there are still difficulties in implementing certain provisions of the War Veterans Act. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to restoring the seized rights under the ZUJF, a number of other contents have been opened up, which are also due to the lack of transparency of the part of the actors at national and local level. The law does not give the possibility to obtain the status of a war veteran for all categories of beneficiaries who should obtain such status. On the other hand, it allows undue status to be acquired on the basis of inadequate but accepted criteria, such as work duties. This is precisely the problem where veteran organisations are critical and point out that this area is being thoroughly addressed. Veteran organisations mainly point out the latter: the legal provisions are unclear and create problems in administrative procedures. The problem is different practice or interpretation of entitlements by administrative units that resolve individual applications for recognition of status. In individual cases, the legal provisions refer to the lower internal legal acts of the State authorities, which provide for internal emoluments and their recipients. Some of the legal rights, however, fall only to privileged beneficiaries. Until the last amendment of the War Veterans Act 2015, there were also difficulties in obtaining the status of a society acting in the public interest in the field of war veterans. The competent ministries of home affairs and work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities have interpreted the validity of this status differently and have not given a clear answer. Following the amendment of the War Veterans Act 2015, these problems are no longer present; however, new and even more difficult problems have arisen. In the absence of legally defined clear criteria, the competent Ministry of Defence grants the status of a society in the public interest in the field of war veterans also to companies that do not actually meet the criteria for registration of a veteran society or do not operate throughout Slovenia and are co-financed by the state. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Veterans is unfortunately a partial solution which, by the way, restores the rights taken from the ZUJF; on the other hand, opens up new inequalities in the treatment of war veterans and war invalids. In 1991 we were one army, now veterans; and some have unfortunately become disabled in this war. This is a fact and our obligation to veterans that we must act fairly and equally today in restoring our rights. That's what I stand for as one of the 1991 war veterans. For this reason, I cannot vote on my own behalf today to restore the rights that have been forfeited to us by the ZUJF and leave unresolved rights, which should also belong to the injured colleague. I would also like to see the amendments to the War Veterans Act also resolve the remaining inconsistencies and anomalies that cause dissatisfaction among veteran organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. A few more reviews have happened, so we have reached the last interviewer, Member Marian Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In opening, I must say that I will still support this law, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I greatly appreciate the veterans' wars. I personally think that this law is also just and necessary to ensure to these veterans what was taken from them by the ZUJF. There was a lot of talk today about this ZUJF, anyway. We all know what the conditions were back then. And the reason for the adoption of the ZUJF is also very clear to those who know Slovenian politics and the situation in this country that there was a budget shortage of about a billion and a half dollars so that pensions could be paid monthly, that it could be paid to nurses, doctors, schoolchildren and so on. And if something hadn't happened in this area, then the country would have gone bankrupt. Nobody wanted this, I'm sure, at least anyone who lives in this country, from citizens and citizens. I think that would be the worst solution if any government in this country allowed themselves to take solutions that would bring the country to bankruptcy. And at that time we were very close, and it was brought by the very government of Borut Pahor and the Social Democrats, along with the coalition. Another thing that seems very important to me here is that it is very difficult to expect those who do not have an intimate option to vote for such a law. Today this was clearly expressed, clearly expressed, by the entire coalition, except for the Left, which surprised me, but I am very glad that it has responded positively here and will support this law. Obviously, independent Slovenia is not an intimate option, because if it were you, we would have a clear position that we would help those who have stepped into the defence and sacrificed their lives for this country to solve the problem that has arisen. Of all of you, I would expect you to support this law today without any problem, of course, the government as well. Who said the government and this coalition have no opportunity to make a system law? Who said that? Why don't you put him in who you're waiting for? That something will fall down from above into this House? You didn't do anything, that's the problem, and you're saying we're filing partial legislation. We're investing, of course, because you didn't do anything, nothing, nothing. You're all saying that it's in your interest to solve this problem of war veterans and war invalids and so on and so forth. This coalition, sitting in Parliament, you speak one thing, and you work another and you deceive the Slovenian nation, the Slovenian people. The government also says it won't support it because it's a partial marriage. Representative of the Government, then please tell me when you will introduce a system law that will solve all of what we have heard here today. Tell me this today, with the date when you will do this; and stop fooling and deceiving the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people, do not be a madman of men. I can't listen to it anymore and watch it. Instead of looking for solutions together, helping these groups, we then plead for systemicism. What right are you here to discuss this? But you have a chance. If we didn't have a chance, then I'd say it's justified for you to discuss it this way. But since you have everything in your hands, the coalition can file a system law at any time, we could do so. And if you could spend a billion euros on government officials to raise social assistance and help those who need social assistance. Thank God, it is imperative that they get it, but there are many who do not need it; and by doing so you encourage the work. This is what you do, and then you say that you are righteous, that you are justly leading this country, that you are justly deciding to help vulnerable groups. What kind of justice is that? And to speak continuously of systemicity, because the Slovenian Democratic Party has re tabled this law, must be opposed in every way. And since independent Slovenia is not your intimate option, then everything has to be done to put those who fought for it, even some of them gave their lives into second-class ones. You have the opportunity and you have no excuse that 2013 has come to this situation, you have no excuse, because this has long passed. See what year we are – 2019. And nothing has happened, nothing has happened, nothing has been done, nothing, not the previous government, even this government, seven, eight months, as far as it's in power, nothing that you can convince me here that this marriage is partial and that you can't support it, you can't. This law saves one group, and if you want, you can file the next bill and cover the other two groups, and the story is arranged systematically. There is no problem, but the will must be taken seriously to think that you have an interest in helping people; not to see some quotations read here when someone writes two, three letters to them, and in the end they don’t even know what it says, and some referenda read here. We all know what happened, we all know history, we all know the past, we all know how it happened in Slovenia. You do not have to read this in the National Assembly because every child in the fifth grade of primary school knows this, whether in the fourth or in the third grade. Solutions need to be sought. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party propose solutions for war veterans and we owe it to each other. We don't expose any political parties here, we didn't expose anyone when we introduced this law. This law is not political, this law is substantive, it wants to help these people because they have been deprived of their rights because of the very difficult situation in Slovenia. Who cooked it? Social Democrats and their team that brought this country to the brink of bankruptcy when it was minus 7.8 economic growth. Do you know what that means? When you're one billion and a half at the end of the year to cover these basics so that the country can function. And so please, dear friends, all those who sit in the National Assembly, these parliamentary groups, including the government, start thinking proactively, start working, bring what you think is right, and let it be systemic. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party support every good proposal, we have always supported it, but not to think of us as a fool, but not to have the whole Slovenian public say one thing that you cannot do about it. That's not true. Show that you have everything in your hands, you have the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party everywhere, when it comes to solutions written on the skin of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Let's get this straight. And do not deal with what is not essential for this country, deal with what will lead this country a step further. We have economic growth, but not because of this government's policies, not in the least. We know exactly why we have economic growth because there are favourable economic conditions at the level of Europe. And we have economic growth due to some of our excellent entrepreneurs and craftsmen. If we waited for the country, the question is, where would we be today? What the state has to do with craftsmen, entrepreneurs; I am not talking about a good economic environment. Because in these months, what you have in your hands, you have done absolutely nothing, zero, to make entrepreneurship develop. But you've done this and you're doing it by leaving Slovenia, and you're doing it highly qualified people who should be here to make the economic and economic breakthrough that we need if we want to have a higher added value, if we want the workers to have higher wages and to be higher at the end of the pension and so on and so forth; but you obviously don't understand it. Clearly, the public sector is key to you, and you think the country will survive from it. We do need decent and well-paid, but first we need to put ourselves in a position to figure out who is the one who creates it. And he must have a certain word on how state and public money is shared. And I'm asking you, please, not to say it the way I'm hearing it today. You're talking about our law that it's partial, that you can't support it. Once again, you have all the options, all the options, put in a system law, all the groups you're talking about today, put them under the roof, and this law can be passed within a month and a half. This law that we're proposing is not going to take anything from anyone. We said that 7 million euros should be made available in the budget. We were talking today that someone was talking about 700 million. From where that man fell, I don't know where he fell, from the moon or Mars, that the consequences of this law are €700 million. Where did he get them from? Let someone who has said this in this House come here and explain it to me. If it is ignorance, if it is ignorance, let him say it; not deceive the Slovenian public. And please don't do this, we don't have time in this national council to waste time on such things. Let's be operational, let's be coherent, let's work together, let's solve people's problems. People expect it from us, it doesn't matter who's in which political option, but you already understand that once. And today I am practically all the time in the hall and I have listened to this and I can no longer hear it, why you will not support the marriage; but you all say that you care about these people, that you care about the wars of the disabled and that they mean so much to you and so on. But when this fact has to be proved in practice, then you say, "You know, that's why we can't do it." Money in this corrupt society is as much as you want. Stealing long and wide, in the health system, and also others, the second track, and not explaining what's going on. But 7 million to help these people, isn't it?Oh, my God! What kind of government are you?Oh, my God! Obviously, then, you support corruption in this society, the corrupt actions of those lobbying groups back there, who obviously have power and apparently have some of you brought to the National Assembly. I'm not, because I never let myself do that, so I'm five in the National Assembly because I didn't let anyone bribe me. And if everyone were like that in the National Assembly, it wouldn't be the way it is. Pour yourself some pure wine, whether you sit on the side of the executive branch or on the side of the legislative branch of authority. I'd better not say what's going on in the judicial branch of power. And let's stop dividing ourselves into ours and yours and the first and second classes. Please, let's step in together and once we do, I don't know what kind of thought I'm not going to use a term that nobody's going to like again. Let's work for the people, step together and work for the people, and let's not worry about who the political options are. If it's a good suggestion, let's back him up. This amendment to the War Veterans Act is a good proposal and no one can say that it is not. Don't talk one way, but do the other. And today I will see again how many of you have spoken to them that they are for you to appreciate them, to respect them, to have a good opinion of them, and today will vote in favour of this law. I'll see how long it takes. And, of course, after the vote has passed, I will call and slowly explain myself to the people again. I think this will be necessary, because otherwise, Members of Parliament and Members, you will live well on whatever waves there are without taking responsibility. Each of us in this House has someone who is a veteran of war, each of you, with me who is worth sitting in this Parliament. And what face do we have to say – look, we had a chance, but we were working against, we were voting against helping you. What face? Therefore, I ask you to support this law today at this first reading. It's possible to fix it, it's possible to do what you almost have in mind. The government and the coalition can do almost anything they want because they have everything in their hands. And one more thing, I ask the representatives of the Government to tell me, today, when I'm done or then at the end, when you have your time, of course, we have already already told you, when will you bring into the National Assembly a system law that will cover all of these groups that I am talking about today. I demand that you tell me your schedule, that we can pour ourselves some pure wine, and that there will be some kind of commitment in the background; not only will you think of bringing people around. And it will be four years later and there will be nothing left to save if, of course, this government lasts four years. As it is now done, I doubt the operational capabilities of this government, very personally, I think so. Once again, in today's vote, this bill, which is well-intentioned, is not political, does not have any political colour in it, in the first reading, dear Members and Members, also support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, which gives us the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, Mrs. Breda Božnik has the floor. Here you go. He's quitting. Then he has the floor to propose, Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Sometimes silence says more than a thousand words spoken, somehow so goes the Slovenian proverb; and here silence says much. I had some very short questions that I was expecting short answers to, and I repeat them again, so that you might read them again from the tape and maybe answer them sooner or later. If you do not respond to them, as you say, at the end of November or in half a year, when we re- table this law in the SDS Group and all the other laws in this area that you support today, you will vote against them; and we will submit all these laws because we are confident that you will not be able or able to submit them in the coalition. We will not invest, although they already exist in Lotus Notes, as the SMC Member correctly stated, but look at it, this Member has not yet received information that laws that have ended the failed legislative procedure may be re tabled. To begin with, once again, question number one: Does a war invalid with this law lose something? We're saying no. Second question: Do war invalids, who also have the status of a war veteran, gain anything from this law? We claim that the government is silent. Third question: Has the recent amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, where we have raised a minimum pension, wronged war veterans and their basis for determining the amount of the war supplement? Three very simple short questions, which unfortunately neither the executive branch nor the coalition in this national assembly were able to answer. Let me continue with the SMC Member, who, as a parrot, repeated what 36 of her fellow Members had said in the previous term – This is a partial solution; we are for systemic solutions. But, dear colleagues from SMC, we don't believe you anymore. Based on four or almost five years of experience, speaking in this National Assembly, based on five years of inaction according to your words, we no longer believe you when you talk about systemic solutions because you are a complete bluff. And here the SMC Member speaks – if we adopt this law, we will give new injustices. No, we argue that if we give anything, we will make some inequality, which has always existed, in all areas. There are always some classes, always some censorship, always some nomotechnic expression in laws where we don't make all people the same. Will you accept this law within six months in government and coalition and mediate it to the National Assembly? The answer is – you will not, because you will do the same as the previous term, talk about systemic solutions, but you will not do them. And if anyone already has partial solutions to someone, we have evidence before us – the 2013 War Veterans Act, when, look at it, there was no SDS in power when they made a partial law when you pulled only one third out of the ZUJF, touching war veterans, and brought it back. For two-thirds what? Did you run out of talk about systemicity, or what? You are the ones who have done partial work; we want to destroy this partiality, at least in the field of the status of war veterans, but look at it as a fraction, a similar coalition is against and again full of the mouth of systemicity. In short, I am deeply saddened that the word was about a distinction that is not in our opinion. Instead of all knowing together that even if anything is wrong with this law, we have time or we, especially the executive branch of power. If it bothers you so much that we have not also introduced the novels of the War Disability Act or the novels of the Law on Victims of War Violence, so that you can do so, as former colleague Horvat said. In two days you do this, five articles, three pages write, we can meet, we can postpone the treatment on the parent's working body, because it also exists, honourable Members of the coalition, if you don't know the rules of procedure yet, because you are new faces. This exists, we can wait, we do not have to go with this law to the second treatment immediately to the mother's working body and to the June meeting of the National Assembly, we can wait until the July session; but we do not believe you because you will do nothing. Even more, we do not believe that if we put similar legislation back into the procedure in the SDS Group in six months, you will find those systemic solutions that you are talking about today. In short, let me conclude that I am not disturbing the peace of the coalition which, due to the SDS Group, had to extend the agenda of the May session to this Tuesday, as everyone would probably be on leave. We wanted to present one simple solution, a solution that did not come from me as a proposaler or from one of my fellow Members, this idea and these proposals for a solution came from people coming to our offices. And since not only one person came to my office, more came and so did colleagues from the parliamentary group, we decided that yes, it was not one person, it was about 7,000 people we wanted to listen to and do something about this law. But today, the executive branch of power, along with the coalition, is looking for reasons from five veins why this law is not good. And just to conclude, the distinguished representative of the leadership of the National Assembly, because today it was somehow said that if you, what kind of scoundrels are you in the SDS, because you are proposing laws with financial effects, and on the other hand you have given the Constitutional Court an opinion on the budget balance, I wonder whether the Rules of Procedure allow a group of Members who give the initiative for a constitutional opinion to propose laws with financial implications in the National Assembly. For five years I have been a member of the Rules of Procedure Commission, but I cannot find an article or sentence in the Rules of Procedure that would have prevented us from doing so. We can make laws, but we can especially make laws that, for the first time, have small financial consequences, and secondly, we are correcting the injustices of the two laws adopted by this State Assembly in the past. They once said that it was not a price to pay for the elimination of injustices. Clearly, the price for this coalition is important if it's not to talk about their themes. Unfortunately, there are none of their subjects in this national council. One last sentence. Support this law, bring the other laws and see us at the July session with the system package, if you want to hear it, legislation in the field of assistance to those who have also given their health, not just their time, for what we have today, what we are most proud of – that we have a independent Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I understand that your rhetorical question has been addressed to me, and you've already answered it, so I believe you don't need my explanation. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. He only spoke to Jean-Mahnič, so you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President. I will, of course, support this marriage. It is not the first time that we have invested it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, probably not for the last time; given that the government will not come with some solutions. But maybe there is a law that needs to be proposed where the budget costs €700 million, because 7 is obviously too small for you because you're used to throwing up a lot. But here you have to look at a broader context, a broader picture. We are talking about war veterans, talking about those who contributed to the lion's share in the 1991 war as well, that we today have a independent and independent state of the Republic of Slovenia. It is interesting when you accompany these talks by Prime Minister Marjan Šarc after these celebrations, he says many times that we can love and speak today because some have fought and given their lives in war for Slovenia. It is a pity that the President of the Government is not here today to tell you here lively, that these people have fought, given their lives, one indeed, others have risked them that we can speak Slovenian here today, as he would say, that we can criticize his holiness and his government, as he would say. But I do believe I wouldn't tell you: support this law that is good for veterans. It is said that, on the one hand, we have Prime Minister Marjan Sarca at the celebrations, who promises everything that he makes in the stars; and on the other hand, we have a real picture in Parliament, where his Members do not apply what he says at the celebrations. We have an idea for the public when something has to be said and promised; and we have a result in the National Assembly, when it comes to actually doing something so that what the President of the Government can say can also be put into practice. Of course you don't. Why? Because of this, as I said, this is a broader story, which coincides with or is linked to the intentional destruction and destruction of the Slovenian army, the army which allowed this country to become independent in 1991. Of course, veterans associated with the events at the time are not particularly interested in the left political option, because these veterans are the ones responsible for the collapse of your dream Yugoslavia. And why would we reward them now for breaking up your country where you lived like a kidney in a log? That is why you do not want war veterans to give back what was taken from them when the state budget was needed to be cut; and it was linear. It was necessary for all to be removed so that you could then extend these measures, which you then criticized, during the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, during the time of the government of Mir Cerar, and obviously now in the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, when there is no problem overnight spending to increase by more than a billion. The problem is to find this 7 million euro. These 7 million euro can be found immediately and veterans and veterans would have some of it. But then you automatically give some credit to those who are actually responsible for having an independent state today. That bothers you. On the other hand, you give large amounts of money to veteran organisations, especially those who are politically aspiring to your benefit, to some of you having a celebration together, to cover some accounts, I have already talked about this connection between fighters and Social Democrats. It is said that you are selectively sharing your yes; those who do not support you or politically do not agitate you give nothing to those who do not. And that's why you don't want to give it to everyone, because that would give it to all veterans, it's not only to those who vote for your clients, but also to those who don't vote for your clients. And that's the whole story of why it's going here. And as long as you share the veterans in this way, those who, as Marjan Sarec would say, deserve to be able to criticize his government today, do not want to give, but give millions of euros to Arabs who illegally yell at us across the border.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the vote. I hereby adjourn this agenda item and the 8th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 13.50. (The sitting was suspended at 13.17 and resumed at 13.50.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u94	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 10, 11, 3, 4, 5, 8, 18, 7, 13, 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda. We're moving to the vote. Members of Parliament and Members, please check the voting devices. We are moving on to the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on the Community of Students. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Community of Students is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Veterans. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the War Veterans Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 39. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by setting out the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 21 May 2019. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 1. As a footnote, the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 3. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 3 becomes irrelevant. Mr. Robert Pavšič, on behalf of the Group of Members? [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Miha Kordish, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, chairman. When the Public Finance Balance Act was adopted, quite a few social gains were lost for the working class in that country. One of the lost gains was also the amount of hospital compensation for one who was unable to work because he had become sick, i.e. the amount of this compensation was reduced by 10%. If this was a reduction, this cut was already unjustifiable at the time, so much more so today. The economy has come out of the crisis, the cash registers haven't been as full for quite a while as they are now. And the only correct and appropriate thing is that the amount of the hospital allowance for everyone goes back to the pre-crisis level. The basic law, which we decided to amend in Levica, does so, but does so for only one small category of beneficiaries, specifically various organ donors, blood donors and so on. And we want the level of hospital compensation to return to pre-crisis times for everyone, everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you. Does anyone else have an opinion on behalf of the parliamentary group? If not, I shall open an application assembly on behalf of each individual, i.e. a Member or a Member. The application shall be made. Thank you. We have four applications. The first is Mr. Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The matter is essentially very simple, with our intervention, with this amendment we want to follow the findings of another economic profession, and that is that saving is not worth saving. Savings in the current economic situation are backward. Saving measures are not only pointless, but also harmful to the country in this economic environment. Of course, they are not so harmful to banks, they are most harmful to individuals. Lower than an individual on a food scale, austerity measures are more destructive. I suggest we get away from some old politics. If we say that we are advanced in the right sense of the word, then I explain my voice "for" and I also call on colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament and Members to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you. You have a word, Boštjan Koražija, to explain your voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u99	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Of course, I support the two amendments tabled by the left-wing Group. The fact is that this would bring all the compensations back to the level before the introduction of the ZUJF and would completely abolish the provision of the ZUJF in this article; not just correct them as proposed. I think it's time to stop saving in health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! Today we are not accepting anything completely new with this amendment, but we are returning to the state of rights of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia before the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, which is before 31 May 2012. We return those rights that people, workers, pensioners, parents deserve and belong to us; that is why they invest in the tax system, in health insurance. It's about recognizing workers' rights, as they used to be, to 90 percent compensation for their absence from work. Today we will vote in favour of agreeing that mothers of children in the Republic of Slovenia have an 80% base due to the care of a family member, this is a child, or because of the escorting of a child by a doctor to this mother. On this point, there is a vote today, and I will personally vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the last word, Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The first word that comes to my mind is that this proposal is very nice and very good; the second word that immediately comes to mind is the responsibility of the whole system. In 2014, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance paid EUR 225 million for compensation, and in 2018 it already paid EUR 347 million. The problem here is systemic, why people get so much more sick and why expenses are higher each year. It is necessary to find other solutions, not just firefighters, that will actually eliminate only acute problems. In this regard, and in the light of the fact of demographic movements and the increasing needs of the population, any proposal to increase expenditure on health care should be carefully considered and determined by a large degree of discretion. All the measures we put in place must be geared towards improving the health of the population by providing more quality and secure health services. I do not think that the amendment proposal follows these requirements, and I do not wish to. This is a measure which would result in the fact that we will not be able to allocate these funds to new health services programmes. The financial impact on the cash flow would be very serious. 15 million more than the ten million we have invested in order to shorten the waiting periods from the budget; this, unfortunately, is not going to work now, which is why I certainly cannot and do not support the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you for your explanation of vote, Mr Members. Dear Members, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing Group to the first article; I have already informed you that it is related to Article 3. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the Left Group to Article 1 has not been adopted, I repeat what I have already said twice, the amendment to Article 3 has become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers, a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 3. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the summary procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 22 May 2019, the amendment of Article 10 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 67 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I also note that we have ended the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 10 of the bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted in the second reading would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 15 of the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 15 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act is not adopted. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the bill amending the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 6. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 15. On the proposal of a law on the ratification of the agreement on air transport between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the proposal of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the employment of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia and the Protocol on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the employment of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated as a competent mother body by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which informed us in writing. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have your word, mag. Branislav Rajić, on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! In recent years, the strengthening of the Slovenian economy has also increased the need for employers to work properly, which has also been reflected in the number of new jobs of foreign labour in our country. We are therefore convinced that, given the situation in the Slovenian labour market, the country must provide sufficient skilled labour for its normal functioning. The Republic of Slovenia also committed several years ago to concluding bilateral agreements on the employment of citizens of the Western Balkans countries in Slovenia with a view to strengthening Slovenia's position and role in the Western Balkans. We support this decision in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, because we are convinced that Slovenia can proactively plan to provide long-term labour needs according to the needs of the Slovenian economy and the current situation in our labour market by concluding such agreements. From the Western Balkans, more than 90% of all migrant workers come to the Slovenian labour market, so we are particularly committed to concluding bilateral agreements with countries in the region. At the same time, in the SMC Group, we are working to ensure that migrant workers are protected in the same way as domestic workers. And the new employment system, which is being brought forward by the agreement under consideration between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will significantly improve the way in which migrant workers are employed in Slovenia, as it will contribute to greater legal certainty for migrant workers because it will prevent the exploitation of workers from the Republic of Serbia and will stop the disputed practices of those employers who have employed Serbian citizens through various intermediaries, often at the expense of the reduced scope of their basic labour rights. In addition, the implementation of the said Agreement will change employment procedures, simplify and accelerate the strengthening of the economies of both countries while ensuring adequate legal security for migrant workers. We will therefore unanimously support the proposal for a law on the ratification of this Agreement in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the word on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! This agreement is designed in the interests of employers and capital, not in the interest of Serbian or Slovenian workers, and we therefore oppose it in Levica. Several provisions of this Agreement place foreign workers in a subordinate position in relation to the employer and, clearly, an unequal position in relation to other Slovenian workers, if that is what you wish to call them. This agreement, like the agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, provides for a one-year commitment of the worker to the employer. This means social dumping and infringements of workers' rights, since it allows employers to force foreign workers to work under conditions that workers with regulated personal permission or citizenship of Slovenia could easily refuse. Bosnian and now Serbian workers will be in a worse position than other foreign workers under this agreement. The current regulation allows foreign workers to switch employers at any time during the first two years of working in Slovenia. The only legal condition foreign workers have to meet in order to obtain a personal permit after two years is that they are employed for 20 months for a period of two years. However, these workers may, within one month of finding that the conditions of work are not as promised, apply for the replacement of the employer. It was decided that the workers of Serbia must be tied to one employer in the first year and that, otherwise, their work permit should be withdrawn or tied to another employer for one year, creating very good conditions for the exploitation of workers who are dependent on the employer and thus in a highly subordinate situation. This subjection prevents workers from being able to deal effectively with violations and exploitation; and that is not enough. What this means in practice are violations and exploitation of workers from Bosnia and Herzegovina who worked in Slovenia on the basis of a very similar or sisterly agreement. This agreement will also lead to the subordination and exploitation of foreign workers in the form of non-payment of salaries, unpaid social security contributions, unpaid and excessive overtime, irregular working hours, termination of the employment contract and the like. If we conclude such agreements on the basis of the experience of the agreement with Bosnia, it would be appropriate to regulate the relationship between the employer and the worker in an equal manner or in a manner consistent with the conditions and rights enjoyed by workers who are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. In Levica, we will consider supporting such agreements only when they serve the interests of workers, ours or others, does not matter. If the employer has the opportunity to change workers, so should workers; if the country needs people, it should also treat them as such, it is said that they are human. Through this agreement, a mechanism for exploitation is simply established, and this is clearly demonstrated by the conceptual dissonance of the interpretation of this law. On the one hand, the government argues that a migrant worker after one year will no longer be bound to one employer and will be able to find a better job on better terms and for higher pay so that he can set up a company and so on. In short, he will be able to stay in Slovenia and create a decent life. On the other hand, you can read a few lines further that all migrant workers employed in accordance with this Agreement must voluntarily return to their country of origin; that this is the so-called concept of circular migration. Not too happy a name for a concept that tells that Serbian citizens are welcome only when Slovenian capital needs them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And you have the floor, Mr Vojko Starović, on behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye, everybody! An agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the employment of Serbian citizens has been concluded with us in good faith to strengthen existing good cooperation between the countries. As the Government of the Republic of Slovenia emphasises, the agreement is based on a carefully planned migration policy and provides an appropriate basis for regulating the legitimate employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in our country. The employment agreement of Serbian workers responds to the needs of the Slovenian economy in order to ensure adequate labour for its functioning. As already found in state statistics in January this year, the proportion of people working in Slovenia is increasing from month to month. This is still a reflection of a good and stimulating economic environment on domestic soil. In October last year, nearly 10% of foreign workers were employed, about 87,000 700 workers. The most foreign workers come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, followed by citizens of Serbia, Croatia, Kosovo and Northern Macedonia. According to Sursa, compared to October 2017, the number of foreigners among working persons increased by 19.2 % or around 14 000 100 workers. This information speaks eloquently of the need for the Slovenian economy for foreign workers, especially in the sector of construction in which foreign workers are leading, in processing activities, transport and storage. Last October, some less than 23,000 foreign workers were employed in construction. And in order to provide sufficient labour for the domestic economy, the agreement we are considering today has emerged on the basis of good experience with the agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the first place, this allows the employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be easier and faster. The additional advantages offered by the agreement to the citizens of Serbia are greater legal protection, as migrant workers are entitled to equal treatment with Slovenian citizens. This means that foreign workers can freely join us and join the organisation representing workers or employers, have the right to education and vocational training, are included in the social insurance system and so on. Labour organisations can also help foreign workers if employers violate their rights. The Agreement also clearly states in Article 6 that the competent authority and the competent institution, namely the Ministry of Labour and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, are obliged to prepare information on the general living conditions, conditions of entry and residence and information on the rights and duties of migrant workers in the country of employment. The resulting agreement is the subject of social dialogue, enables the exchange of information between competent authorities and introduces appropriate control mechanisms by the Labour Inspectorate, Furs and so on. In the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek, we are convinced that the proposal for an agreement is prepared in good faith that it allows workers to obtain a permit for a further three years, with the migrant worker being employed for the first year of employment by the employer who has obtained a permit for it. We are aware, however, that the one-year commitment of workers to one employer also entails a certain risk and abuse by employers. We have been able to read several times about the pressures of foreign workers in our country, whose employers are violating labour rights, offering very poor working conditions, not paying overtime, paying poor wages and so on. We just can't let that happen. Legal protection instruments for foreign workers should be balanced and workers should not be exposed to guilt. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we will support the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Protocol on the implementation of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I note that we have not received any amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 17. The Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Ireland, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I would like to ask the Secretary of State of the Method of Dragonjo for an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The European Stability Mechanism was set up in 2012 to permanently protect financial stability in the euro area. The Treaty of Establishment was ratified and became part of our legal order in 2012. The draft law contains a solution whereby future amendments to the Annexes to this Agreement, Annexes 1 and 2 of the founding Treaty may be ratified by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 75 of the Law on Foreign Affairs. The implementation of this Treaty has been subject to certain reservations, particularly given that amendments to Annexes 1 and 2 are decided by the Board of Governors of the European Stability Mechanism; the International Treaty itself does not provide that the decisions of the Board of Governors are ratified by the States parties to this Treaty. In order to harmonise the provisions of the Treaties and the internal legal order in the Republic of Slovenia concerning the implementation of this Treaty, it is proposed to amend the Law on the ratification of the Treaty, which will allow for the modification of Annexes 1 and 2 by a decision of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-28-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I note that the Committee on Foreign Policy, as the national working body of the assembly, has reported in writing to the Council. There are no applications for presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time we have voted. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. Goodbye!
