ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ljudmila Novak until 11 p.m., Blaž Pavlin from 12 p.m. to 18 p.m., Iva Dimic from 15 p.m. to 19 p.m., Luka Mesec to 11 p.m., Igor Zorčič from 16 p.m., Darij Krajčič to 17 p.m., Franc Trček, Željko Cigler to 12.30, Violet Tomić to 11 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko from 14 p.m., Nada Brinovšek from 14 p.m., Carmen Furman from 14 p.m. Ah, plus, Dean Jedhan will be away by 11:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 18. DESCRIPTION OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ORIGIN FOR THE DETERMINATION OF THE POLITICAL RESPONSES OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COMPETITION OF THE GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS OF THE GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS OF THE BANK, D. D. D., (READING: DUTB) IN RELATING TO THE TRANSFER, MANAGEMENT AND SALE OF BANK OR OTHER GOVERNMENTS, OTHER MEASURES FROM THEIR ACCORDANCE AND THE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY, On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 89 Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat submitted a request for parliamentary investigation to the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u2	Good morning, good day to you all! Why does New Slovenia propose to set up a parliamentary investigation into the DUTB or the bad bank? First the general framework. For the second time in Slovenia alone, the taxpayers recapitalised banks in 2013, this time the transfer value or financial contribution was substantial, multi-billion dollars, and in return as a result of this bank hole was a political decision to set up a so-called bad bank, the Company for Bank Claims Management, where all bad claims from state banks are transferred. We had 4 banks, Nova Ljubljanska banka, DUTB, Abanka and then Probanka and Factor banka. It is said that these bad claims, bad loans are transferred to the management of a bad bank and then attempted to optimize them on a bad bank and then successfully sell them further. This legislative decision or law was adopted in the National Assembly on 23 October 2012. Then, in March 2013, the Bank's Claims Management Company, a bad bank, was formed. The key task of DUTB, according to the law, is to help restructure banks of systemic importance that have been in severe solvency and liquidity problems. Well, that's why we set up a bad bank. And some numbers we're talking about. The nominal value of the claims transferred from the New Ljubljana Bank amounted to EUR 2.28 billion, the nominal value of the claims transferred from the NKBM amounted to EUR 1.22 billion, totalling EUR 3.5 billion. The DUTB took over claims at the end of 2014 from the Bank and the Bank of Celje. DUTB therefore also purchased Probank and Factor Bank’s claims after the Government’s decision. Now, attention is drawn to the fact that the total gross value of the bad claims transferred to the DUTB amounted to EUR 4.9 billion. 4.9 billion euros. This amount is managed by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, with these claims, at this amount. The transfer value itself was €1.5 million. What are we witnessing from the establishment of the DUTB? Every day we witness, almost daily, an affair, an affair at a bad bank, an affair regarding bank claims management, real estate, regular business, with companies sent to bankruptcy by the DUTB, from the beginning, from the beginning, from the creation onward, from 2013 onwards. Four key reasons why we decided to investigate why it is right for the National Assembly to investigate the Bank's Claims Management Society. This was a political decision; we have taken this decision in this House. As a congregation, the government was the one who regularly supervises and sets up key personnel at the DUMB. First reason. There is a suspicion that good claims, claims that were by no means a bad bank, were transferred to DUTB 2013, 2014 and 2015. The result of this decision was quite a few bankruptcys of good companies. Let me give you an example, an example of Autotechne, which was then sold at a good price. Or an example of one communication company that once came from a lobbyist of another company wishing to arrange the sale of this company, at a good price, of course, that the owner would earn well. The owner, of course, did not agree to this because he wanted to continue to be the owner of this communication company. The same person then got a job as CEO at a bad bank a few months later. One of his first assignments – do you know what it was? It was DUTB who sent this communications company to bankruptcy. He went to bankruptcy and they were looking for DUTB and then new buyers. In the end, it was only after years of torture and suffering that the Constitutional Court decided that this company was not worthy of bankruptcy. It wasn't worth going to DUTB. Who is responsible here, ladies and gentlemen? In this case, for example, we need to investigate. Second reason. Claims and real estate management and regular business. Real estate, we're still witnessing the unresolved Logatec affair these days, KLI Logatec. From the story, when DUTB was looking for a new owner, he sold this land to an intermediary for EUR 40 per square metre. At what price did this broker then sell the land to the final buyer? 90 Euros! The earnings per square metre were only nine minutes from the signing of one contract and the other, 50 euros. Is that fair? Is this a normal business in this country? No, that's why we need to investigate the operation of a bad bank. The decision of the Government in 2016 to join the DUTB Factor and Probank also had financial implications, €50 million. But more than the financial consequences of this story were something else, namely, that by doing this at the DUTB, at the bad bank, we also got those same staff that were previously employed at the Factor Bank and Probank. These same people were just transferred to other jobs to a bad bank. These same people who gave bad loans may have dug a bank hole in the context of the regular operation of the Factor Bank and Probank. On regular business, how are bad claims valued, how are internal audits conducted, who values them? We demand answers from the bad bank as to how the evaluations are conducted, how the controls are conducted and who are the key decision makers, who are the key people in charge. The situation at the bad bank, the mutual situation of the employees. In those days, the President of the Government received a letter from the disappointed employees, so to speak, the union, that the situation was impossible and unworkable. But, look, they manage 5 billion euros of claims and there's such a disagreement that we're witnessing anonymouss, events of mutual misunderstandings. Do you remember 2014/2015, when the key affair was in the bad wage bank? From that period, there have been videos of a Slovenian media publishing how the DUB board of directors is negotiating how to bypass legislation – be careful how to bypass legislation – in order to raise wages in order to justify EUR 25 000 a high salary. If they were considering how to bypass legislation on salaries, which is very controversial, how it must hurt when they talk to each other, how to bypass legislation so that the original original debtors could become final owners. And that's the third key reason. Because this is happening to us, the indications are that the original original debtors, who have transferred the claims to a bad bank, are becoming final owners, back owners of these companies or those claims, which is not in accordance with the law. I'll tell you the case. Last time I tried to tell the Prime Minister. In Slovenia, we have a company that was in charge of about 100 million euros, and nothing came back. The claims were transferred to a bad bank. At the bad bank they decided to sell these claims, from this company, along with four other companies – this is the package, you know, Elan, ACH, and Polzela Adria – without knowing whether suppliers for other companies might have had better starting points, offered better conditions, more money. Because it was the decision of some to sell it in a package. Why? In order to cover, crucially, this debtor, owed EUR 100 million. And look at it, some American fund bought these claims, the transfer value itself from the New Ljubljana Bank to the DUTB was about 40%, with a discount of, of course, 40% discount. Nice. Then DUTB sold this off for about 20% of the discount, and then came some Russian fund that bought these claims from this US fund. Here again comes a well-known Russian bank, which offers some Slovenian company, which brings together the same owners who previously owned this company a few million euros of money to buy back this company and are again owners. This is happening to us. They made a lot of money in the middle. Cheap ones have thus come back to their company, which they had exhausted before. And we taxpayers will continue to rehabilitate the banking system, of course if we allow it. As a result, one of the tasks of this commission of inquiry is to prevent any future lumparia. For it is the same people, the same criminals, who only sway from day to day or from year to year in the same positions. However, the fourth important reason for the establishment of this commission of inquiry is whether money through foreign funds established in tax havens comes back to Slovenia and through the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, bad banks, buy claims. That's a key question. Otherwise, I cannot argue that these funds are done differently when, at the functions of managing these companies they bought, they leave the same people who sent companies into compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and so incurred them. Regarding money that has gone from Slovenia during the transition period or in the last 40 years into tax havens, there are indications that through a bad bank it is returning to the Republic of Slovenia and buying property cheaply. These are four key reasons. The work of the Commission of Inquiry will start on 6 February 2009. Why this date? In view of the fact that discussions have continued since this cut-off date, discussions within the public space are needed to establish a bad bank. It could be the cut-off date itself setting up a bad bank, but that wouldn't be thorough enough. The Court of Auditors has also revised the functioning of a bad bank since 2011, even though it has not been established at the time. At that time, first calls were also made by the European Commission to set up a special bank dealing with bad claims. The key final purpose of the parliamentary investigation is therefore to answer the question whether the regulatory arrangements and actual decision-making with an impact on the functioning of the DUTB, which was established solely to transfer bad claims from Slovenian banks as one of the key elements of the resolution of the situation in the Slovenian banking system, open up systemic risks to public funds and consequently the entire financial system of the Republic of Slovenia. I am pleased, fellow Members and colleagues, with the support of all parliamentary groups, 89 Members and Members of Parliament signed you under this request, which happened for the first time in the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, I believe in this sincere purpose to investigate the functioning of the Bank's Claims Management Company, to punish irregularities, to punish people with criminal and indemnity responses. These events at the bad bank didn't happen to us yesterday, they happen to us today; things happen daily, bad bank works daily. Therefore, another final call, not only to Members and Members of Parliament, but to all viewers and viewers accompanying the work of Members: if anyone knows anything about the functioning of a bad bank, is facing irregularities, I invite him to pass on information to bear witness to these events. This will be very helpful to the Commission of Inquiry when it faces problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u4	Good morning, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, good morning! In the last term of the National Assembly, the parliamentary commissions of inquiry have certainly gained credibility. The Logari Commission and some others have certainly done exceptional work. Surely the Slovenian Parliament does not hold those rivers, the Establishment Commission, and in this way you will cover up all the problems. In both Parliament and Slovenia, the parliamentary investigative commissions have made significant moves, gathered a lot of documentation in the areas they have investigated, and now the law enforcement authorities are on the move. The positive feature of parliamentary investigative commissions is that they have the opportunity to collect a huge amount of evidence. At times, then, someone is unhappy and unhappy because nothing happens after all these stories. Sometimes someone in the field tells us, "We have heard what has been said on the parliamentary commission of inquiry, there is written evidence, things are on the platter, why do certain people not answer for their sidelines?" Here it must be made clear that this is the duty of law enforcement, prosecution, the judiciary, including the police. They are the ones who, at the final stage, must punish criminals and those who worked contrary to the laws and some example of a good master. We're still waiting for these things. This is one of the most important things that awaits Slovenia — that they will also be responsible for their actions, in short, to establish that key principle of righteousness. That's what we're waiting for. Why are parliamentary investigative commissions usually much more successful and effective than conventional committees and commissions in Parliament? My guess is for two reasons. Because there is usually no classical political fight within these committees and because this Commission has a very clear common objective. This is what these parliamentary investigative commissions are doing particularly effectively, so that all the Members of this committee, i.e. all the members of this committee, together, are fighting together for a goal that is set in advance. The last economic crisis has certainly exposed Slovenia's agreed economy, in particular banks that were domestically owned because they operated in an agreed manner, not on principles known in the Western world. A bad bank was set up to clean up this failing banking system. The idea was certainly meaningful in the beginning. It was not a bad idea to transfer some bad, rotten things to a society that deals specifically with these things, because, on the other hand, the banks are able to carry out their business normally and smoothly, but unfortunately, there have been more and more recent instances that suggest that the idea of a bad bank has also been born. The last such case is the question of land in Logatz, for example. The government agreed to invest the Japanese company Sumitomo in Slovenia, for which the country paid EUR 4.8 million in subsidies. The government was informed that a Japanese company would invest on the land of a bad bank in Logatec, as on 12 September the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy had already revealed that the Japanese were coming to Logatec. However, one day before that, on 11 September 2017, a bad bank for a good 51,000 square metres of land in Logatco sold to the company Council RE, for which Council RE paid a good EUR 2 million or around EUR 40 per square meter. But five days later, Council RE sold 33,000 square metres of land to a Japanese company, and the price was 3 million euros, about 90 euros per square meter. So more than once, it's a higher price. This, of course, raises the question why the bad land bank did not sell directly to the Japanese investor, but allowed some interface, an intermediary with more than once the land price at the expense of an unwise or perhaps even deliberate decision of a bad bank, to earn the right wealth. We taxpayers have been so specifically injured for 1.7 million euros. If we look at the next thing, ACH. Several media, such as the Under-Line portal, reported on the unusual business of DUTB with claims to the holding company ACH. In March 2015, Bank of America Merrill Lynch was reselled by the US Bank of America for around EUR 105 million worth of claims to ACH. The US bank bought the claims with a discount, which is a big discount. According to informal information, this discount is estimated at EUR 20 million. In the ACH, according to their own statements, the bad bank should be constantly warned not to sell these claims because they are supposed to repay the entire debt themselves. However, it is interesting that after the sale of the claim, ACH leased a loan to VTB and repaid the entire claim to that US bank. As a result, the taxpayers again lost an estimated EUR 20 million as much as DUTB’s sale of ACH’s claims to the US bank. Some suggested that the US bank claims were actually purchased by ACH itself. Since it bought them with a discount, it paid less for them than if the bad bank were to pay off the entire EUR 105 million in debt directly. Of course, such conduct was denied in ACH. They said that bad banks had sent a written invitation to the US bank before selling these claims not to sell the claim because they were supposed to pay it in full themselves. But you won't believe that there's a very interesting thing here, and then they didn't want to send copies of this letter to ACH. Interesting. A number of such interesting issues also occurred in 2015 when DUTB launched a tender for the sale of up to 670 million claims to 20 different companies and business groups with more than 7,000 employees. Now, listen to this, for 670 million claims, the deadline for submitting bids was bad for two weeks. In these operations, DUTB has never disclosed the number of tenders received and the price paid for each claim. And more importantly, he never checked the origin of the money to buy, whether these companies were buying mail containers or any other suspicious entities. Many companies, Members, have also reminded us of the very dubious practices of DUB with various external operators who have received fabulous, more than ten thousand euros worth of contracts, so that they have come to businesses and have practically told these companies what they themselves already knew. One of these things happened in the Jurassics. These things were widely reported on how to step into the company by all-powerful big money advisors and then sell them a fog. In short, today's debate will most likely highlight a number of bad cases, such as DUTB's bad practice, and therefore we certainly agree in New Slovenia with those who claim that a bad bank or DUTB is trying to use it for the third phase of acceptance in Slovenia. Here we use the term "acceptance" on purpose, which is weak, unlike the other, privatisation, because we understand privatisation in principle as something positive, which means finding responsible and good owners that can be domestic, can be workers, but can also be some external investors. On the other hand, we have acceptance, which is something bad, which, in the end, most often means exhaustion and destruction of the company. If the first phase of acceptance started in the 1990s with so-called certificates, when some took advantage of the ignorance of many citizens and thus came to a large amount of property unjustifiably, then also later mismanagement, if then the second phase of acceptance with these managers' buyouts continued during the period of the merger, when managers without their own resources tried to buy businesses with the money of this company, then today through DUTB we arrive at the third stage of acceptance, that is to say, with various discounts, with sales, sales of various claims to a number of companies again creating a new basis that some in a strange, subtle way will arrive at a huge sum of money, and this is unjustifiable. It is the duty of the National Assembly and of us Members to stop and stop this third phase of acceptance, as far as possible. As long as the matter is still running, there's still something we can do, the longer we delay, the less we can do. This very investigative commission, which will deal with all these irregularities of the DUB, we see in New Slovenia as a tool to stop this third phase of acceptance, to look in some ways very detail at these boys who are going under the fingers and the public all the time, also reminds citizens of these things that in these transactions we should not look away from people who are running the DUB and who are managing this business, we need to keep looking at the bad practices that we have witnessed so far, not to be repeated in the future. This seems to me to be an important element that this commission of inquiry brings. Another important element is that I believe that this Commission of Inquiry will also gather a large number of evidence that will also be useful to law enforcement authorities to act against those who have caused us all taxpayers millions of dollars in damage to the business of the DUTB. However, we are pleased in New Slovenia that there has been virtually unanimous support for this investigative commission, which is rare. This time, and this gives us in a way with optimism that we will do everything, even send our good Members and Members to this investigative committee to take a bite at work and to get to the bottom of this term. Happy investigative committee and those who will take part in it! Be strong and unwavering, for surely a number of pressures will follow. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u6	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Assembly! Members of the SAB Party have also supported the establishment of a parliamentary commission to do so as initiators of the investigation into the operation of the Bank Claims Management Company. Before I explain why, first something about the name or nickname of the Banks Claims Management Company. First of all, why do we call the Bank's Claims Management Company a bad bank? That's what we call it because our bad bank, NLB, New KBM and others, has taken over the business in which these banks, let's say, have been counted. The Bad Bank has taken over their worst loans and has taken over loans which banks themselves are not supposed to receive back and which have threatened the existence of banks and thus the existence of our economy and the sovereignty of our country. But a bad bank needs to make a good deal out of this bad business. That's her purpose. Our bad bank wasn't set up to be bad. On the contrary. It was set up to be better than the banks we were solving in the crisis in order to save our economy, our pensions, our salaries and our sovereignty. It was set up to make a good business for the country and for us citizens in the long run from poor banking transactions that could eventually bury the country in the crisis. We therefore have a weak bank to reward, after the end of our operations, the country's proper response to that deep crisis. It is true that the exceptional economic growth that we have right now continuously since the government of Alenka Bratušek is, of course, a good and important reward for the decisions made at that time. As a result of economic growth, the state budget is richer and Slovenia can continue to be a social state. However, it is right that our investment at that time, our common denial, also returns from the funds we have invested in a bad bank. The bad bank must therefore indeed be better than the banks and must indeed elevate with our money the bad business taken over and with our money the financed operation of the bad bank. It is not easy to achieve this mission, of course, but the objective of the bad bank is clear and in the SAB Party we are convinced that its leadership must always be able to explain and prove to everyone that they have worked and are still working effectively and exclusively in the interests of the country. If we have given money to save banks, we must at least get it back and put it into health care, pensions and the welfare of the Slovenians. An investigation into the operation of the so-called bad bank is therefore in the public interest. It is right to determine whether or not a team at the Bank Claims Management Company has taken over bad business properly and if not, we are doing the right thing. We will therefore support the establishment of an investigative commission in the SAB to identify abuses and mismanagement in a bad bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are setting up an investigative commission with a long name, which we can also call the DUTB Commission of Inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry will identify the responsibility of the holders of public functions in DUTB at Banka Slovenije, which approved the transfer of funds to DUTB, the Government as the DUTB Assembly and the management committees of DUTB. In accordance with Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, a parliamentary investigation shall be carried out in matters of public interest in order to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, for amending legislation in a particular field and for other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction. The purpose and purpose of the parliamentary investigation is, therefore, to identify and explore the actual state of play in matters of public interest. We certainly believe that the DUTB management investigation, which managed more than a billion and a half resources, is now still worth €886 million. The Republic of Slovenia is the founder of DUTB and its company is 100 % owned. The DUTB management funds are public and the debt of DUTB affects the debt of the state sector. However, weaknesses in the DUTB in the past have a negative impact on the balance of the sector of the state. This also calls for special attention to the DUTB from the point of view of governance of the state's public finances. With regard to the DUTB role, it must be said that it was established to assist in the restructuring of banks of systemic importance in difficulty. Following the transfer of claims to the DUTB, the role of the DUTB is to ensure the maximum possible return for the State and taxpayers. It is also the task of the DUTB to repay the State guarantee bonds issued as a payment for the transferred assets and to generate the required return on the initial paid capital by the Republic of Slovenia. The DUTB mission is based on the law, the regulation implementing measures to strengthen the stability of banks adopted by the DUTB Guidelines, the DUTB Strategy and the Statute. The DUTB is thus supposed to manage the assets acquired under the rules of the business sector and the highest ethical standards of management. In the light of all the cases of broadcasting we see in the media, there is doubt as to whether the highest return will be provided for the country. Therefore, it is necessary to determine which were the public entities that acted contrary to the objectives of the recovery of the maximum possible amount for us, taxpayers. The Parliamentary Commission is an instrument for finding responsibility for public function holders, and its role is therefore clear. We certainly expect the law enforcement authorities to play their part and investigate all alleged cases of damage to state property, including through the work of our parliamentary investigation. The role of DUTB remains important. It also has an important part of its assets and claims. DUTB was expected to sell all its assets by the end of 2022, but the Government could also propose to the DUTB Assembly that the DUTB should sell more than 75 % of its commitments. The surplus of this property is expected to pass on to SDH on the basis of the existing law, and in our view this money could go to the demographic fund because pensioners have also renounced banks in times of crisis. For all we have said in the Desus Group, we support the investigation of the DUTB parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u10	Good day to you all, Mr. Vice President, all others present! The Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks adopted on 23 October 2012 is governed by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or so-called DUTB. The objectives of the law include the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks by ensuring the cost-effective use of budget resources and their recovery. DUTB operates transparently, economically, efficiently and successfully. The DUTB shall ensure the transparency of business by documenting all decision-making and legal transactions in such a way as to enable their reconstruction. The Bank operates economically if the resources used by DUTB to carry out its activities were obtained in the appropriate quantity, quality, at the right time and at the best price. DUTB is effective if the best relationship between the cartridges used and the effects achieved has been achieved. The DUTB shall act successfully if it has achieved the objectives set in advance. From the guidelines for action with 14. 12. 2018 is their mission, which is to operate according to the rules of the financial profession and the highest ethical standards of management. The assets shall be managed in such a way as to enable disposal at the best possible price. The Government shall appoint non-executive directors of the DURB Management Board and non-executive directors shall appoint executive directors. That is how the Government practically appoints the entire seven-member DUDB Management Board. The government, through the Ministry of Finance, is overseeing the operation of the bank, and the government is also adopting guidelines in which the criteria for determining the cost-effectiveness, efficiency and performance of the bank are met. The government has such complete control of the DUDB, so it should also take full responsibility for their affairs. The only, I stress, is that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is the only independent supervisory authority in this case. This is the responsibility of carrying out an audit of the regularity and prudence of the operations of the DUTB and the companies in which the DUTB has a directly or indirectly dominant share of voting rights. The Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion on the regularity of the operations of the DUTB for 2014 and 2015; the operation of the DUTB in 2014 and 2015 is ineffective and inefficient. The communication showed no evidence of very burdensome word links from the communication, including: it did not ensure the transparency of the procedures; it did not deal with sufficient due diligence; it did not manage all risks; it did not sufficiently identify the costs of financing and management; it did not obtain sufficient information; it did not conclude all the necessary legal acts with banks; it did not provide for the timely acceptance of the full file; it did not have the full list of contracts; it did not obtain the consent of the assembly; it did not adopt a plan for the sale of assets; it did not publish on its website; it did not specify the procedures for the sale of claims and equity shares; it did not adopt decisions solely on the basis of oral reports and proposals; it did not correct the image of the legal adviser before the provision of services and the rule; it did not adopt the decision on the sale procedure by the administrative or investment committee that did not take the procedure into account the recasting of the contract; it did not take place; it did not verify the appropriateness of the non-accounting of the invoices for financial advisor; it; it; it did not take place; it did not take place; it did not take place; it was not take place; it did not take place; it was not take part to the company; it was not take part to the company; it was not take place; it was not take part to deliver the decision on behalf of the company; it did not take part to pay the decision on behalf of the company; it did not take part to paying it; it was not take part to pay it; it; it was not take part to the company; it not take part to deliver on the company; it did not take part to deliver on the decision on its own or through the decision on its own account of the decision to deliver on behalf of the decision on the company before the decision on behalf of the decision to delivering it; it; it; it; it; it; it; it; it; it did not take part to deliver on the Commission it; it; it did not take part to deliver on the Commission it; it; it not take part to deliver on its own account of the decision on its own account of the decision on the Commission it on the decision to deliver on behalf of the company; it did not take part of the Commission it was it did not take part of the decision on the These are all statements from the Court of Auditors' report. DUTB entered into an asset management agreement with New Ljubljana Bank and Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor, taking over the costs that banks should bear in 2014 of EUR 1 million. In order to determine whether there are any real and legal errors on the acquisition of property and to enforce rights in the three legal entities, the DUTB shall order the execution of prudential legal checks to be carried out on credit documents. In October 2014, the Ministry of Finance informed the Commission about their practical implementation and the inadequacy of the rules for the exercise of its rights, but continued to order careful legal checks and spent EUR 327 000 on this. Which were the three lawyers' offices, I wonder. Of course it's a business secret. During the sale of the portfolio, DUTB did not in advance identify the basic elements of the sales procedure and did not provide the criteria for selecting tenderers and in public publications to the tenderers with complete information. The invitation to tender for multiple claims was published after the sale had already been identified as portfolio and subsequently changed the decision on the sale process. DUTB did not ensure the highest possible competition between tenderers and did not ensure equal treatment of tenderers. It also affected the sales price achieved by the way the sales process was managed. In the course of the sales process, there was time constraints and suppliers did not have sufficient time to prepare quality offers and there was no evidence of legal review of the draft sales contract. Under the general terms of the sale, it laid down the terms of the sale by which it intended to prevent the buyer from selling the claim further to third parties or the debtors or related persons from repurchasing the claim, which it did not provide for in that sale. In 2015, DUTB set up a dedicated company DUP1 and DUP2, a company which has set up a company to avoid legal restrictions through a law firm. In the contract with DUTB, it did not determine the content of the services and did not verify the specifications for the invoices received. All materials related to this project have not been addressed by the competent committees and have not decided to amend or terminate this project by the end of 2015, even though the DUTB did not implement it. Who is this law firm, I wonder. During 2014 and 2015, DUTB violated the provisions of the Public Procurement Act totalling EUR 881 000 880 in the procurement of external service providers. The DUTB has concluded legal advice contracts with legal firms, although they were chosen only for the purpose of carrying out careful legal checks following the procurement procedure, while the value of legal advice services exceeded the value of prudent legal checks. With which law firms, I wonder. It's business secret again. The DUTB allowed the law firm to increase the price of services due to the expiry of the contract before the end of the works. Which company, I wonder. Two employees who had lost their working relationship with the DUTB in the third quarter of 2018 received, at least the right source, an amount of EUR 42 000 492 gross. At its meeting, the Government adopted a response to the Court of Auditors’ conclusion on the revision of the DUDB procedures. The government has distanced itself from the report, saying: “The audit found certain irregularities, inefficiency and inefficiencies.” So the government disagrees with the audit report. However, attention, the audit report The Terms and Conditions of Business of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims in 2014 and 2015 has a total of 426 pages. Since I'm running out of time, I can't tell. I will say so, in the SNS we feel that the DUTB has not been operating and is not operating in accordance with the objectives of the law, so it is right to conduct a parliamentary inquiry. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dr Ange Logar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you, Chairman. The Commission of Inquiry on Bad Bank or Bank Claims Management is a logical consequence of the Commission of Inquiry on Abuses in the Slovenian Banking System. As my predecessors have already described, crime has taken place in companies first, then crime has taken place in banks, and we now very rightly believe that crime has taken place in the so-called bad bank since 2013 and 2014. Let me remind you that, under the original law, a bad bank has been envisaged for a period of 5 years, which means that at the end of 2017, the government of Alenka Bratušek has extended the period of operation of the bad bank for a further 5 years, which means that the term of this institution will expire at the same time as the term of this House expires, until the end of its work. Maybe just to refresh what the DUTB strategy says. On page 1, I quote: “All activities of the DUTB are aimed at adding value to the Republic of Slovenia and its taxpayers. This added value includes not only the achievement of financial objectives, as set out by the ZUKSB and the DUTB Guidelines, but also the indirect positive impacts of strengthening the economic situation in Slovenia through successful restructuring and improvements in corporate governance and strengthening the knowledge base on the management of bad claims." In short, the very positive goals themselves, but somehow this is not in line with the fact that we are today establishing an investigative commission in the National Assembly on the operation of a bad bank. In short, the vision is one thing, the purpose is one thing, the performance is obviously something else. I have heard earlier that the bad bank has taken over all the bad claims arising from the Slovenian banking system, I repeat, many of them due to the criminal acts of bankers and those associated with them. Don't hold it. If that were true, then a lot of business would have been done differently than it was at a bad bank. For example, in a specific case, KB1909 met all the conditions for transferring from the New Ljubljana Bank to a bad bank, but it does not consider that the members of the commission of inquiry in banking and the Court of Auditors are not aware why this transfer was not carried out. But I'll tell you, you probably know that KB1909's senior employee, former employee, is a consulting director of the DUTB today. There are many more cases like this. We ran into them at our work at the time of the commission of inquiry in banking. I believe that you have recently received a letter from the members of the National Assembly from the employees of the DUTB, where it has been said that nothing actually counts in this institution. The institution is headquartered, relations are catastrophic and many irregularities occur in this institution. Perhaps only two of the companies mentioned earlier, the DZS, unbelievably, a bank which in one of the Slovenian banks approved loans to DZS, changed direction after a bad bank was set up and employed directly in the company DZS and negotiated with a bad bank on loans that it approved. This is the situation in the Slovenian system. When we on the DUTB investigation committee requested documents from some controversial business, you won't believe our surprise and horror we got the original documents. If we got the original documents, it means DUTB lost the documents. Can you imagine? How can they afford that? The first thing we did was we just copied the documents and sent the originals back to the DUTB. Imagine if, because of any lost or document that would not have been in the house, they could frame the National Assembly or the Commission of Inquiry so that they could not carry out any business to the end. We have an important task ahead of us. I am also pleased that all the parliamentary groups have joined this investigative commission. This will be a difficult task. I think it will also require a lot of additional knowledge, in addition to banking legislation, forensics, criminality, and knowledge of insolvency law, so I hope that some parliamentary group as an expert will not propose Nina Plale. As you know, she participated in the drafting of legislation, and then on the side of those who abused this legislation, as a consultant, in finding marriage holes or holes that were already incorporated on purpose in the legislation, and served well, and we taxpayers paid for it. As I said, this is the logical continuation of the work of the previous commission of inquiry. I believe that witnesses will come to this commission of inquiry with no light heart. I believe that the members of this Commission of Inquiry will cooperate well with a view to meeting the purpose and purpose of this Commission of Inquiry, as set out in the mandate. I sincerely hope that this will be the last investigative commission in this area, that there will be no need to carry out a third commission of inquiry in the next term, namely the work of the law enforcement authorities, because nothing would have been done there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u14	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The purpose of the establishment of the Bank Claims Management Company has been set up several times today. I will continue to use a name that is more commonly known as a bad bank. The basic purpose was therefore to transfer to it the assets of the debtors who were either indebted or insolvent at the time of the transfer, and also to deal with capital inadequacy. The weak bank is expected to implement a restructuring strategy for these financial liabilities in a way that would enable the debtor to achieve capital adequacy and thus be able to meet its financial obligations. In addition, the debtor is expected to regain liquidity on the market following the restructuring arrangements of the cash flows, to finance the return on assets and to carry out those urgent investments with a view to continuing its operations or to be able to resume its operations. The main task of the bad bank is therefore to assist in the restructuring of the banks of systemic importance that are in liquidity difficulties and to ensure that the assets are managed in a manner that is to the maximum extent possible to recover the funds of taxpayers that have been invested in bank recovery. From this point of view, the purpose of the establishment and the task to be performed by the bad bank is, in terms of the continuation of the business of the companies, reasonable and justifiable. A strategy for the implementation of business moves was also mentioned, which was also allowed. However, it turns out that there are serious shortcomings in the functioning of bad banks that prevent its efficient operation. The purpose of the establishment of a parliamentary investigation is understood as an assessment and determination of the actual situation with regard to the alleged non-economic and also unlawful decisions of the company in relation to the transfer, management and sale of claims and assets. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia also drew attention to this in its audit reports. They highlighted the dispute over the listing of the committees for the transfer of claims to a bad bank, the way they were selected and the establishment of an audit trail to ensure transparency of procedures. According to the Court of Auditors, the bad bank did not ensure that the buyer could not sell the claim further to third parties or that the debtors could not buy it back. This means that there was or is a risk that claims were sold to the original debtors, which was also mentioned. The report also mentions imprudent business in the process of ordering external advisory companies and avoiding competition between tenderers that have not been treated equally by a bad bank. In addition, an important question is raised as to who, which persons and which authorities have decided, whose claims and what values were transferred to the bad bank. As regards the irregularities in the sale of land, the non-compliance of the internal acts of the bad bank with the applicable legislation and also the functioning of the internal mechanisms, controls which caused damage to the property were found. Auditors have found cases of negligence and abandonment of mandatory conduct in the sale of land. In the opinion of the Government, it can also be concluded that in certain cases neither the internal acts of the bad bank nor the applicable legislation have been respected. This can be linked to the fact that the value of a bad bank would be damaged. The government considers that the Management Board of the Bad Bank has covered up the irregularities identified and has not provided timely, comprehensive reporting. We can also conclude that the Management Board has not acted in due time on the irregularities identified. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, it seems important to us to identify possible irregularities in the process of transferring claims and other assets to a bad bank, but we do not want anything to be announced in advance and to make premature conclusions without a proper assessment. The Investigative Commission will find out how the bad bank examined the buyers of the claim that they would not sell these claims to the original debtors, who were key decision makers in the transfer of claims, what were the criteria and criteria for determining the claims, what was the diligence in the management and audit of claims, and also the possible liability of the Bank of Slovenia as the regulator of the banking system. As we can conclude that certain anomalies have occurred in the operation and name of a bad bank since the rehabilitation of the banking system was financed by tax means and because the business of a bad bank is in the public interest, we will, of course, support the parliamentary investigation in the Marjan Šarca Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u16	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Now we are once, thank God, a policy that is so hated in this country, a policy that we are so hated in this country, at least once on one side, where I hope that we will point to the other side, which I think is the financial industry. And in the financial industry, my dears, there is no coincidence. All those who spoke before me — I sign all those words. But some things are freezing me out. What Jernej set up perfectly, Angie rounded up by doing crime first in businesses, then in banks, now doing it in DUTB, that's all, but you know, in public we still blame the politicians for everything that's going wrong in this country. However, we have some laws, some things we accept in good faith. But it's true that politics goes away, because a driver takes an instrument to a place eight times, that's probably 48 euros, because billions of dollars are stolen, and now I'm going to say nothing to anyone. I hope we can all figure out what's wrong here together. In all the years of the establishment and operation of the bad bank, many questions have accumulated, and all these questions are unfortunately unanswered. The reasons for its establishment and its consequences, believe me, have left a decisive impact on the last decade and on the lives of all of us, all of us citizens in this country. Poor claims were made by banks lending loans and in return they took insurance, real estate insurance, insurance in the form of shares in companies. Among those who rented these loans were honest entrepreneurs with a vision, but I'm afraid there were more of those so-called lumps. When the crisis occurred, the banks demanded massively faster repayments and higher insurance, including our banks, Slovenian banks. With such a way of thinking, banks, including foreign banks, that have carried money into their home countries, have also pushed those debtors who have fairly owed themselves with good intentions over the edge. Thus, a bank hole was created, and for a bank hole, it formed or began to operate a so - called credit spasm and the matter was closed. In all of this, banks have shown the same little understanding for the problems of businesses and people who have come into these problems. Like I said, one was tycoon loans, one was real corporate loans, but it all went to the same low. Therefore, the State had to recapitalise the occupied banks, the claims assessed as poor, totalling EUR 5 billion and EUR 4.9 billion respectively, into the so-called bad bank set up by the State with public money, and issue additional bonds to enable it to enter into business with claims that were now valued at only a billion and a half, i.e. to an indicative third of the original value. That was the basis, and here I agreed. However, as these values have been determined, I believe there remains one of the biggest and unanswered questions between us. In the following, we are probably all amazed by the attitude of this institution, the so-called bad bank, to its owner – to the country, to politics, if you want. The attitude towards problem solving and the attitude towards people, all those who have been called a bad bank in some way a stepmother. That's why the name is a bad bank in this case, a name, completely on the spot. In all these and many other cases, the bad bank was no better than the banks that were digging the hole and then triggered this credit crunch. Individual employees, individual executive directors, individual non-executive directors, this corporate knowledge they had – people have behaved very squeamishly for my concepts and have had a great deal of arrogance towards all the problems people have had, and this has somehow strengthened the anger between politics and among ordinary people towards this relationship in a bad bank. This arrogance, my dears, in addition to all the irregularities that the bad bank has done, requires some kind of response. Let's just remind ourselves of this story of construction subcontractors who came to a bad bank about the deletes. They did their part honestly, paid the job twice, did not get the blanks in the end, and were looking for papers, each time these papers come into play, and today these subcontractors have not yet received their dues. Let us remember the murmuring, for my understanding, and the rejection of workers' offers in order to buy back the company, for example, Adrio Technika – no, had to come a stranger. Our people with knowledge weren't good enough to buy out Adrio Technik. Let us recall the problems of some municipalities where empty buildings remained in the municipalities, and the municipalities wanted to contact the DUTB in some of the projects, I hope, were unfairly rejected. Why? Do they only count the highest bids? Is it just money? There's a big question here again. Therefore, it is so much more difficult to understand other cases when this same bad bank has stepped into very friendly contact with customers. With those buyers who had a lot of money, however, it is more unusual for those who did not have any money at all to have ties, especially with those people who made bad claims, and the business was done very quickly. Therefore, it is difficult to get rid of the impression that a bad bank – of course, we are smarter today – is not a product of this financial industry in order to buy cheap and the buyers are first and foremost chosen and predetermined. This arrogance of some individual gentlemen who are in important positions is that they can behave corporately, that they can manage assets and that they are not obliged to account for anyone. Not even some Members, some politicians who are anyway in need. The question to be answered or to be answered by this Commission is, for my terms, very well in 11 points on 2 pages. In some cases it will not be necessary to determine whether irregularities have been committed because irregularities have been committed, as the Court of Auditors has determined them in one way or another, but, of course, this is not enough, some are still in place. So I believe that this commission will be successful in its work, as have some others so far, and that we will get some epilogue and not just the politics of that black duck in our country. The three audits of the Court of Auditors identified the operation of a bad bank from 2013 to 2015 as ineffective, non-economic and gave a negative opinion. The latter was issued on 5 July last year, a month after the last election to the National Assembly. Of course, it is the first DURB operations, when, in fact, DutB began, after transferring most claims to its property and mainly for the period, my dears, when this bank was run by so-called foreign managers, who are of course significantly better than ours, because it is a universal impression, but I say, it doesn't matter whether John or John or John is John, the one who is going to cheat who thinks I will say to take advantage of it, is no better. I hope that all the irregularities that these people have committed will be identified. There have been so many unanswered questions that the Commission will have, I agree with Angie, very difficult work, but we know enough facts to limit the investigation to the limits of parliamentary competence. Perhaps the most critical aspect of the DUTB operation will be the facilitating circumstance for the work of the Commission. It was designed and operated directly by only a handful of public officials or politicians, and most of the others we asked more or less for clarifications, which, here I agree with most of you, sometimes we have not received at all. We are therefore pleased in the party of the Social Democrats that we have the final political majority to investigate and enlighten the entire problematic period. Every confidence must be restored, so I hope that all parliamentary groups will participate in the work of the Commission in a constructive manner, as we have all actively participated in the investigation committee in the banking rehabilitation during the previous term. I believe that we have not all completely wasted the opportunity for a bad bank until the end of the planned operation, that this bad bank has successfully completed its work in common, but only if we all learn from it and not only in politics but elsewhere. Of course, the Social Democrats will participate actively in the work of the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The company for bank debt management, which was reduced by DUTB, or also by a bad bank, was created in excruciating economic circumstances at the turn of 2012 and 2013, when the so-called double-bottom crisis was cut in all seasons of our lives. As a result, the political circumstances reached the top with the infamous KPK report and the collapse of the other Janša government coalition. As we look back today on the events of a few years ago, we can conclude, as far as the rehabilitation of the banking system is concerned, that this rehabilitation was extremely expensive, unfortunately it is highly recognized and untransparent. The establishment of a bad bank was accompanied by violent opposition from the opposition at the time, requiring even the implementation of the referendum. In the end, all the complications were cut off by the Constitutional Court, which concluded that the effective functioning of the State in particular in the context of the economic crisis had an advantage over the right to a referendum. Although Alenka Bratušek, as an opposition Member, initially opposed the concept of the resolution of the banking system through a bad bank, she later decided, as Prime Minister of the Government, to continue to consolidate public finances, privatisation and also bank recovery through the DUTB. Why was the bad bank so important at the time of creation? Its main task was to help systemic banks with liquidity and solvency problems. Thus, he prevented the collapse of our entire banking system, which was not as far away as we might imagine today. In setting up a bad bank, four key objectives were pursued: to reduce the total cost of repairing the banking system, to stabilise, to actively manage and participate in the restructuring of the economy, and eventually to sell assets at the highest possible cost when market conditions are normalised. Since assets and assets were not to be sold under duress, the life expectancy of the DUTB was already extended by an additional 5 years, i.e. by the end of 2022, when the remaining assets and rights and obligations would be transferred to SDH. We've got as much going on as we planned. The paper just passed on everything, I believe that, well-intentioned legal provisions, guidelines and similar writings, but unfortunately everything else has started to happen in practice. There are doubts that there have been more uneconomic and perhaps even illegal decisions in the operation of a bad bank so far. Reports from the Court of Auditors and the findings of the KPK raise concerns about the functioning of the bad bank since its establishment, as well as criminal investigations, government reports, the resulting staff exchanges and various media records do not exactly testify to the fair business practices of DUTB. At the beginning of the previous mandate, the government of Dr. Mir Cerar faced these challenges, which led to a rapid response, solved the DUB leadership and gave the country as its sole owners more power to manage, control and staff in a bad bank. But it is obvious that these measures, too, have unfortunately not been sufficient to eliminate all risks and irregularities. Most of the evidence of imprudent business is generated by the very area of property sales, mainly claims and real estate. There are suspicions that some of the buyers selected were also the original debtors or closely related persons. In this way they were given the opportunity to buy back their pre-charged assets at heavily discounted values, and the difference was paid by all taxpayers. Such practices should simply not take place. The rehabilitation of the banking system was too expensive for anyone to play with our money like that. For a more visual representation of the whole dimension, let me repeat just a few facts and numbers. Bad claims and investments were transferred from four major business banks in difficulty, namely NLB, NKBM, Abank and Bank Celje. The total gross value of the negative claims transferred was almost EUR 5 billion and their carrying value was almost EUR 1.6 billion, so the average discount was 68%. The additional EUR 300 million was also the total cost of the purchase of claims, the rehabilitation and the addition of Probank and Factor Bank. These aren't small numbers, far from it. We therefore rightly expect that this parliamentary investigation will explore all the circumstances and possible doubts about the way in which the bad bank is formed, the transfer of bad claims and investments, the accession of Factor Bank and Probank, the management of the bad bank, and that the Commission will determine whether the functioning of DUTB alone poses a systemic risk and the continuation or even deepening of the bank hole. We also propose to the current government or the competent finance minister that, irrespective of the conduct of this parliamentary inquiry, he exercise consistent and active control over the functioning of the DUTB and ensure that the operation of the bad bank is more transparent, economical and fair. Finally, I would like to stress in particular that in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on behalf of all taxpayers, who have been rehabilitating our banking system, we will insist and demand that by the end of the term of office a bad bank fulfil its statutory mandate to deal with the public money it has received in order to remedy the banking system and then to return it back to the budget to the fullest possible extent possible. Therefore, it will act in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not only in the interest of a handful of privileged ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have reached the position of the last parliamentary group, Primož Siter will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much, chairman. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! There are more than enough reasons to investigate the business of DUTB. Since its establishment in 2013, DUTB has been actively involved in the sale of state property, Slovenian companies and properties at absurdly low prices. In this regard, as the Court of Auditors and the KPC have also cited in the reports, price adjustment, concealment of information, unequal treatment of tenderers, gross infringements of public procurement rules, disputed recruitment practices and disproportionate determination of the level of salaries of employees have been served for years. We supported the establishment of a commission in Levica, but provided that the investigation covered the period from 2009 onwards when the first calls for the establishment of a bad bank appeared in the public eye, and not only since 2012 when the legal basis for the establishment of the DUTB was adopted, as originally proposed in the NSI. It will also be possible to explore the many controversial practices and interests of key actors involved in the establishment of the DUTB. Unlike NSI Members in Levi, we believe that the bad bank has been a bad idea since the beginning, as it was based on the principle of privatisation of profits and cost-sharing. Before the establishment of the DUTB, Slovenian economists such as Ivan Ribnikar and Jože Mencinger warned of this. They have rightly warned that the State's poor bank's plan is for a solution that will stand far behind the establishment of internal bad banks or the direct state recapitalisation of taxpayer banks. They also rightly pointed out that the bad bank will not be able to know the situation in each individual company, so that it will not be able to properly assess the bad loans itself, and that it will not finally succeed in their recovery. In mockery of these warnings, during the second government of Janez Janša, part of which was also established by NSI, a state-run bad bank, as requested by so-called young economists, gathered around Janez Šušteršič. Such a DUTB has been conceived from the beginning as a fast selling institution. It was established in the form of a company of private law owned by the public, which is not subject to many restrictions. Not only payroll, the DUTB can operate without restriction with companies from tax havens. The State and state-owned companies shall not enter into business with undertakings whose ownership is unknown and the DUDB does not have such restrictions. This, of course, means that speculative funds, burdened with paying taxes, have an automatic advantage. In addition to these, the former owners, who can now return to their property through the tax havens with large discounts. Scandals involving individuals who were indirectly or directly involved in the business of DUTB could be listed indefinitely but would not bypass the key problem. The DUTB was by no means designed as an institution of public interest which, following an accident, was made invalid because of some condescending acts by morally challenged individuals who used it to pursue their private interests. From the very beginning, the DUDB was founded on economic, legal and political foundations, which not only enabled such action but even encouraged it. The DUTB scandals that we have read about in the media over the last six years, therefore not only random anomalies, but the structural principle of the function of DUTB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. First, he wants the word "proposer." Here you go, Jerney Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Thank you to all representatives of the parliamentary groups for their positive views. Let me first explain this last one. In Novi Slovenije, when we prepared this documentation, we agreed that it was being investigated or that the start of the investigation was in 2009. The wrong information, "as opposed to us", was given in the position. So, we agree, and we're also here with Levi, which has been a problem for the start of the 2012 investigation, then we've reconciled all things. So I think that's right, 2009, if we want to do a thorough investigation. Also in 2011, and various lobbyist contacts are mentioned, the various articles that have written about this are therefore correct and we agree. Don't make any mistake. In fact, if it's set in the way it is, and it's going to be done like this, we're actually going to start at the very beginning. People were mentioned, the first suit around the bad bank, and so-called boys from Sweden. I want one thing for these people to respond to the invitation and come before the committee of inquiry to testify. If anything, then the commission of inquiry must not separate us and yours, but treat everything equally. And I'm saying DUTB's been in the middle of it from the very beginning. The transfer of claims itself, which has already been mentioned several times, and I will present another case that has not been so exposed during today's debate, you know, from NKBM to DUTB, some 10% of Letrik's shares have also been transferred. The stock value on the day of the transfer was EUR 31. That was the value. At the time of the transfer, however, it was valued — how much? Ten, two euros. 20 euros less. So, who valued it? How were decisions taken in the bank to transfer the stock at such a value? Who damaged this bank that we taxed? This will be the task of our investigative commission. But, look, this is the same case: within a few months, within a month, this stock has already been quoted at €42 on the stock exchange and sold to a German company at €67. So, DutB has optimized this story well. But, look at it, look at the low transfer, this discount, the transfer value from DUTB to DUTB, ladies and gentlemen, was in particular due to the interest of not the German buyer who gave a fair price, but one other Slovenian buyer who wanted to buy these shares and take over Letrika. And at first this gentleman thought it would work. In the end, the bank was damaged. They were mentioned at the beginning of the advisory agreement and so on. Of course, any advisory contracts concluded at the DUTB or concluded by DUTB from the outset will have to be reviewed by the Commission of Inquiry. One more example, which is the media record of Quartz, with which DUTB concluded EUR 2.7 million of advisory contracts. The man employed by Quartz was Mr Münsson, who later became the Executive Director of the Bad Bank. I think it's only been two months, something like that. And let those responsible say what they did, Quartz, for 2.7 million euros. That's the key. This case is criminalized, and it is also held by the Court of Auditors. Before I went back to the transfer, there was already a source of the problem. [[…]] Thus, in what way, who has decided what will be tolerated, how will be valued, what were the criteria and criteria for determining claims and their values. However, if they were criteria, it is crucial that the Commission of Inquiry determine whether these criteria have been respected. And we have a problem — do you know what it is? The fact that there were no criteria that the internal audit did not work, at least after the known data, and that even in certain cases, when they had the criteria, they did not respect them at all. So we have not only one problem, we have more problems. This has also been noted by the Court of Auditors in all its audits. What I regret is that the policy – yes, we, too, this National Assembly – has not done anything in the three Court of Auditors reports with a negative opinion on the response reports as well. Especially the previous term. And we had 15 investigative commissions or 15 investigative commissions to oversee public finances when we were troubleshooting the functioning of a bad bank. Next. At what price did the DUTB banks charge claims? Where did the ideas, the criteria, that the discounts were given? Why such discounts? Who made that decision, and in what way? At the same time, it is necessary to verify whether, by the Government, the legislative authorities have also taken or made unlawful or non-economic decisions. I find, in particular, to check the methodology, this is what I want to stress in the transfer itself, the DUTB methodology for individual evaluation of individual categories of funds. We are not just talking about claims, we can also talk about real estate, other property shares, loans and so on. However, once again, as highlighted in the previous mandate of the previous Investigative Commission on the Banking System, the so-called Logar Commission – what was the role of the regulator, the Bank of Slovenia? Because I have a feeling that the Bank of Slovenia, at least in the last 10 years, is once again suspected to be an institution that is a state in a country that cannot be supervised by God himself, how it works. The regulator's problem is that we have witnessed possible damage to the taxpayer's money at the moment of the transfer. We have a number of cases, complaints, this moment when these people know that an investigative commission is being set up, we companies want to testify, we want to talk, people, former owners of companies, that they were injured, that they were given to a bad bank, that they regularly paid off all their debts, paid off their loans, and that they agreed there solely because of the interest of a group of individuals, that they would later be cheap, with certain discounts sold to the customers concerned. Crime! I can't believe this can happen today, here and now in this country. It was mentioned earlier how it can happen, the case of ACH, that the original debtors become final owners. And that's not all in this case. We have Elan, Polzel, Adria Airways. You know, these companies were sold together, in a group of this American fund. In the group. And no one today, I'm saying, can even tell the DUTB what the value of BAMLI, this American fund, is also picked up by, say, Elan. Because there is documentation that there were more buyers for Elan and that if we were selling this individually, it would not be in the group, but DUTB would have earned more. But they didn't sell individually, even though they could survive more. Why not? I can't interpret it any differently than it is to cover up the way the business is done, the way it works solely because of the interest of ACH. We'll investigate that. Who are individual funds, that's what Levica mentioned. I'm just gonna ask you specifically, do you know the York Fund? Who is the York Fund, which has accounts in Cyprus and purchases assets on the DUTB with the same people who used to operate in companies, the attention that landed on the DUTB, their claims? Today they're doing business and managing with the York Fund. This, we need to explore this, and we will explore it, because there are other problems here. Is it perhaps – as I said in the introduction – that of Slovenian money from the period of transition that went to tax havens and is now returning to Slovenia? Are these also related to the risks addressed, for example, by the law on the prevention of money laundering and perhaps even terrorist financing, as we have seen in the previous mandate? What mechanisms do we have to filter out, whose money comes into the country, Slovenia? We have established in the previous term that these mechanisms are not good and that they can be so [[shows with gesture]] comes into the country of billions of euros and no alarm is triggered that it may be a risk capital for terrorist financing to start mechanisms in just ten years. And do these things happen to us over and over again through buying DUTB claims? Today, claims, bad claims and the purchase of claims are a big business, and it can be very well earned. For this reason, I know that the Commission of Inquiry will deal with a number of people who have their own financial interests, and it will be extremely difficult to work, but I also believe in professional support, and I hope that the National Assembly, Madam Secretary-General of the National Assembly, will make it possible for this Commission of Inquiry to work optimally and allocate sufficient funding for our professional assistance. The Members themselves will not be able to investigate this. Another thing to mention is the ongoing business of the DUTB. One more thing is happening: there are indications that we are deliberately draining companies that are under the control of a bad bank. One is here in our immediate neighborhood, when debt rises when management costs rise when, for ten years, even at the time of the merger, this company operates negatively when strange things happen, when the sale just so flat-rately cheap parts of the property of this company are established in Slovenia. Who controls this type of operation and does DUTB? Although it would be best to sell this company at the best possible price, no, it will be exhausted and sold cheap if we do not stop it! Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors carried out three audits on the DUTB and all three were given a negative opinion. I quote what the President of the Court of Auditors, Tomaž Vese, said. We have found that a number of companies that did not meet the criteria for non-performing claims or even regularly repay their obligations have not even been given any specific justification that these companies could be placed in a position where their claims could be unprofitable and have been transferred to the DUTB on the initiative of different individuals or institutions. Let us ask ourselves one question: Who will pay the damages to the owners of these companies? Who? What if these companies start suing the country for being put into bankruptcy? Or there are bankruptcy managers. And we have cases – and let some of these cases remain for the commission of inquiry – that the bankruptcy managers in the bankruptcy process, when they managed this company, acted uneconomically and concluded harmful business for this company and thus exhausted this company. The DUTB Executive Directors, who were the Executive Directors of DUTB, must give a thorough answer to these questions. On the basis of the Court of Auditors’ opinion, it is indeed a crucial question which the Court of Auditors did not then find: What were these persons in the period 2013, 2014, 2015, who decided on transferable claims? What people? We need to question these people and bring them to justice. Next. The establishment of the DUTB alone has also been reviewed by the Court of Auditors and the advisory contracts and so on, as is also under investigation, but there the Court of Auditors finds that 14 infringements of the rules and acts have been found, including infringements of the procurement procedures! Public procurement procedures. Additional damage to the state budget. Finally, the Court of Auditors also issued one audit last July and again a negative opinion, and preparatory action or response report is expected. One more thing: subcontractors. If anything, we must worry that the disadvantaged are the weakest because of the operation of the bad bank. During the operation of the bad bank, it happens that subcontractors of Vegrad-Am, d.o.o., received apartments in the construction of the Celov Castles instead of a cash payment. It's a normal part of the operation. These apartments were burdened with mortgages for the benefit of the New Ljubljana Bank, but, look out, Nova Ljubljanska Banka has ensured that she will issue deleted dividends for these mortgages, which of course did not happen. These mortgages were then transferred along with the claims, they were transferred to the DUB, which then required thousands of euros per square metre from the owners of these apartments to erase these mortgages. I'm wondering who's crazy here. And you know, now no one gets to dutb at all. Nobody. They say it doesn't even exist. These subcontractors, the small economists who built these buildings, such as Nokturno, Celovské dvora and so on, must buy their own apartments back! They have to buy them back. A thousand Euros per square meter. Crazy! It's unimaginable. And there's no such thing as documents to handle it. More! In the previous term, we had this on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, three Commissions referred to this subject, and the National Assembly agreed that this should be regulated, that the Government, as the Assembly, should arrange this, and that is not settled, has not yet been settled. Then we are also witnessing tragic events when these people do not get their own money. More! We're tight when we say they have to pay extra if they want to get to their apartments. It's inhumane behavior. I believe the National Assembly will be successful in investigating these machinations. Do you know what our advantage is to criminals, law enforcement, judges, prosecutors and so on? That we have the public in front of us, the camera option, and that these people have to come here to the National Assembly and answer. Respond to all the crap they've done during this period. However, I believe that there will be a great deal of help in working for us in other information that we will be able to obtain in the course of the investigation itself, not only what we have gathered so far, of course. But there's also other information that can't be collected. However, I hope – and I am giving this moment an invitation to the DUTB staff – that there should be no crime of erasure, document cutting and other crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Now he gets the word "magic." Bojana Muršič, prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What we hear today is simply inappropriate. I'm appalled at all these allegations. Although we have heard quite a few things in the previous mandate in the adoption of the DUTB reports, I will say very interesting things, and the Commission on Public Finances has also been working in this area, which has not been epilogued. These arrogances that we have experienced, I must say, are inappropriate, and these circuits of leadership in finding better wages were unacceptable to me at the time. Thus, the accumulation of all these problems in the DUTB is immensely large, many questions are being asked, and the Commission of Inquiry will have a lot of work to do to find responsibilities. Above all, the Commission will seek political responsibility for all these problems, the behaviours that have arisen during this period. However, I must say that I am very much asked where the competent authorities have been so far. In the audit report for 2014/2015 – if we look at this in detail, the detailed report covers 400 pages and more – there are indeed so many irregularities that it freezes you. If a politician makes one single mistake or if there is only a suspicion that he has made a mistake, all the apparatus is triggered, and all media campaigns against that Member or any other policy are launched and such a policy is eventually destroyed. In this particular case, however, I must say that there were no substantial media references, and this really hurts me. If I touch on this 2014/2015 audit report when you look at it – red lights should be burning already. What does that mean? Let me point out that DUTB has taken over from NLB a portion of claims that was not in line with the decisions of the Government of Slovenia and the European Commission, which set a certain amount of claims of slightly less than 1 billion 700, excluding claims of 130 million volition, without the notification of the interdepartmental commission, the Ministry of Finance — yes, the people of God, but can they themselves work and can do without any supervision? Next. By taking over the risk items, it did not conclude all the necessary legal acts with banks, did not provide timely acquisition of credit documentation, did not have full documentation. Dear God, where are we? Why is that? Is that really how a good master behaves? The DUTB has adopted several different internal acts on decision-making procedures in the management of assets and has received no agreement. Can we do that? I will specifically say that if an internal act is adopted, someone has to confirm it, and the systemisation has to be confirmed somewhere. So I don't understand it here, or I don't understand it. The DUTB did not adopt a plan for the sale of funds for 2015; it was not published on the website. Why and for what purpose? This will be the responsibility of the Commission to deal with this. No appropriate basis was provided for the management of claims to decide on the execution or acquisition of real estate. The property taken without issuing a public notice, without collecting competitive offers, the decision has not been taken by the competent authority – and God loves it, what does that mean? What I mean is, really, I just don't understand where it all went during this period. [[…]] In 2015, it did not regulate the way documents are managed, recorded and stored, there was no proper recording, received and outgoing mail – everywhere, all institutions need to have it regulated, but the DUTB is some other body that, I don't know, does what it wants. There are a lot of questions, I hope that we will finally get the answers. That is why it is so important that all the political options that we have in this House are appointed to this committee by the most competent people who know the issues – as the proponent has mentioned – those who have previously dealt with this, perhaps criminalists, lawyers who know this area, because we all have a little less experience in this area. However, I believe that those who will be appointed to this committee will try to find solutions, also consult others, to see what we now have as the suspicions of criminal services in order to reach the final epilogue. In particular, it is necessary for the Commission to focus on the substance or which of the public function holders is responsible for these irregularities, inefficiencies, inefficiencies in the business of the DUTB. For the purpose of DUTB was not in this direction, when it was established to act improperly, ineffectively, inconveniently, it was absolutely necessary to end it. But the key is to learn from this that those who have done anything wrong will even that. There is certainly a broader public interest in this investigation in view of the damage and the resources invested. After all, I support this investigative committee. I would like to see the results achieved in this mandate and then the competent authorities will do their part in the end. The only thing I would suggest to the Commission is that, in the event that the irregularities we now suspect are confirmed, I think that legislation should also be passed on so that such people who have participated in such procedures in one way or another would never again be able to act in the leading cities. That's my appeal. Once again, let me say good luck to the investigative commission that will do this very difficult work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, he gets the word of Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry on the functioning of the DUTB will be to receive sufficient broad support in the National Assembly, the actual agreement of all parliamentary groups. My personal opinion is that the way is right, and the question is whether time is right. I am of the opinion that, in view of everything that is said, it would probably make sense for such an investigative commission to be established in connection with the operation of the DUTB to be established earlier. The fact is, in the previous mandate, we have also pointed out that there are likely irregularities in society, and last but not least, the result of the Banks Claims Management Company's operation has indicated that something is probably very wrong. The fact is that the company was set up for a good purpose, its mission was primarily to transfer bad claims from banks where it was found that these banks were unable to manage bad claims successfully. And the purpose of this company was to manage these poor claims and, on the other hand, to help taxpayers, who, for the second time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, have recovered more than EUR 5 billion, in some ways. The fact is, this is at least my personal opinion, now that we find that society has actually been “abused” since the first day of operation. Ever since the first day of the operation of this company, we have been able to read a number of records in the media that were not in line with some positive business practice. Even more than that, from the very beginning of this company, we have been able to read in the media a number of records on high advisory contracts, on advisory contracts that have actually been concluded with employees who also owned their own in these advisory companies. The second step was that there was a great shadow of doubt as to the correctness of the transfer of claims to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and, last but not least, of the values of these bank claims. As early as the first year of operation of the Bank Claims Management Company, we were able to witness that the result was actually artificially created, artificially created by revalued these claims. Here, there was not a difference of 10,000 euros, but of the millions of differences in overvaluation. The fact is that the bad bank should be operating on profits, and from 2013 to around 2017 we have witnessed that the Company for Bank Claims Management has always had a negative result and the negative result has been multimillionths. In fact, it was here where you could read that the loss of business from year to year had accumulated, the capital of this company had melted, and, last but not least, the number of employees in this company had increased. Last but not least, we were able to read that the employees were paying off and I don't know what extras with the salaries themselves. The fact is that it is likely that this investigative commission is urgently needed, I am sure that this investigative commission will have a difficult job and, on the one hand, it may not be difficult to work, because if this commission takes seriously the work done by the Logar Commission in investigating abuses in the banking system in the previous term, I am sure that there will be some successful outcome. The fact is that this institution has been abused, the fact is that in these institutions it has always been by the management, management of this company's arrogant attitude towards the National Assembly and Members and Members. A number of financial committees, a number of public financial oversight committees, have witnessed the fact that the management of these companies did not participate at all in the Commissions or in the Committees and, on the other hand, they did not want to answer certain questions. Finally, it should be pointed out that the Assembly of this Society has always been the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We know who had a mandate from the founding of this company to today, and here is a considerable responsibility for these changes by the management of which many in Parliament itself have warned in the National Assembly itself, but not least that has been pointed out by certain media. Once again, I expect the Commission, following the example of the Commission on the identification of bank irregularities led by Dr Logar, to continue this work in the previous term and that the conclusions of this Commission will also contribute positively and that similar business practices will not continue in the future. The fact is, the great shadow of doubt falls on this institution. Last but not least, we have seen how arrogant this company has put companies in bankruptcy, despite the fact that bankruptcy companies were not mature. I am convinced that because of a number of business decisions made in the past at the Banks Claims Management Company, this company will have to pay a number of penalties, as well as compensation. Last but not least, we had to recapitalise the company at 50 million for the transfer of 2 banks, Factor Banks and Probanks, and to this company, if I say so, we were warned, but the government at the time was not listening. The fact is that the company was set up with a good purpose, with a good mission, is the transfer of claims and the refund of tax money. The purpose of this company was also a time-limited period, which means that this company should also try to resold these claims — the only task it had — which was transferred. However, the matter has changed since the government of Alenka Bratušek and then the government of Mir Cerar in the other direction, namely, that the life expectancy of this institution has increased, that this institution has been added even to the fact that the company has to restructure, although we have then warned ourselves that if you want to restructure an enterprise, you must have a frame for it and, on the other hand, capital. Neither one of them had a bank claim management company. At that second stage, we witnessed to so-called house counselors, and not to mention any further details. I am sure that this Commission will have a responsible job, a lot of work to do, so I can only wish for all who will be members of this Commission to do their job successfully, which is why this Commission was set up.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Matei Udovč, and prepare yourself for Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Given the support shown in the National Assembly, which is based on the list of Members' signatures, there is no doubt that there is a great interest and the will of all of us to determine the actual situation in the area of the bad bank. I hope that this climate will also be transferred to the very functioning of the Commission of Inquiry. The purpose and purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to identify and explore the actual state of play in a public matter. The findings will be the basis for Parliament's decisions. The DUTB case calls for an independent parliamentary inquiry into its business. In the professional circles, in the professional public, in the public media, there are too many different information among taxpayers, showing that they are not transparent, irregular and sometimes illegal. It is necessary to establish the responsibility of all relevant and responsible actors in this area because they suspect that they have indirectly or directly affected the alleged non-economic or unlawful decisions of the DUTB. The Commission will need to identify the responsibility and role of both the Government and the DURB Assembly and the management boards of the DUTB in the adoption of the alleged contested decisions of 6. 2. Come in, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, In particular, they will have to investigate the transfer of claims or other assets to the DUTB, where there have been several irregularities, which were also pointed out by the Court of Auditors in its audit report, the course and conditions of transfer of claims or other assets between 2013 and 2015, who were the key decision makers in the transfer, what were the criteria and criteria for determining the claims and their value, and at what cost the DUTB banks charged the transferred claims. The methodology for the evaluation of individual categories of assets, loans, real estate or equity developed by DUTB in the first half of 2014 should be identified and clarified. All internal audits and analyses should be obtained and examined, while at the same time checking the selection of appropriateness, the work of the external advisers involved in the evaluation process. It is necessary to establish the Bank of Slovenia’s possible liability as the regulator of the banking system, the prudentness of the DUTB in the management and audit of claims, the appropriateness of the procedures for the sale and resale of claims, the pursuit of the key objectives of the DUTB, the manner and criteria by which the DUTB verified the claims to avoid the sale of those claims to the original debtors or to those debtors associated, directly or indirectly with persons or companies, the appropriateness of the procedures for verifying the origin of the money intended to purchase the DUTB and the related risks to the areas governed by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, to verify the consistency of advisory contracts with internal acts and personnel and payment policies at the DUTB. At the same time, in the debates, we must not forget its task and its role in managing the claims of banks. Its task is to assist in the restructuring of banks that are of systemic importance, which are in severe solvency and liquidity problems. The DUTB must act in accordance with the key objective, this is to reduce the total cost of the budget, and to reimburse the value of the assets for Slovenian taxpayers. In its business, it must pursue the objective of reaching the highest possible price on the market in the sale of assets. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the DUTB has faced constraints and inconsistencies in achieving its strategic objectives, which also stemmed from other legislation, in particular in the areas of insolvency laws and laws restricting remuneration in state-owned companies. Therefore, the National Assembly adopted amendments to the ZUKSB Act, which entered into force on 27 January 2016. The government of Dr. Mira Cerar has taken quite a few measures to regulate the situation in this area. In 2015, it adopted a set of measures to ensure a more efficient functioning of the DUTB, confirmed the new remuneration policy and internal act of the processes and the decision-making powers of the DURB committees, and also resolved three non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Management Board for infringements of the duties of a member of the Management Board. In view of the loss of confidence, she called off the Executive Director and acted in the role of the assembly under the DUDB Statute. It thus sought to remedy the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors and the Government and to ensure its effective functioning in the future. The government has also sought to ensure the smooth functioning of the DUB through appropriate human resources solutions. It is precisely because of the importance of its business application for the financial monetary sector as a whole that it is necessary to find answers to all the questions raised and to take appropriate action in accordance with the competence of the National Assembly and all other bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u29	Your Honor, thank you very much for your opinion. Mr Jani Prednik will have the floor for Mr Joseph Horvato. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Usually, in the debate, I will address the matter in the end and, at the outset, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats who have prepared this act on the establishment of the parliamentary commission, I sincerely thank all of you, all the Members of Parliament, all the Members and Members who have contributed to your signatures. Here is some of our truly good, praiseworthy unity. It also goes on to thank the National Assembly, more precisely the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, who, as we have heard, provided the resources for professional assistance not only to this but also to other parliamentary investigative commissions. This must be a good trip, and, colleagues and colleagues, I hope that in this term the number 89 will somehow unify us. First, 89 signatures under this Act, and yesterday 89 votes for the new Ombudsman. I was reading an interview with our colleague Dr. Logar, who led the previous commission, and he said, among other things, that we lost 5 Zuyfs in the bank hole, which is simply the place of the century. Yes, but we didn't lose money at Zuyf's, yes, we did, we were saving, that's what the citizens felt on their own skin in their everyday lives, and Zuyf had effects. We stabilized public finances and protected Slovenia from bankruptcy. But when it comes to a bank hole, that money actually went. We now have a lot of experience on the basis of the banking investigative commission of the previous mandate to continue this. Of course, I believe that this parliamentary commission of inquiry will propose legislative changes, as parliamentary commissions are also intended to do so. Again, the former Logareva has proposed several amendments to the laws, very clearly, unanimously, in fact, decisions have been taken in this direction, including with regard to the establishment of a special court and so on. This has not yet been realized, and this is also the task of this national assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, at sanctioning those responsible for the bank hole or more precisely for another bank hole, the rule of law in Slovenia either persists or falls. I repeat, on sanctioning those responsible for the second bank hole, the rule of law persists or falls in Slovenia, as this is a key issue that we can otherwise close trade. The law enforcement authorities now have everything in their hands, on the table, and it's only a matter of time before they do their job. Here I also call on the Minister of Justice to encourage, within his powers, the Slovenian judiciary, the law enforcement authorities and so on, that we may get to the results as soon as possible. If I am already referring to one of the objectives of each parliamentary commission inquiry, i.e. the amendment of legislation, I recommend that I cannot ask, I recommend that this parliamentary commission of inquiry, whose act of establishment we are currently considering, open or recommend, also require that the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property be amended. It is true that certain provisions of this law have fallen before the Constitutional Court, but I am sure that if the National Assembly had played its real role here in the previous term, it would not have been, and would have defended me. We were asked, so we didn't answer. This is a key question, we must not forget it. This is a broader national interest that we need to know how to defend, and I am confident that this law will come back on the parliamentary bench as soon as possible, to write it as it is in the spirit of the law – that the assets obtained illegally must be seized by the competent authorities. Every time I move around the city, in the village or anywhere else, people knock on my sleeve and tell me, because they know very well what a bank hole means, and they already know it very well, and they knock on my sleeve and say, "Hey, you, Member, when are you going to take away those who took us?" Because, yes, this bank hole every citizen feels in a negative sense on his own skin. I was there when we adopted the ZUKSB at the end of 2012, i.e. the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, there was also quite a bit underfoot, then the Positive Slovenia and three other Members submitted a referendum request. I can say this now, I hope that I will not exasperate anyone, that Positive Slovenia has not been in the National Assembly for several years, so this is not about anyone – that no one will tell me – political accounting, these are the facts. But thank God, then the Constitutional Court said: “No, the referendum will not.” So this law then entered into force immediately in early 2013. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, I have pointed out this several times, Article 33 of this Act, which states in the first paragraph, allow me to read: “Members of the management board of the DUTB”, says the Companies for the Management of Bank Claims, “are liable to any suspicion of criminal conduct by members of the management bodies and members of the supervisory authorities of banks and the supervisory authorities of banks who are aware of the performance of their jobs, in particular when reviewing credit maps, to notify the competent authorities immediately.” I also summarize the third paragraph of this Article: The statutes of limitations are, in this case, in the case of banking crime, four times the general statutes of limitation, as laid down by the law governing offences, as well as the law governing bond relations. It won't be long before I ask in the context of the question, how many of these allegations of suspicions of crime have been made and how many of these cases have been experienced in their epilogue. Therefore, on an official basis, the members of the DUTB Management Board must state the suspicions of the offences. Many different contributions, we have received letters at this time since my colleague Vrtovac announced that he was writing an act establishing a parliamentary commission of inquiry, and indeed, here we can only be appalled at what is happening in this bad bank, which was, of course, set up for good purposes, as one of the resources within this institution says. True and continues: “We have worked hard, effectively, in a positive atmosphere and with good intentions, but the ones we have dealt with have been cleaned up by the Scandinavians,” let us leave what the Scandinavians were like, this is now the second question, it was mainly a human resources clean-up, “and the system has been set up in its own way. So the source, the source that comes from the DUTB, is now no longer in the DUTB, so this can be reported. The cleaning was all the way to the secretary level. These are matters, and there are many such matters, especially those that have negative financial effects on our citizens. On these matters, I am confident that the entire team, which will be composed of this parliamentary investigative committee, will be successfully confronted, and I am also counting on the valuable professional assistance of the experts, who, I understand, will be able to propose to the parliamentary groups for more effective work. I wish the Commission a successful work for the benefit of each of the Slovenian taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Janije Prednik is Mr Gregor Perič, followed by Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u32	President, thank you. All Members and Members of Parliament have a good day! In fact, my colleague Horvat immediately thanked me, and I must say here that it is nice when we all agree in this House and when the vote finally shows that we are in agreement. I hope that another issue will be like this, not just with the investigative commissions. Before this Commission can begin to assess the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, it will have to face many questions as to whether irregularities and illegality have continued since the establishment of the DUTB, it must clarify the doubts about the transfer and redemption of claims, their valuation and the subsequent changes in their value. It must also establish the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia with regard to the selection, transfer value and methodology for the valuation of claims. It must explain the management and audit of DUTB claims, how they are sold and sold, and how the key objectives of DUTB are pursued, whether all providers are treated equally, or whether the DUTB is well concerned about verifying the origin of the capital of the buyers and preventing the purchase of the claims by the original owners. However, it must clarify the doubts regarding the advisory contracts, as well as the adequacy and usefulness of the merger between the Bank and Probank. We do not know the answers to all these questions. And that in itself means one big problem. Until the end of 2015, DUTB's irregularities and irregularities have already confirmed the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors, and the competent authorities will certainly provide a more detailed explanation of the functioning of the DUTB in the years from 2016 onwards. In this way, the Commission will not be tempted to go into the field of criminal investigation and irregularities. All of this has already been identified by the competent authorities and will certainly ensure the continuation of the procedures. This is said to point out that the Commission of Inquiry must focus on the essential question whether and which of the institutions of public functions is responsible for all these irregularities. All of this is so that this will not happen again, so that we can finally learn something from our own mistakes. In view of the damage caused and the funds invested, there is certainly a strong public interest in the investigation, which might not be necessary if, over the past years, DUTB justified its independence with transparency of business and also with more open communication. As has already been said in previous discussions, the Social Democrats support this commission of inquiry. We support it all in this House, and I hope it will be so in other matters. I wish the Commission a successful work for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. After Mr Gregor Peric, Mrs Ludmila Novak and Monika Gregorčič are. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! If we may not know exactly what to do in our National Assembly with constitutional accusations, I am pleased that with the investigative commissions we are already achieving the effects that we want something useful to come from them. In the past, this has been the case, and I believe that this Commission of Inquiry has a very strong potential for all of us to benefit from it, that is, our country, particularly our citizens or, in other words, taxpayers and taxpayers. However, in order to do so, it is still necessary to remove some of the shadows of some doubts, or so to say, it is my fear that, above all, because of the subject matter of the investigation, which is relatively broad, I would not want this aspect to affect, as a matter of fact, that the investigator himself would be as weak as such, so that, in terms of the application of those mechanisms and those remedies that he has at his disposal, it would also be unsuccessful. When I have read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we are reminded that we must be very careful and very precise in this regard, because it is only in this way that all other procedures can then also lead to the final objective of establishing some political responsibility of certain public function holders, I stress political responsibilities, not any other. This investigator we are talking about today has a very important role because we are actually talking about almost five billion of some value that we have transferred to a bad bank. And these five billion still require our attention to see how the procedures have been going on in the past, what is happening with these procedures today, and if we find certain irregularities, inconsistencies, systemic anomalies, whatever we call them, we will remove them today, so that tomorrow we will not have any further problems and new investigative commissions and so on and so on. We have also touched on pay issues today. Salaries are always an area in Slovenia, a topic that attracts a lot of attention. Everything that goes up is right and it is justified to do all the more that someone who receives a very high payment also responds and does their work in the way that is expected of him. Surely certain functions are very important and responsible and high pay also means that we place a person who is very highly qualified, professional and also has all the references from the past that some procedures lead as necessary. However, there is also a guarantee of non-substitution. If we have not met all these criteria, then we have a serious problem. I also see here some particular challenge for our political system, because certain functions in our country or in the country's subsystem are much better paid than the most responsible functions that are most in the public eye. This too is likely to need to be debated in the future. If, in the most responsible functions of our country, we want the most skilled, most qualified people who will also be willing to embark on a political field and also to endure a blow that is sometimes not justified, then we will also have to think about how to ensure all these criteria. Now, I will not go into the individual operations that have taken place under the auspices of the DUTB, because I believe that there will be sufficient time for this, especially for some in-depth, in-depth analysis at the time of the commission of inquiry. However, I would also like to point out in particular one aspect, namely to look at what is the origin of capital, which is then again via different channels from abroad to Slovenia. Is this true and does not come again to the individual privatisations of companies that we taxpayers have had to recover once because of inadequate management and business, exhaustion, and not to mention further. In the SMC, we think it is very important and we see the added value of this investigative commission, even in the sense of giving a positive signal to send positive messages, especially that these messages are followed by some very concrete measures, especially to our economy, because we want our economy to be healthy, stable, based on sound foundations and that we all have confidence in this economy together. If we do not have confidence in the economy, then our whole country will not go as well as it could. Of course, this researcher is also an opportunity to discuss what else we can do to raise our level of corporate culture or corporate governance. Here I believe we still have a lot of spares. All of these are some signals that I believe our market, although it is just a two-million-dollar one, is very much needed. All these signals must be positive and must also bear witness to some legal certainty, because only then will our economists be able to invest and trust in a country that will support them, not as someone who poses unnecessary obstacles to them. But it is also one of the aspects that I believe will light up in the process of functioning this commission of inquiry, our confidence in the banking system. In the past, there have been many things that have not happened to the banking system and to the aspect of trust in it. We have a lot to do here, too. I also see as one of the important aspects of the work of this commission of inquiry, at least the polytologists would call it an agenda-setting, i.e. the creation of some agenda. The message we send to these financial institutions or structures today is of great interest to us and is still important for the political functioning of our country, and ultimately to taxpayers, what is going on. I believe that it also has a dissuasive function from all those activities that are on the verge or are not in line with certain corporate practices, good governance practices and could still be listed. I hope that the scope of the subject matter of this inquiry will not have an effect in the sense that its purpose would dilute, but rather that it will be sufficiently broad enough to cover this area and to highlight all those aspects that are not good, and to correct them, to discuss political responsibility, to define it, in particular, to arrive at all the necessary improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. For Mrs Ludmila Novak it will be Monika Gregorčič and then Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! We always have good intentions when we adopt different laws, and so we also had very good intentions in setting up the DUTB. We knew that our banks were burdened with bad loans and that these loans had to be transferred to a bad bank so that these banks could work normally; of course, then we recapitalised them and so on. So, the purpose was excellent, good, real, but the implementation of this is very questionable, as we now find. If the Court of Auditors has produced a negative report three times for different periods and the government as a congregation has not acted, it has done nothing, then we know who is to blame for such a situation. In Parliament too, the opposition called for meetings, warned, even some conclusions were adopted, and the realization was poor, and things did not improve. On the contrary, we have also been approached by people who have been employed or run certain companies, such as Autotechna, who have proved that by reprogramming credits they can repay their obligations and the company will recover, but the bad bank wants to sell them. Such stories, unfortunately, took place, and then we can ask ourselves why, what is the purpose, who is behind these stories? We already have a problem, as some say, with a deep state. I have to say that I was never part of this country, I don't know the details or the people who are supposed to be there, but obviously something is actually going on there. If such companies were sold that could be saved, and then we find that some funds of unclear origin are buying those companies, then the circle turns around and then we can really ask ourselves what the interest was, especially if it wasn't sold to the best buyer. So, trust is lacking, but the most problematic is honesty, or indeed those who are responsible, work, manage this bad bank honestly. They're changing the frame. Only when we place people who manage our property, independent experts and honest people in such responsible places, not only are financial experts who know how to find holes, but who are also honest and responsible people, will we be able to trust the citizens to work with responsibility, honesty, to the best of our ability. But, unfortunately, there is no such trust. Well, we've already had some investigative committees. There have also been excellent reports. Some have discovered a lot. Unfortunately, then there are no final sequences, no epilogues. And then we feel like we're doing Sisyphus' work, rolling a rock with all our power to the top, and then calling it back, and nothing happens. So things stop too often when we get some results so that they don't go through with it. The final result must be to identify the culprits who must answer if they have done the damage, must also be reimbursed, and the money must return to the state treasury, which will then go to higher pensions, to scholarships, to social needs, to invest and so on. Thus, this bitter taste remains for the citizens, that they have been deceived, that the politicians have stolen everything, but we here, Members of Parliament, thank God that we do not have these options. And we're guilty. In the end, they say you're all the same, you robbed us and so on. That is why I am happy and thank all the political parties that we have been able to sign together, that we want to get things to the bottom. After the report is made, I also expect the competent authorities to carry out their task. So that there will be an epilogue and that some consonants will also be made and that the guilty will finally be known, the responsible, and the money returned.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs. Monica Gregorčič. But prepare yourself, Mrs Iva Dimic, followed by Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The establishment of a bad bank in a situation of deep economic crisis in 2012 is expected to be the first positive signal on the path of recovery not only of the banking system but of the economy as a whole. Unfortunately, this time too, if I paraphrase a little, the trip to hell was put under the best of purpose. For even such a good marriage is possible to escape, to abuse. However, the problem arises when such conduct is not sanctioned. Today, there are still many more questions than answers, and there is growing doubt that we may have gone about banking rehabilitation in the wrong way, whether we have done it professionally enough, with the right personnel or not. That is why I hope and expect this investigative parliamentary commission to answer all still open questions and dilemmas. In fact, if a bad bank is supposed to be a good systemic solution for inherited banking claims, transfers from business banks to DUTB should take place not only on the same professional methodology but also on the same criteria, and we know that this has not happened. The first experience of the customers of the bank’s committees, that is, the holders of credits, showed that business banks were mostly very poor and superficially prepared for the transfer procedures. So far, there have been open and unanswered questions, such as why there has not been a transfer of all bad claims to a bad bank, why claims have only been transferred to a certain bad company, only from some rehabilitated banks, and not from others, who has decided which banks have to transfer claims to the DUTB and which they can retain. The result of such incomplete decision-making has, of course, led to the fact that today’s rehabilitated banks are also very successful and profitable. In addition to all these issues, which are still relevant, I would highlight another very important area, the issue of evaluation. I hope that this investigative parliamentary investigation will also pay special attention to him. This is a matter of issue or conflict of interest for valueholders. Even before the crisis, they provided high valuations of funds and then turned the board around. They are therefore potentially at least guilty of misestimating the bank hole. In so doing, if I point out the systemic irregularity of the area where we have a double parallel system, one is regulated under the professional supervision of the Audit Institute, and the other part is so professionally unregulated under the interference of the judiciary, and therefore their assessments are somewhat looser and flexible, then we know that there is a serious problem that requires unification, unification as soon as possible, and the area needs to be addressed as soon as possible, certainly before the next crisis, in order not to repeat the exercise, because this whole area disorder has also had a negative impact and contributes to the bank hole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the word Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Daniel Krivec behind you, and the mags are also being prepared. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that acceptance took place in some way in 2013, the memory is still alive, including with me. What was going on? What was transferred to a bad bank, what claims? Who could stand it? All this wonders who could have endured these claims? Or was it those who really needed help or reprogramming or those who were closer to information that this was going to happen? It is right to find out and I am happy that, after all, the truth can finally be looked into, why we have a minimum wage in Slovenia, why we have so much excise duty, why we have high taxes, why we have a deficit, why we don't have free kindergartens. All because, in fact, EUR 5 billion of our common property has been accepted in some way or I will say the property of all of us Slovenians. When I was preparing for this point, I said that this is such a high number that people living with 500 or living with 500 euros a month, we don't even know what they did or how they did it. And a lot of people say, now that some lawsuits come, or when it comes to, maybe, the findings of illegally acquired property, people go to jail for 60 billion for three years. Can you imagine what a man who can barely get through a month is thinking? Because he'll have all his assets left. Why does he have the money? Because we don't know how to implement the Law on Illegally Acquisitioned Property. And I can tell you that with the state's wealth or money, the barant was like some kind of cow fair. That it was dealing with state property, like pigs with fur. And where are we now? I am pleased that, however, the Commission of Inquiry will find out and will identify the responsibility of all those involved, political responsibility and of course of all others. I believe because I believe it is good that all my fellow Members will help with this work. Of course, this means that you will also ensure the conclusion of the commission when certain names and also certain signatures come on a day under certain contracts, odd transactions, and that you will have this power, but even if any of our types will say yes, you have accepted so much and so much and now you want to wash this money and come back to Slovenia with the odd money, with the money that was collected for us in 2013. Because if I hadn't been picked up at the time, believe me, today would have been another Switzerland for free, we wouldn't have talked about how much the minimum wage would be. I want this committee to do its job well and come on a day's notice. Above all, I want there to be some sanctions to be some sort of lawsuits. And finally, I want what all Slovenians want to come back to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the word, and you're being followed by a mag. Andrej Reich, prepare yourself for Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! The fact is that this Commission of Inquiry, which is now being set up and which has the support of the entire National Assembly, would not in fact be necessary if all the other authorities in charge in this country were to carry out certain tasks, we were talking about police, investigative judges, courts in general, if these authorities were to do their part. For the report prepared by the Commission of Inquiry in its previous mandate, which dealt with the banks, deals in essence with this subject, which will now continue through the investigation of the work of the bad bank. But most of the facts are already revealed, also transmitted to these authorities. And I think that what we should be concerned about is that, practically, the damage to property in this country is not actually caused by those who are responsible. On the other hand, we have cases where for 200 euros in the case of some infringements in the technical inspections of a person closes for three or five years, in which case we have billions of cases that are known to be specific, and in fact nothing happens, and we are forced again in the National Assembly to set up an investigative commission that will investigate these violations and these anomalies, probably even some concrete findings, passed on to the authorities that have to carry it out, as it is necessary to know, the National Assembly is not a court, cannot process anyone, and from there we will wait again in some way to see what happens. These delays in the non-implementation of reports to be adopted in the National Assembly are, in my view, far too much. All of you have pointed out the facts that have been made very often in connection with these transfers in practice, rules that have been written down in documents held by a bad bank have been broken, and many things have been written by the Court of Auditors regarding these violations. And as I said, in the end, once again, a political body must do some kind of investigation and alert the authorities that are competent to process these things in the end, and that what we all want brings those who are violating before the time of justice and, on the other hand, to return the assets back to the country's budget. If this commission adds anything and contributes, we will probably all be happy and I support it myself in this direction. Once again, I would like to point out that most of these documents in this investigative committee dealing with banks in the past mandate have already been detected, and most of them have also been made public in the documents and have also been handed over to the investigating authorities. For a large number of bank credits, which were in a non-transparent way not to say anything worse, already transferred to the DUTB, where both names and subscribers of individual transfers are known. I want this investigative committee to do a good job. Above all, I believe that in the end, it will lead to concrete decisions and concrete decisions, which will, of course, send back to the other authorities which will have to do so, but at that point we will again be likely to face a dilemma whether this will be done or not. And if, after all, the whole national assembly starts to do things that are being taken up in the National Assembly, there is likely to be something better. Otherwise, this report by the Commission, which is likely to be very concretely still only the conclusion of the Commission, will not bring some concrete action in the field of convictions of these cases and, finally, what we all want is that a certain part of this property can be returned to the budget or to the budgets of those banks or other institutions which have been damaged through these irregularities. I look forward to a good harvest, and I wish this committee a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Andrej Reich and as the last submitted prepare for Dr. Ange Logar, Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. I just want to clarify my position further. As I have already said, the aim was to set up a bad bank to save banks from failing by transferring their bad claims to a bad bank. These transactions would then be dealt with by the Bank and would try to recover the most from them and thereby recover the funds that the State has invested and spent in the resolution of these banks. And that is why the operation of a bad bank has been extended so that these transactions can be properly elevated so that they can withstand the most for the country. The Commission, which we will set up, will examine whether this has been achieved. I also agree that the actions taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek were those that pulled Slovenia out of the crisis. The Bank Claims Management Company must now do its job, at least to recover the funds that we have invested at the time to save the banks and thus our economy and to preserve our sovereignty. It's expected to be a bad bank by the end of the day, I think it's 31. 12. 2022, the State's contribution back or that the Bank will be able to return more than we have invested on the basis of our economic growth achieved by the actions of the government of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you. These last words are to be written down and remembered, namely, it was said by the Alenka Bratušek Group that the funds earmarked for the DUTB would be reimbursed at the end of 2022. That is when the government's mandate is about to expire, so it will be interesting to keep this promise alive as well. First of all, there is only one fact about the loans that were granted to Slovenian banks. The 5 billion that were drawn from Slovenian banks were actually exhausted. Five billion dollars went into some accounts. That money didn't go away. That money's out there. The insurance that banks had for these companies has disappeared. In short, those who took the credit received the money and were not harmed. We're damaged, first they were banks, then we're taxpayers who paid for it. This must be remembered because we all hear too many times this blurring of this story, when, the economic crisis, the property has collapsed and so on and those companies have also been killed. That money was drawn from banks and that money ended up in some accounts. If you go to see the net cash flow from Slovenia to the tax oasis, i.e. the outflow of Slovenia minus the inflow, you will find that this amount is about the same as the hole created in the Slovenian banking system. So, this money went out of the country into tax havens, the trail behind this money got lost more or less, but it didn't come back, it didn't come back to the banks. And that's what we ended up paying for. That's why we had a bank hole, so we had an investigative commission on the banking system, so today we have a debate on the establishment of an investigative commission to determine responsibility for the operation of a bad bank, i.e. DUTB. Today is essentially a time, period, or day of big words. I have now heard very inspiring opinions and views from members of the parliamentary groups and general support for the work of this investigative commission. Today it is possible to share big words, because then it will be crucial what will happen after the Commission of Inquiry starts its work, when it comes to some conclusions, when it investigates and when it adopts a report. At that time, there will be an expression of the authenticity of these great words spoken here today. I'll explain why. Before that, colleague Han was disgusted in the introduction. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I ask for peace? Can you please go out and talk? When colleague Han explained the deleted aberrations in the construction of Nokturno’s dwellings, the Court of Celovsk, he rightly pointed out the injustice that had taken place to the contractors. The proposaler, Mr Vrtovec, also pointed out this. I agree with Mr Han – I hope he represents the opinion of the SD Group – and I agree with the proposaler – I believe and I know that he represents the opinion of the New Slovenia Group – but there is now one problem. Last week we had a Committee on Finance where the quarterly report on the functioning of the DUTB was considered. Do you know that Mr. Dragonja is in favour of DUTB, but you know that the Minister of Finance is in favour of DUTB, and he has rejected all these calls with this remark that the DUTB is a service or an institution which must receive reimbursement? And for the Minister of Finance, this story is over. Although the Commission’s three public financial oversight sessions were on this subject, although the conclusions were that something must be done in this area, the Ministry of Finance is simply saying that the DUTB is working properly. And at that meeting of the Finance Committee, unfortunately, none of the SDs came forward, I'm afraid. So when we share big words here at the time of the establishment of this commission of inquiry, it is likely that such discourse or those views should be advocated on all working bodies. Earlier, it was mentioned that no one knows at what cost, say, the York Fund was buying claims from DUTB, and I think my colleague Vrtovec mentioned that even SDH did not know. Do you know what's even more absurd? Neither SDH nor anyone else knows who York is, who is this postal mailbox that owns a large part, say, of the now-hot Slovenian tourism. That the government wants to centralise Slovenian tourism in one company has a fund, which is 42% of the owner of an important participant in this, but neither knows the leadership of SDH nor the supervisory board of SDH, who is behind York. And he sold that claim. Does that seem normal to you? For me, I'm sorry, but it's totally rude for the investigation committee to figure out who's behind York. So if DUTB sold to someone for whom he didn't know who he sold it to, and if SDH peacefully accepts that York is a society that doesn't know who it belongs to, who owns it, it has a big part of Slovenian silver that the government now wants back, see, it's a slight comedy of confusion. Earlier, colleague Muršič said that such people who had participated in these proceedings should no longer be involved. I mentioned a case earlier, KB1909, High Representative, director of one of the sectors in this company, is today a consultant at the DUTB. Is that acceptable? I don't think it's acceptable. Earlier, as colleague Han mentioned in relation to these deleted oratorages, the head of the credit committee who promised to erase the sealing in those apartments in Tjelovské dvor, Nokturnno, Marko Jaklič [[Lapsus linguae. Dr. Ange Logar says Marko Jaklič instead of Marko Jazbec, in the following session he apologizes for the lapsus.]] . So who proposed Mark Jazbec as SDH's boss? The government of Mira Cerar. Then who, after leaving SDH, unanimously appointed him to the Sava Re para-state company? Yes, SDH, which is the largest, only individual owner of this company. How, then, does Mrs Muršič allow persons who have been responsible and have participated in these works, which are now also taking place at the DUTB, to sit in parastatal societies? Let me just mention that Mr Jazbec's wife is the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. This circle is a little too close to shake in the age of big words, how all this matters, how good it is, how we support all this. You know, it shows up in action. That's when you have to solve the matter when you have the power, the leverage. And that, let's say, is SD because it's in the government. Mrs Muršič said earlier that she was appalled that the Court of Auditors’ findings had not been taken into account. This was then also said by Mrs Udovč and indirectly also by Mrs Gregorič from SMC. See, all three representatives come from parties that participated in the government when this opinion was issued by the Court of Auditors. Mrs Gregorič was a consultant to the Prime Minister. So allow me a little doubt in this frankness of these words as to how all of this needs to be resolved. I, too, am appalled that what the Court of Auditors found did nothing. That's unacceptable. I would like to ask, say, colleague Muršič has already been a Member in the previous term, how many questions have she raised on this issue, how many KNJF calls, the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, on this subject, how many extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. None. But it's unacceptable. We all agree that it's unacceptable. How many governments did the SD participate in at this time? Three o'clock. SMC in two. Here is the question of this responsibility to say something in the hall, but when something has to be taken or done, there is no solution. More recently, Comrade Krivec pointed out the dissonance of the activities of Slovenian courts, for 200 euro of a bribe in the 5 years of technical examinations, for the millions of damages in the illegal recapitalisation of Probanka Romana Payenk was sentenced, conditionally sentenced. There was an entrepreneur who had to give a million euros, who had been cheated, who had lost a million euros so that it could meet the criteria of the Bank of Slovenia, and everyone knew that, it was conditionally condemned. Is that right? But you know what happens now? Now this entrepreneur is going to go to DUTB and he's going to say, look, the guilt has been proven, although I don't know why she's paroled, obviously these criteria in the Maribor court, so it's my fault, and now I'm asking the DUTB to pay me back. And it's only right that he's going to demand it. But you know what that means? To pay the taxpayers an extra million. But you know why? Since the government of Mira Cerar DUTB and Factor Bank have joined the DUTB, it should not have been because it was a controlled liquidation that should have been completed on the day the controlled liquidation was completed. And there was again the Dragon Method, which convinced us that it was all right. Today we know this isn't right. Today, in that report that we discussed last week in the Committee on Finance, we have found that, already under this heading, €80 million is damage to DUTB's capital and that there will be additional damage precisely due to these resulting links because the legal legacy has been transferred to DUTB. See, that's the policy when you make decisions, and then the taxpayers pay for it. And once again, allow me to question the credibility of these statements of yours when you resent and at the same time support the establishment of this commission of inquiry. The case of money laundering in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, see here, I have shown concretely that the current head of the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has deceived the foreign public in one matter. Here we were in the National Assembly and Mr Male, still the chairman of this office. Can you explain to me how this is possible? Explain to me how it is possible to detect irregularities, show them, prove them, and you confirm them, and then do nothing to those who have levers. Tell me how that's possible. I just don't get it. In doing so, I stress that you are taking responsibility for yourself. We also talked about some of the wrong bridging loans granted by Nova Ljubljanska Banka, where individuals received millions and fewer. Banka Slovenije banned this product from New Ljubljana Bank because it was too risky and inconsistent with banking regulation, but the bank still shared it for a while. Do you know that the person who received this loan is in this reference? So let me doubt the great words I hear today. It is true, however, that the establishment of this commission of inquiry will offer an opportunity to deny this crime so far, so that from now on you will start working. I sincerely hope and believe that you will, even though past practice convinces me of the opposite. In fact, see also the Commission of Inquiry on the Banking System has proposed some legislative changes, changes in procedural legislation in the field of criminal proceedings and the establishment of a specialised law enforcement court. Then why did you vote against it in the SMC and in the SD against it, against creation? The New Slovenia parliamentary group has proposed these legislative changes because nobody else has, twice, and you have voted against it twice. All of you have made a commitment on your chest to how to identify the need to amend legislation and how we must then accept it. You made a commitment in the National Assembly to the previous Commission of Inquiry, but then you did not change the legislation. I would like to know what you will do in the LMŠ when this proposal from the Commission of Inquiry to amend this area of legislation, namely the establishment of a specialised court and the amendment of procedural legislation in criminal matters, will come to the National Assembly. Will you do the same? Would you mind? Because if you are, then it is really pointless for investigative commissions to take certain decisions, which then have confirmation in the National Assembly, and then the current coalition denies all these conclusions. You know, action-reaction, if we make a decision, we have to do it. I hope for the serious purpose of all those who will participate in this commission of inquiry, that, for the first time, the matters will come to a bottom, the others who will not be here in the National Assembly, but will follow the findings of these investigative commissions and will also find out what the investigative commission will find, with their pressure on the splash on this panel, also confirm the direction of changes in the normative basis. Once again, there's a lot of work to be done before the commission of inquiry. I wish her much success. Like I said, and the rest of you, it won't stay at the level of words, but that those words will then be poured into action.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the floor, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, as a representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you, President. Just as useful today's debate is one fresh news: Slovenia remains the country with the highest share of bad loans, where the lender is a country, among all Member States of the European Union. According to Eurostat data, in 2017, poor loans in Slovenia accounted for 4% of GDP. We're still gonna have to deal with this. In past discussions, only one thing has been said, namely that a certain part has already been carried out, including investigations by the DUTB in the Logar Investigation Commission. Here. In a certain part, the commission of inquiry has touched on the transfer, but you should know that that investigative commission had a mandate, if I am wrong, since April, March 2015, and events in the DUTB are happening, I tell you, today, yesterday, things are current and acute. It's not just the back stories, it's the things that happened yesterday. Public interest has been expressed somewhere, but it is a public interest. Of course, it is a public interest to set up this commission of inquiry. More than one case suggests the possibility that there were out-of-institutional political decisions that had an impact on the functioning of the DUTB. Therefore, it is a public interest to establish a political responsibility for the establishment of the DUTB system and this DUTB certainly raises doubts about the existence of irregularities and political responsibility for the self-government of the DUTB. The government, I repeat, is the Assembly of the Banking Company. Come in. Public interest. Did DUTB take into account the customer verification of claims? It's a public interest. Was this all about our existing legislation? Come in. According to what methodology were the prices of the claims sold calculated? To what extent did the original debtors through the related persons come to the purchase of their property? Of course, that's why it's a public interest. It is certainly in the public interest to determine whether the claims have been sold in an effective manner, that is, by reaching the best possible ransom. It is also in the public interest to determine whether the transfer of claims between DUTB and SDH was transparent and carried out in such a way as to establish an optimum state of the State’s public financial position. Now, one thing, mentioned was the transfer of claims, how they were transferred and that some had no need to be transferred. However, I have other cases, namely that some claims were transferred only so that these companies would then be relieved of their obligations. But it is not necessary to talk about all the cases here today, because this is not the goal of today's debate, but it hurts the fact that then certain funds have jumped in when these companies were transferred by certain discounts, that they themselves have unloaded themselves, that then these same people remain in these functions and are slowly buying their assets through funds. The York Fund was mentioned and one thing sitting in the York Fund. We really don't know. But a few people are collapsing, the same people are sitting in York or in this Slovenian version of the York Fund, talking about the Elements company, the same people who were previously involved, the employees of the same companies that agreed on the bad bank. We know about one person, but that's not all. According to York, one person sitting on the website, who is at the same time a member of the Board of the Competition Agency, a member of the AVK Council, for the protection of competition, is at the same time one of the staff of the York Fund buying claims here. Yeah, I think that's a really good choice. What would you say? Who named him there? Next, I would like to appeal to the Slovenian media. In the past, Slovenian media have been effective in disclosing stories at the DUTB. I hope that's the way it's gonna be in the future. Imre Baloh, for example, was one of those who was in the Slovenian media at the closed session of their DUBT legal committee after the footage came out, it was known, said: “We must concentrate on two, three enemies and start digging through their past.” This was then published by the media, these recordings from their internal sessions. But attention, another thing from these closed sessions, which the media published, was very afraid of the Court of Auditors. Among other things, Mr Simoneti said: “We had to give almost 100% of all data on our work and on our operation. But we have little to show for 2014.” It's not like that. He asked himself. Mr Simoneti said: "In the future, we must be more careful because the Court of Auditors is coming again. They will focus on implementation, how we manage specific cases, bad loans." Next he says: “They will look at the documents if we do not sell the claim to the original debtors. We must prepare at least for 2015, because for 2014 we are certainly dead, none of which exists for 2014. Who named Mr. Simonetti there? Politics kept him going. Politics set him up as the head of the board of directors. Mr Simoneti further says: “I really do not know how to deal with this invasion of the Court of Auditors.” So if someone's investigating you or controlling your work, you call it an invasion. And then another member says, there is Mr. Shirovnik: "How to stop this invasion? This has to be studied a little, it's not a simple matter, I'm afraid of it a little, they'll start cutting." This has already been published in public, so I am speaking now. Or Mr. Simonetti goes on to say, "Now they'll go to the case." I mean, individual cases do. “When they start to judge cases, what is legal and what is not, this is one area that no one understands in Slovenia.” Now you tell me if we are such a fool that we do not understand in this country what is legal and what is not. So in a bad bank, they had double standards, otherwise they explained what was legal and what was not. But in 2015, ladies and gentlemen, in this National Assembly, we had an extraordinary session on the theme of the recruitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the DUTB. At this extraordinary meeting, I think that Mr Logar and I have been very active, and we have also shaved off the appointment of Mr Simoneti as head of the DUTB, namely, Mr Simoneti was the chosen one who was the head of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank during the period 2009-2012, in a period when the New Ljubljana Bank, as it had participated, should have acted differently, but I do not claim that it was at the time, even then the credits have been reprogrammed and so on and has been involved in many procedures. [[…]] I'm talking about the same people that politics has set up. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just one case. If they said that they are dead for 2014, I think that they should be afraid of these investigative commissions, that we must give clear signals, that we will seriously investigate them, and that the footage that the media now have, that it will not be the only recordings, that there are others, if they recorded 10 times, have probably always been recorded. However, I believe and once again I appeal that the Commission of Inquiry should receive these documents. Don't let anyone use illegal acts of erasure. There are probably many of you or the viewers and the viewers here wondering, because they are talking about the National Assembly again, they will have a good time and investigate again, and in the end they will find nothing. We'll hear that at home when we get home. Okay, epilogue. We don't have foxes in the National Assembly, we don't have a stick to force these people to answer criminally and indemnity. However, the appeal to the authorities to listen to the seriousness of these treatments that we have is crucial. For I agree with what has been said in one of the views that if the Commission of Inquiry does its work, but no one will still, because of the poor functioning of the law enforcement authorities or the courts, do not answer, then another will have to be investigated in the next term. Indeed, the systemic problem and the final epilogue will be the fact that the investigative commission will hand over the documentation to the secret and public authorities in pursuit of the suspicions of criminal services and will also listen to the impact of the amendment of the legislation. Here we are again in this hall in this room. Twice, yes, twice in the previous term, we have tabled a proposal to amend legislation, to establish a specialised state prosecutor's office, a special group of prosecutors to prosecute bank criminals, and to establish a special specialised section of the banking criminal court. Do you know what happened? In the final and earlier interim report of the Logar Commission, this National Assembly, with all its votes, adopted the Commission's proposal to set up a court for banking crime and prosecution. This is also what the prosecutors suggested to us, they said, and the police say that they bring all things to an end, they give everything to the judges, but they question the experience, the knowledge and so on of the judges, because in the morning they deal with heated matters, and in the afternoon they have heavy bank cases, heavy bank cases. And I understand that the same judge cannot deal with these two things equally, equally, simultaneously. But look at the fraction, and this same National Assembly didn't support this proposal, and it could. So the final epilogue must be that someone responsible for the crimes committed in the context of the operation of a bad bank is responsible for both criminal and indemnity. It's not about 10 years ago. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That's it. And the media have already identified many contentious situations, many controversial issues, and the task of the commission of inquiry is to upgrade all the documentation and obtain documents. I hope that we will have no trouble here from a bad bank, from banks, from banks, from Slovenia and from other institutions, listening to the parliamentary investigative commission, and not playing blinding, what they can send to the National Assembly, what not, that we will not deal with the first year only with what happened in the two investigative commissions on the banking system in the past, in Logarje and in Pogačnik. And it's the same people, the same judges will decide the same things again. I hope they're so sane on the DUTB that they won't agree to this game. And if anyone can be burdened, well, let it be the party of Marjan Šarc, given that you are saying "new generation in politics" that it has come. We have scissors and canvas in the National Assembly to prevent this and that DUTB also cooperates with the commission of inquiry, as the new DUB leadership has this option. Thank you very much for your discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I was wondering, do you have a replica, Dr. Ange Logar? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you can only have a replica right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague's agreement. Then, in the second part, I would just apologize to the respected Mark Jaklič, whom I mistakenly named in this group in my performance. I think I'm Mark Badger. So long as I make an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u51	With this, honourable Members, I find that you have all been given the floor. At the same time, I note that the time declared for discussion has not yet expired. And I ask, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, does anyone else wish to discuss or share time? Yeah, I see a wish. We're starting to share time. Here you go. Thank you very much. We've got two reports. Mr. Franz Kramar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! What can I say? In fact, I'm pleasantly surprised that this topic has reached this point in order to set up an investigative commission for a bad bank. Today it was mentioned that there were 3 reforms, so-called, in Slovenia, where the former social property was accepted. First they were certificates, then they were tycoon purchases, and now finally they're a bad bank. It is my belief that it is behind all this that the same structure of people, that in fact many things are known publicly, that unfortunately the law enforcement authorities, I must say here, have not done their job so far, that many of them have remained unpunished from the period of certificates, as well as from the period of tycoon acquisitions. I hope that this Commission will actually do its work of quality and quality and will actually provide a good basis for those law enforcement bodies, which must also, on the basis of the investigative commission that was in the previous mandate, Mr Logar, have the results, the results of the competent authorities, who must act in such cases and make an epilogue. However, the epilogue can only be one way to punish them, of course, to hold them accountable for their actions and to let citizens and citizens know that there is a rule of law in this country, that anyone who violates the law should also be punished. And I think it would be a really good time for this signal from Slovenia and the Slovenians to get it. We must be aware that the situation in the country is not ideal for many workers to work for a minimum wage, that income from various activities is lower, especially at the expense of the fact that, in the past, it has been said that it has been muddy with the former social property that skilled money-eaters or managers have been able to get on their way and thus have abnormally enriched. I say, I have the hope of the law enforcement authorities that they will actually finally begin to prosecute this economic crime, which, in my opinion, is basically what raises or lowers the Slovenian and Slovenian standards. I therefore welcome the establishment of this commission, and I really wish it a happy way, and I hope that those who deserve to come before the judge will also come and answer for their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last one at this point, you have the word, Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I hope that the epilogue of this commission will also be a systemic problem that we all have together. Obviously, as a country through our authorities, I would also say that governments, executive authorities, we, as legislators here on the one hand, do not know how well to manage and control the assets we have in common. I hope that the result will be that we will also look for guidelines for a systemic solution to this issue. We have the problem of managing SDH all the time, with our state holding company, with the compensation capital fund, had it before the development fund, we also have a problem with public agencies, we also have a problem with economic public services. We all know how much the cost of the municipal companies of the rice pipeline goes down in our country over the years. They set up beautiful houses and share beautiful wages. Things are just getting out of hand with us, and I think it's a systemic problem, and we're going to be able to do that. On the other hand, today we also heard words from a colleague Dimic, who spoke about a Swiss woman who could be Switzerland, which is difficult, but it was also spoken in a socialist picture used to be in Slovenia. We can't talk so bad about those times. I also worked and created in those days, our fathers, too, our nonns and nons, were able to work and created among others the Ljubljana Bank, which was a strong bank, which was prominent in this space, was able to operate, and good banking personnel came from this bank. Then we broke this bank on the basis of whisperers, how to privatize, how to make, how to break into twelve pieces, and then we mismanaged those pieces. Today the old bankers say that no bank is running a real banker, that we lost these people. I don't know. We did this from the bank. And then we're from the bank on this privatisation, as was already done through the certificates, and what is now being done with the sale of this property by this bad bank of ours. Where did we bring the stuff? I always have a heartache, on the shore where I worked, I also put up the first five-star hotel in the Slovenian space and then it was taken over by financiers, a management company, and ended up with a few million, we put a lot more money in it, they sold it to – who? Some Croats who can't even manage it. I don't know how this can happen. We lost brands, big, beautiful, like Barcaffe from Drugs and Drugs, Cimos went, we sold the bank to Italians. We've done a lot of things like that, I don't know, I don't understand. And back then, economic growth was much higher than it is now, so let's not look back. I'm just finding out how I know this world that we fell into the financial industry mill, because our privatisation was also financial. And this mill is grinding us, this mill is killing the peripheral banks. This one's real. Give us the banks. Do you know what kind of money the banks live on and what they do? From ours, from us people. And the Slovenians we were good savers and we're still - out of this money they make money and then carry this money out. I think this committee is a great thing. We've been very united about this, and I think there are unnecessary attacks, even on our client, as well as on others who are willing to cooperate here and work with us. So I would also ask some designers on the other side, the opposition not to attack, because if we want to do something together, we need to pull together. There's something else I'd like to touch, which is a more sensitive topic. I also worked downstairs, we had blackmail problems, because I was in the inn at the time, and the private guests complained that they were not doing well. You know, we shut down the regional police, now we've brought them back in. They were out of control. And what else did we do? We've made our Owl completely toothless. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u55	Your Honor, you've been out of line for 15 seconds, and the automatics have removed your microphone. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, and I therefore find that the Parliamentary Chamber ordered a parliamentary inquiry to establish and assess the factual situation for the determination of the political liability of the holders of public functions on the grounds that they suspected, directly or indirectly, that they had an impact on the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia, the Government, the National Assembly, other State bodies and on the decisions of other domestic and foreign legal persons relating to the transfer, purchase, sale and management of the claim of the banks or other assets of the DUTB. The contents of the parliamentary inquiry request are defined in the record of the requirement of 28 January 2019 and in the act determining the parliamentary investigation of 28 January 2019 which you received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of the parliamentary inquiry order and to forward it as soon as possible to the Council. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal to write down an advisory referendum on the defence of migration. A group of 29 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec submitted a proposal for a referendum to be considered by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Branku Grims for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u56	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! The State of Slovenia was created on the basis of the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. The right of the people to self-determination stems from the basic Charter of the United Nations and is enshrined in a number of international legal acts. In Slovenia it is the very foundation of the constitutional system of the Republic of Slovenia, it is enshrined in the Basic Constitutional Charter. Slovenia was therefore created on the basis of the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. And this right must be used again, because it is rare to open up themes that are as crucial in the long term for an individual, for a country, for a nation as a whole, as the theme of mass migration that we have witnessed in recent years. The culmination of this is the so-called Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration or the Marrakesh Agreement, as we popularly call it, an act with a very misleading name, but a few words later. If we want to prove that Slovenia is still based on the same democratic foundations, it is right that, at the time when a judgment is made on whether Slovenia will go in the direction of Evrabia, it has an open door for all migrants, gives everything to migrants or gives priority to its Slovenian people, so that this fundamental decision is left to the Slovenian people. Because this act itself, the Marrakesh Agreement is popular or, if you want, the Global Agreement on Safe and Managed Migration has been adopted in a way that questions its validity. Ladies and gentlemen, his text was decided by the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar, who was then in resignation and had the right to decide only on current matters which are necessary, but not on something so long-term. In view of the fact that the matter is even worse under Article 3 of the Law on Foreign Affairs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should be informed, at the very least, of the working body of the National Assembly responsible for foreign policy, i.e. the Foreign Policy Committee. He never was! It was therefore a direct violation of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore, at least for myself, I say that I will never agree to say that this Marrakesh agreement or, if you want, a global compact is legally accepted and that it binds me or my country to anything. Ladies and gentlemen, even worse, when we had the new ministers' hearings, some have said publicly that they do not understand foreign languages. When the government decided on this agreement, it was not even available for an informal translation of this text, it is said that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Marjan Sarca, decided on something they did not understand at all. And if an act is adopted in an obviously unfair, unconstitutional and illegal way, it cannot be enforced. Nevertheless, this government acted as if it were all right and went to confirm it. A man would be happy to congratulate Mr. Charles or Mr. Cerar, when they went to Marrakech, what was it like to ask them, but we can't ask them because they weren't there. They sent a third-class official. Why? Because they themselves know that this act is shameful, that it brings terrible problems, problems and that it is destined for the Republic of Slovenia. By not going there to paint, of course, they showed it more than clearly themselves. If anyone doubts that an act has been adopted illegally, an official translation should be available for each such act, since in Slovenia we have the Law on the Use of Slovenian. All state authorities must operate in Slovenian. In doing so, however, some ministers themselves say that they do not even know the foreign language, but it is all the more tragic. They decide the fate of the Slovenian nation, the Slovenian state, without even understanding the text they decide on. The act itself has a misleading name – a global agreement. What global agreement? It was abandoned by some of the most important countries, led by the United States of America, that all our northern neighbours have resigned, Austria has resigned, Hungary has resigned, Italy has resigned, and Slovenia is essentially a lonely island that gives the wrong signal to migrants. Because it certainly means confirming a global agreement or a Marrakesh treaty, if you want, a false signal, a signal to migrants that they are welcome here: “Come all, the border is open”. There can be no slightest speech here on a global level. Countries still deviate from this agreement, such as Brazil's last. There the new right - hand government simply made a promise to withdraw immediately. And the first day she announced it, she kept her word. This is said not to say that it is impossible to withdraw from this agreement, of course, as it has always been. The question of how to leave this decision to the people is clear. Whoever is a Democrat, who is worthy of the function performed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is aware of what the constitutional norm means to have power of the people, and what that fundamental constitutional basis for the creation of a independent Slovenia means, the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination, expressed at the referendum, on the plebiscite of Slovenia's independence. Now the story repeats itself. In view of the current legal arrangements, a consultative referendum can be described. Such a referendum is justified because, on the basis of this global agreement or the Marrakesh Treaty, a number of laws and other legal solutions based on it will be adopted in the National Assembly. This is said to be matters that are obviously within the jurisdiction and will be under the jurisdiction, always, of the National Assembly. On the other hand, of course, this makes sense only with the advance and unequivocal commitment that such a decision will also be respected. In Slovenia, unfortunately, there has been a practice that referendum decisions have often been made and it has been forgotten that Slovenia is based on a referendum, on a plebiscite. And that's why today's referendum doesn't have the reputation that people should have. This is the only form of an effective restriction of any authority. When people make decisions directly. This was also a fundamental principle when we wrote the Slovenian Constitution. Therefore, the Slovenian Constitution places direct decision-making on the people first, only then follows indirectly through the principle of power-sharing and so on. Now it's just a question of who is the Democrat and who isn't. He who is a Democrat will gladly leave it to the people because it is an extremely important civilisation decision. What is the problem with this global agreement? It lays down manipulation and lies. It comes from the assumption that all migrations are welcome, that they are a permanent source, as it says, of prosperity, development and so on. This is true, of course, as long as these migrations are individual as long as they are natural. What we have witnessed in the past decades, and what people have understood today as migration up to a few years ago, when someone met someone abroad, got married, brought me here or he stayed there or someone went to work abroad, either for a shorter period or for longer. These were, in fact, these migrations, which, as stated in this compact, have enriched an individual country and made it possible to live a normal life. Many migrations, illegal mass migrations, which are now being legalised through this act, are something else. Many migrations throughout the country have brought nothing but the destruction of individual civilizations, the destruction of countries, destruction, destruction, war, death. They never brought anything else in history. And because of this, this manipulation is so rudely misleading and, of course, also fatal. And this was also seen in the debates we had many times when the term migration was used for one, but in fact it was something completely different. There is also very clear evidence of what mass migration brings. Milton Friedman, Nobel laureate for the economy, wrote many years ago: “You have unlimited migration or you have a secure state of prosperity”. At the same time, you cannot have a state of social welfare, a state of prosperity and an open border with mass migration. Either you have one or you have another. But it's impossible for both of us. Simply put, if you import Africa, that doesn't mean you're going to Europeanise Africa, but you're going to make Europe Africa. If you import a third world, you become a third world. Sweden is unfortunately very clear evidence for this. What does this global agreement really mean? The global agreement formally separates illegal migration from legal and everything else, but in fact it completely equates them, because at least four points then it turns out that they are irrespective of the status of the migrant, regardless of its origin, it is legal or illegal, it has all the same rights, it gets all the same ratings, it can demand anything, in short, it gets everything from the country. And here's the trap of this agreement. This agreement really wants to legalise what has been happening over the last few years, when 530 thousand illegal migrants have thundered across Slovenia, and three times as many other channels into Europe. And those who, at the time, have just abolished one part of the acquis in the European Union and Slovenia, are now trying to back out this cover and cover under the carpet. In fact, this agreement was created by a German intervention through the United Nations, only because they failed to change the so-called Dublin 2. This is now known to everyone. And in the German Parliament, Mrs Merkel made it clear: “The acceptance of this agreement is for us to redistribute this weight”, that is to say our mistake, “to other countries.” [[…]] [[…]] It's in their national interest. That's understandable, logical – isn't it? But why would it be in the Slovenian national interest, and that is impossible to understand – right? And whoever does this, and knowingly exposes his people, loses his wealth, and loses his security, commits treason, ladies and gentlemen. However, if it is to be avoided, it is necessary for the people to be given the opportunity to express themselves, whether it really wants to or wants Slovenia with secure borders, a safe country, a state of prosperity, a state of the Slovenian people, as we have established it. For a global agreement, as it is, means nothing more than the introduction of socialism at global level. Perfect equality for all in decay and poverty. It's a global agreement. Why did the nations really come into existence? In order to defend the borders so that the hordes could no longer go wild beyond the borders, so that people could defend themselves in that area, the individual nations that were formed at that time. You're forgetting that today. Today it's about demagogy and this demagogy is about to be covered by force, so to speak, by censorship. This whole pact is really based on censorship. The public was misled: it is not bound. Oh, come on! What did Boštjan M. Zupančič, Judge of the European Court of Human Rights, President of the Slovenian Constitutional Court, say? “It is either a sign of the stupidity or conscious deception of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The Pact also enforces the censorship of conflicting opinions. A scandal! Boštjan M. Zupančič. In addition to being even more comical, Dr. Cerar, when he advocated this on a committee for international relations or on a committee, spoke a little, admitting why he was going when he said he was committed and that he needed to enforce it, I quote: “that hate speech and everything must be more severely persecuted.” [[…]] It has to be. Yes, what if it's not binding, ladies and gentlemen? A decision will have to be made and it is clear to the people to accept it. We therefore propose a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u57	Mr. Ambassador, you've exceeded your time. Thank you for your introduction. The position of the committee responsible, the Committee on Foreign Policy, as the working body, will be presented by Vice-President Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Foreign Policy Committee considered the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the treatment of migration at its 12th meeting, on 16 January 2019. In the introduction, he is the representative of the proposed mags. Branko Grims presented the reasons and arguments for the submission of that proposal in the supplementary explanation, as he also presented today. Mr Cerar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, agreed further that the issue of migration was a topical and important issue, but he explained in his presentation of the government's rejection opinion that the proposal for an advisory referendum for procedural, legal and substantive reasons was not possible and is not acceptable. He explained that in the UN General Assembly, 152 countries supported the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration, 5 countries opposed, 12 countries abstained and 1 did not vote. He stressed, however, that this was an international act, which was adopted under Article 75 of the Law on Foreign Affairs within the power of the Government. The act is of a non-contractual nature and thus does not impose new international or domestic legal obligations on the State and does not require the issuing of new or amending existing rules. So it's not a decision under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. He added that the proposal for an advisory referendum was also based on the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. He highlighted the problem of coordinated migration management, stressing that the Global Agreement lays down the conditions for the return of irregular migrants, distinguishes between legal and illegal migrations, and that each country has the sovereign right to regulate the issue of legal migration independently. Slovenia also acts in solidarity with regard to migration, taking into account its integration capabilities and maintaining the safety of its citizens. He also drew attention to the populist approach taken to address the issue in question and to the emergence of an enemy speech. Also Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mag. Sandi Churin reiterated that the global agreement is not a legally binding document and that it appropriately addresses the issue of migration. The Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, Nataša Voršič, said that the Institute of the Consultative Referendum intervened in the matter under the competence of the National Assembly, which is also of wider importance to citizens, but the consultation referendum could only be preceded before the National Assembly finally decided on a particular issue. The opinion of voters in such a referendum is not binding, as it is only a political commitment. She said that the proposal for a consultation referendum was legitimately submitted by qualified candidates, but two questions were raised, firstly, whether this matter belonged to the competence of the National Assembly, and secondly, whether the referendum issue was sufficiently clear. The issue relates to the Global Agreement, i.e. to an act whose adoption does not fall within the competence of the National Assembly, and also to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative in Article 28 provides that the National Assembly shall call for an advisory referendum before it finally decides on a specific act which has not yet been tabled in this case. She pointed out that an act with which the National Assembly could deal with the content could only be a recommendation, a declaration, a resolution or a law. The referendum issue must also be clear. It concluded that in this case the issue consists of a statement of an act which is not within the competence of the National Assembly and an interpretation of the content of that. Consequently, it raises doubts and thus cannot be the subject of a call for an advisory referendum. The debate then drew attention to the causes of migration, the situation in the countries of origin, the spread of intolerance and the fear of migrants. On several occasions, however, it was also expressed that the consideration of the proposal for an advisory referendum was also irrelevant in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Some discussers considered that the global agreement did not sufficiently distinguish between legal and illegal migrants, that it contained a questionable mechanism for returning migrants, and that the need to provide sufficient capacity to protect the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, which, as one of the few countries in the neighbourhood, supported a global agreement. Following the conclusion of the discussion under Article 184(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on a proposal for an opinion that a proposal for a consultation referendum on the treatment of migration was appropriate. The Committee did not adopt the opinion by 5 votes to 10, with 10 votes against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and I give the floor first to Mrs Maša Kociper on behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u60	Dear Members and Members! Even within this point, we have been talking as never before about migration. In principle, this is not bad, because migration is clearly one of the most pressing problems of today's moment and also of the European Union, of which Slovenia is also a part. It is an extremely important and topical topic, which, unfortunately, is being misused not only in us but also abroad all too often to raise political points. In such cases, the public is deceived and intimidated, although it has been repeatedly stressed that Slovenia is and remains a safe country and that we do not have Slovenians and all those who live here are afraid of anything. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we advocate a policy that is realistic and responds to the current problems that arise in society and not a policy that fosters intolerance and prejudice. Migration is clearly part of our reality. It's a phenomenon that can't just be suppressed. Even in the past, people have always migrated and always will be. The current problem is even more pressing because in the big area of Africa and neighbouring countries, when people are barely surviving, not only because of wrong policies and economic decisions, but also because of the climate change we all contribute to. Even after the adoption of the Global Agreement on Safe, Legal and Organized Migration, Slovenia retains its sovereignty in this area and can be sovereign in the formulation of its further policy. That is a fact, even though some have repeatedly denied it. The fact is, however, that one country alone, either our own or another, cannot face this complex problem alone. This has been shown by experience in recent years. It is therefore right that Slovenia, together with 152 countries, is a party to this agreement. In fact, it was only five countries, a group of countries in which at least I personally and my Group of Members do not want to be. Solidarity is also part of the European Union and international cooperation. Together, they must ensure safe and orderly migration and in particular regulate the area of return of irregular migrants, which is much more difficult without coordination in the international environment. On the other hand, given that migration cannot be prevented, solidarity with those on a difficult and dangerous path and the protection of fundamental human rights must be maintained. This is very important if the European Union wants to remain synonymous with stability, democracy and the protection of human rights, as it has been so far. Of course, the priority remains to preserve the security of our country and our citizens, but on the other hand it is our duty to help people in distress. And that's all this is about the deal. If I touch it at the end, all I have to do is make a deal. There is no consultation referendum on the treatment of migration, at least in our view, the right legal basis. As provided by law, the National Assembly may call a consultation referendum only on issues of its competence which are of wider importance to citizens. It is true that this is an important issue, but the adoption of a global agreement on migration as a non-contractual act falls within the power of the Government and not within the competence of the National Assembly. Therefore, in our view, the proposal for a referendum does not meet both procedural and substantive assumptions and it is not surprising that the Foreign Policy Committee has taken a decision. When it comes to the protection of human rights, I do not like to talk about money, but the proponents of money and its spending are still working hard to talk, so given that there is no legal basis, the question here is whether it would not make sense to spend these three million euros on something else, for all of which the SDS party in its proposals of laws would often be justified. At the Alenka Bratušek page, we will not give our votes for the invitation to hold an advisory referendum for those reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a consultation referendum on migration with a view to spreading the agenda and presenting the larger problem of migration in relation to Slovenia as they are. With regard to the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration itself, it must be repeatedly reiterated that this is a political document that is not legally binding. This is an agreement on the participation of countries in addressing the causes of migration, preventing irregular migration and trafficking in human beings and promoting safe, orderly and legal migration. The agreement itself was already concluded at the beginning of last December, and now the Group of Members wants to decide on something that has already been concluded and, I repeat, is not legally binding. The proposed referendum on a global agreement does not fall within the competence of the National Assembly. As a result of this fact, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made clear that the question raised cannot be the subject of a call for an advisory referendum. So the Group of Members wants a consultation referendum on something that is not decided at all in the National Assembly. The referendums are intended to consult on the content to be decided in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That's not the case. As a result of this fact, we oppose the signing of a referendum, which will cost taxpayers €3 million, but would serve nothing, except for obtaining the political points of the applicants. The global agreement has been concluded. In this respect, it is not possible to communicate. However, we reiterate that the global agreement will not affect our own national migration policy. Slovenia will also separate its sovereign jurisdiction from its legal and illegal migration status. This agreement is without prejudice to the legislative order of the State or to the constitutional order of the State. For all of this, the Desus Group does not support the proposed referendum on migration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Šiško will present the position for the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, fellows! In the area of immigration and asylum, the Slovenian National Party believes that we Slovenians will have to provide them with everything from their residence, money and other assistance, because we know that they will not want to take the jobs because they do not want to work and rather prepare to fight, invasion. We must also be aware of their way of thinking, which does not coincide with ours. We're for peace and non-violence, and we don't close our eyes to the facts that these migrants are doing. You can see that Slovenians are descendants of slaves because we only worship and we don't know anything when it's necessary. The flow of migrants continues in a subtle and subtle manner. If our loving government were to talk more to those police officers who work at the border and to the surrounding population, I would know that the matter is different than it appears in the public eye. You know what they say: What can't be seen is unknown. And let's all gather to know how to pour pure wine without disguises. According to the 2018 account budget, we can also see how much we spent on an individual migrant. In this place I appeal to you, stop deceiving citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and give money to the Slovenians, to us citizens, to our children, grandchildren and other families behind us, if you want the Slovenian two million people to stay and increase in numbers, but not at the expense of migrants. And that money is for migrants, wiped out and everything else, for exiles, and that's not. It's a shame, you know. Or you will wait for no more, for the average age of exiles is 80 years. If we go any further, the employment agency offered €150,000 at the beginning of October last year for the employment of 33 migrants or unemployed asylum seekers. The latter was provided in the state budget, but we know that this is all from our tax money. They offer training, work, and other things to mention, and our people remain at home for various reasons because migrants are stealing their jobs. If we're looking at the other side, we're looking at the other side, and we're looking at the other side. If different companies are not interested in hiring Slovenians and paying them fair wages, let migrants and other immigrants who are willing to work for a minimum wage. But we must be aware that the Slovenian is a good worker and more productive than anyone else. Finally, I would stress that they should first learn to speak and write Slovenian, not that we are trying to speak them. And also those three million for the consultative referendum — count where you put everything, and no one talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by Mr Jan Mahnic on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! There has already been a lot of talk in this House about both the Marrakesh Declaration and this Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated, Legal Migration, but we still hear different interpretations of this Agreement, so we would like to point out some things that we believe that, given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not enough to go to Marrakesh and applaud this publishing act, we do not support it, but we would like to join some other countries and simply say so. Why not? Because it takes away our sovereignty because it imposes on us what is already a universal goal, some multiculturalism, globalisation, the destruction of everything that smells of European tradition and European and Western culture. And since the Government has not done so, we have simply been forced in the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the National Party, to propose a call for an advisory referendum, which we know is not binding, but we are convinced that the will would be clearly expressed that the plebiscite majority would be against Slovenia joining this agreement. And I'm sure you know that, too. That is why you do not want such a referendum, for you are afraid of the opinion of the people on this subject. In the previous term, there was already a proposal to reject the quota, and you also voted against it at the time. They're migrations, and they will be. We are in favour of legal migration, but we are not in favour of illegal migration. And this agreement does nothing but eliminate illegal migration in a way that makes them legal. And given that migration is practically one of the most important topics everywhere in all security forums, to be recognized as a security issue, it is a security problem, which also raises other problems, including in Slovenia, we should ask people. And on the basis of what people would say, then in all the segments that touch it, we should act on it. And we go directly to the content of what we – just some paragraphs because it is too much and too little time – we see as problematic and why we think that, given that you did not reject it, why you should ask people whether you want it. “With this comprehensive approach, we want to make safe, orderly and legal migration possible in the framework of international cooperation and through the various measures provided for in this agreement, and to reduce the scope and negative consequences of irregular migration. We recognize our mutual responsibility as Member States of the United Nations to respond to the needs and concerns of individual countries regarding migration, and to respect, protect and realize the human rights of all migrants irrespective of their status." The first problem is that you write here “to reduce the negative consequences of irregular migration.” And at the same time, you write, “the duty to respect, protect and realize the human rights of all migrants, regardless of their status.” [[…]] Thus, we must treat everything equally, whether they are legal migrants or illegal migrants. And "to address the negative consequences of irregular migration in a way that illegal migration will be no more." And it goes on to say in this agreement: “We are working to create favourable conditions so that all migrants, with their personal, economic and social abilities, can enrich our communities, enabling them to contribute to sustainable development at local, national, regional and global levels.” [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, tell me, in what country in the European Union have migrants still contributed to prosperity, to improving the economic situation, to enriching culture? And we must empower migrants to become full members of our communities, stress their contribution to society and promote social inclusion and cohesion. Several media headlines: “A migrant in the face of a mass of people with a knife killed his one-year-old daughter in cold blood”, “A migrant who went through Slovenia to Germany killed a 30-year-old man”, “A African migrant in Germany killed one man with a knife, a policeman and a passenger with a knife”, “Germany in shock because a migrant killed his baby and killed his mother”, “A African migrant roasted a dog in a ditch”, “The Moroccan migrants killed a 79-year-old lady in Italy because of 30 euros”, “A migrant from Nigeria killed and slaughtered a 18-year-old Pamela”, “Migrator killed a Swedish humanitarian woman in a migrant home”. Now I read once again what you wrote: “Migratings must be empowered to become full members of our communities, we must stress their contribution to society and promote social inclusion and cohesion.” Ladies and gentlemen, it is likely that all these killings that I have counted, but I have not counted them a single percent, a contribution to the empowerment to become full members of our communities. Surely this is a major contribution to enriching our culture, our identity, to strengthening the European economy, to tolerance, and not least to migrants. By means of a global agreement, we recognise that safe, orderly and legal migrations are for the benefit of all, if supported by good information, they take place in a planned and consensus-based manner. Migration is currently taking place with good information. There is no secret that the Turkish intelligence service took care of this during the period of the most frequent migratory wave for the movement of migrants from Turkey to Greece and beyond on the Turkish coasts. It is in the interests of Europe that Erdogan is weak and sending 10,000 people to Europe every day, making Europe weak. Political opinions, the destabilisation of Europe in political as well as in another sense are breaking down, and its objective is achieved. But what does this good information mean? Information on how they can get social assistance in Europe, how to get to Europe as easily as possible, how to plan a path, they already have it all. But with this agreement, we also officially recognize this and encourage it. You can also write in one of the following chapters: “Decreasing the negative and potentially lasting effects of the detention of migrants by ensuring due process, proportionality, limitations on detention for as short a time as possible, protecting physical and mental integrity and ensuring that, in accordance with international human rights law, at least access to food, basic health care, legal guidance and assistance, information and information and adequate accommodation.” Restraint restrictions for as short a time as possible. Why do you have to write this down? Why should a migrant who comes in an illegal way because you are talking about rights regardless of status, whether it is legal or illegal, be held for the shortest possible time? In one of the chapters, he even says that if only we could avoid detention. Now tell me how you will process an illegal migrant, if not in a way that you will detain him and then process him and find that he is not entitled to apply for asylum and deport him. But it says here that detention, detention or the shortest possible time, but if possible, we commit ourselves to avoiding this measure. The agreement also states: “We commit ourselves to managing national borders in a coordinated manner, promoting bilateral and regional cooperation, ensuring the security of countries, communities and migrants, enabling the safe and legal cross-border movement of people and preventing illegal migration.” Again, the fact that you will prevent illegal migration while at the same time allowing for a safe and legal cross-border movement is clear evidence and our argument that this agreement clears the border between legal and illegal migrations, that all migrations work for legal ones, and that you want all those who come, whether they have the right to remain here under international law or not, to treat them all equally, regardless of how they come, but someone comes on the basis of a visa, but someone comes through Kolpo without any document. These people cannot be treated the same way because those who come with a visa are adapting or, at least in this case, respecting the legal regime of the country where they are coming from. The one who comes illegally is in violation of all of this. Now what has been put in some way, probably through sponsorship and the strong efforts of all left-wing NGOs, is this: “Promoting independent, objective and quality media reporting also online, by raising awareness and educating media professionals on migration issues and vocabulary, by investing in ethical reporting and advertising standards and by ceasing the allocation of public funds or material support to media that systematically promote intolerance, xenophobia, racism and other forms of discrimination against migrants, while fully respecting media freedom”. [[…]] Now, how can you write that you will raise the awareness of the media, how do they report that you will punish those who do not report as you do, who will not report for the benefit of migrants, and at the same time write in the same article, in the same paragraph, that all of this must be done with full respect for media freedom? How can you respect the freedom of the media if you say you have to report positively on migrants, or will you, the first measure that will hit you, you will have to go to some education where you will learn the vocabulary, but if it does not, we will take the financial resources away from you? Discontinuation, allocation of public funds and material support to the media. It's a violation of media freedom, it's a forecast of censorship, and it's a prediction of the abolition of freedom of speech. You have long ago called freedom of speech an hate speech to the politicians of the left political sex. However, the definition of hate speech is nothing more than that we are talking about hate speech when left-wings lack arguments. In short, you will respect the freedom of the media while at the same time, to all the media that report negatively on migrants, take the means, demand the ban on their operation, raise awareness of the education of media professionals – who will do this? Neza Kogovšek Solomon? Is she going to educate the press? Are any other NGOs receiving funds from the Open Society from Soros Foundation? It is wise that Orbán expelled them from Hungary. I was wondering what happened to the addresses I read earlier. Is that a hate speech? But the media will no longer be allowed to report what migrants are doing? I'd like to hear you imagine that today. Discontinuation of the allocation of public funds to those who systematically promote intolerance. I'd really like an answer today, but it's an impatience for you if someone reports the facts. If a Slovenian kills a Slovenian and the media reports it, it's under a black chronicle, it's news, it's written about it, it's talked about. But if the media reports that the migrant who wanted to rob the 73-year-old is 30 euros, he killed her, but is this a systematic promotion of intolerance? Do you think the media can report migrant crimes or can't? This will likely be the systematic spread of intolerance, the promotion of intolerance, xenophobia, racism and so on. In this paragraph, the clear intentions and the Prime Minister of the Government, Marjan Sarec, when he called on state-owned companies not to advertise in the media spreading intolerance, acted exactly in accordance with this paragraph of this global agreement. And as you put migrants before your own citizens, the following paragraph testifys: “We commit ourselves to eliminating, in accordance with international human rights law, all forms of discrimination, condemning and combating racism, acts and manifestations of racism, racial discrimination, violence, xenophobia and related intolerance to all migrants.” You will hunt down citizens, condemn them and write sentences because they do not agree to equal legal and illegal migration, to open the door wide to migrants while at the same time protecting migrants that no one would say anything bad about them, so that no one would report what they are doing. In the past term, we were with the Defence Committee at the border. Twice, I think. We saw what these people left behind when they put up a tent, when they brought them mattresses to sleep there, they urinate in these mattresses, these mattresses were destroyed, they set fire to them, they set fire to tents, these mattresses were torn apart. Is this an authorized reporting? Is it allowed to talk about this? Is it under this agreement that you will all refer to? I think that colleague Brglez has already asked one question from the Members about this or the agreement with Marrakesh. Will that be allowed or not? And onward, "you also undertake to promote, in partnership with all parts of society, an open and evidence-based public debate on migration and migrants, to create a more realistic, humane and creative perception of migration." [[…]] What evidence will you come with? The fact that Ahmad Shami is a better hairdresser than any Lassane or Mitch, but probably not from Mitch, because he's a member of the SMC board, but I'm interested in these arguments. For me, the argument is that the media report daily on the crimes committed by migrants. But that's not an argument for you, that's an hate speech. But the hate speech, as I said before, is when the Lefties run out of arguments. And you write, "the power of migrants and communities to declare all forms of violence against migrants by taking note of available legal means and ensuring that persons who actively participate in acts of hatred against migrants will be held accountable in accordance with national law." [[…]] Yes, I agree that if someone commits a crime against a migrant, he is penalised in accordance with national law, nor does it have to be written in this agreement because each country has its own legal order and we know what crimes are there. If you commit a violent act against a man, it doesn't matter whether he's a citizen of our country, a foreign country, whether he's a migrant, legal or illegal, you're processed and it's right that you are. But I wonder, how do migrants who are actively involved in the commission of hate crimes against the culture of the nation come to? We saw Mary’s statues being smashed in Italy. How they rejected the Red Cross packages because there was a cross up there, not a crescent. We saw what was going on in Brežice. Why isn't that in there? Why is it that only persecution of those who are not for migrants is highlighted, but nothing is said about the fact that there are also migrants who will never submit to the culture in which they come, who will never respect the legal order where they come, who will also be violent against the locals and who are already? I'm not saying everyone, but they are. But why doesn't it say anything in here? It doesn't say anything about that. It's interesting how selectively you refer to polls. Yesterday, when we had a constitutional indictment, I think that many of the coalition parties were exposed to a survey, I don’t know, the last or the last two, “you’re filing a constitutional indictment, look at the polls“ You’re worried about how support is growing. [[…]] It is interesting that they say this in SMC, SAB and Desus, if I borrow the words of Mr Strovs, where proven Marjan Sarec cuts them like salami, supports nothing else, goes up to him, but you rely on polls, and you keep his stand. The second is the SD, which are there somewhere at 15%, but they are before the elections always there at about 20, then the confrontation begins, the Jew goes on three confrontations and they are cemented at 10% and so on. But what about polls where 70, 80% of people define that they don't want this agreement, that they don't want a Marrakesh declaration that they don't want migrant quotas? These polls, let's get these polls on the line. A selective reference to polls, and I have my own opinion on polls, and we know what they are. But if you referred to polls yesterday, I'm counting on you to do it today. And that you will show surveys where 70, 80, 85% of people oppose migration. Let's be consistent! I really don't understand why left-wing people hate their own nation and their own race. Everything that's domestic, everything that's indigenous, what's national, is bad, everything that comes foreign, that's something. To mass migration and the culture of migrants, by undermining indigenous national cultures, you call it multiculturalism. The general collapse of the values of the indigenous people, the deliberate attack on its traditional culture, the attack on traditional families, you call progress, progressiveity, globalization. Every rebellion of those who are proud to belong to a nation and those who oppose your perverse practices is called fascism, all in accordance with an agreement that your Secretary of State has extended to him in Marrakesh. I can tell you that we don't intend to adapt to strangers, never to them, never to them, and never to them. Anyone who comes to us in a legal way that comes to us in good faith is happy. Anyone who contributes to our economy, which enriches our culture, which is a strong member of our society, we are happy. Of course, everything within the limits of normal and as much as a country can. We expect you to adapt to our culture. But the problem is that those who have come legally from third countries, especially those who have come illegally, do not want assimilation, integration is unsuccessful, so we are witnessing, not just in major European cities, but elsewhere, how they start imposing their own culture. And someone who is going to be tried or brought before an investigative judge or who is going to be prosecuted because he has committed a crime will be able to automatically refer to this agreement. He will say, look, because you said that we would empower local communities, that you must respect where we come from, our traditions, our culture, our values. It doesn't work together. And the only response to multiculturalism, for which German Chancellor Angela Merkel was also a chancellor with 60.70 percent support, almost 50 percent of the support of her CDU party, said that multiculturalism was dead. And the only response to multiculturalism is ethnopluralism, where we respect our own culture and where we respect other cultures, but we know where it fits. Never, never, will these people who come to us now adjust to us because we have nothing in common. We have no common identity, we have no common faith, we have no common history, we have nothing in common. They come because they want to enjoy the well-being and the fruits of the social states they can get in Europe. And that's the main reason. We can be critical of ourselves what has been happening for the last 10, 20 years, what we have done ourselves in these countries, which are now so-called failed states. But we can't take the feeling of historical guilt for things that happened 70 years ago or more. To remember, to remind ourselves that it will never happen again, but we cannot be so suicidally inclined to our own culture, to our own Europe, hundreds of millions of dead have been brought to us today, and we want to reject all of this by signing such agreements and by inviting cultures into our environment where they do not belong. And the only instrument to resist this because the government does not want to is a referendum where citizens and citizens can express what they want. And the suppression of patriotism, the incrimination of patriotism, pride for your own people, religion, culture, tradition, and, on the other hand, acceptance of migrants, colleagues and colleagues will not save you from historical guilt, those who feel it, not us, not the Germans or any other nation. However, we will be guilty in 40, 50, 60 years, some will not be here or in this world anymore, but probably those who may still be, but we will remember how we voted back then, what we had already advocated in Parliament when your descendants asked you, were you for it, were you inviting migrants, or were you for border protection. Two hundred miles [300 km], a good 270 - mile [270 km] fence was built by Hungary. They don't have a problem. If those 120 million Euros we gave for illegal migration in 2015 or 2016 were given to me for effective border fences, not panels, not wires, but fences, such as they seem to be, such as the sea, which effectively prevents illegal migration, we would not have these problems today. And that would be some kind of security investment. But you are concerned about what the media, the media, which are owned or controlled by NGOs, various sponsors, financiers who are in the interest of as much multiculturalism as possible, in their interest that Europe, as it is now, is failing. They only report right-wing extremism, left-wing extremism is not even important, but left-wing extremism causes right-wing extremism. No one would have protested against migrants, seen no protests, no objections if the left-wing government policy of these migrants had not been imported. And if that's what you call extremism, then I also call left-wing extremism the import of these migrants. And she's giving birth to each other. In short, these are just a few of the reasons why we proposed to call a consultation referendum and that citizens and citizens say what they want, whether they want a secure Europe that respects human rights, which will be proud of what it is, or whether you want a Europe. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want Europe as we entered in 2004, and we therefore support the call for an advisory referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ambassador Robert Pavšič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good day to you all! First of all, I wonder where my last half-hour went, because I've been listening to this thing for the past thirty-five, and always one again and again, but it'll be more of a matter of the next debate anyway. And if my predecessor has already afforded a little trip beyond the generic position of a member group, let me also say two sentences. What we have just heard is called selective reading and even more selective interpretation. And anyone who comes to us obviously needs to be completely despised. This will really have a positive effect on all those who come to us, and even more so on us. But more of this in the debate, because today we're probably going to be putting them on the same subject for six hours. The main question today is not whether we want migration, but what we will do to be able to control it. Migration is unfortunately a reality. However, the largest proportion among them is strictly illegal. However, the proposed referendum issue is already wrong at the beginning for at least two reasons. First: “Do you want migration?” we ask. Whether it's a question, a wish, of course we don't want it, not an illegal one at all. This would be the same as if at the referendum we asked ourselves, do we want to be at least 5 degrees Celsius in January? Perhaps most people would choose to do so. The realization of such a conclusion is questionable or impossible. Regrettably, migrations are here and are global, and we can look for reasons both in economic and political parameters. In these areas, however, politics can do something. And secondly, you say that they are “equalising” and that they are constantly “equivalent to legal and illegal migration”. This is completely in the spirit of the proposer, which does not take account of the actual situation, but is once again a selective choice between different facts. It proposes some pseudo-real or historical facts, but the ones most appropriate to it at the moment, and also highlights the right to freedom of speech in the context of the so-called hate speech. In my opinion, personally, hate speech is all that makes hate. And according to your exhibits, I can – again in person – be sure to put a sticker of hostility on him. Why? In view of all the anonymous mail I receive, both in the mailbox at home and in the office and in the electronic mailbox – I believe that many people from this field also receive such mail – this is proof that people then hate it. Yeah, let's race a little bit on the forehead, yeah. Today, it would make more sense to talk about matters that open a secure future rather than closing the door to a global phenomenon. If we put our heads in the sand, the problem won't go away. All that remains is a mouthful of sand, and it's hard to spit out, and it's harder to swallow. Even if such a referendum were to be adopted, what could we actually do? Set up a fence, build a border cordon? What? We all know that this would be completely ineffective, except for the producers of fences. Illegal migration must be prevented at its source. criminal associations and organisations must be broken up and their cash flows prevented. Regular migration must be managed in accordance with national capacities and opportunities. The Marrakesh Declaration and the global agreement are the first documents to allow this on an international level give us some basis. At least among those countries that have aclamated this agreement, they have agreed with it, they have not confirmed it, they agree. At this point, however, it is necessary to take one step forward with the realization that fear and fear are, above all, a barrier and not an incentive for rationality. We are, of course, against this referendum in the LMŠ Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! The proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the treatment of migration for the National Assembly is not a new item on the agenda. Even less so, such a proposal is unexpected. The SDS has already threatened to submit it when, despite attempts to mislead and spread the facts, it has failed to convince the government and the public that Slovenia should join a group of five countries that, at the end of the world, are the only ones opposed to the global agreement on migration. A larger and farthest part of the political right in Slovenia is expected to prove with the proposal for a referendum before its political models of the far right in Europe and around the world. In some countries, these have already successfully forced migration referendums or intimidation against migrants into decision-making on other key issues for the future. In doing so, it was not only anti-migrant rhetoric but also calls for the institutions of representative democracy to rely on the direct will of people to obtain their decisions on the alleged lack of legitimacy. The results of the referendums, such as those concerning migration in Hungary or the exit from the European Union in the United Kingdom, show that there is really no greater involvement of people in the resolution of specific issues. It is nothing more than misleading, lying, manipulating and creating a false feeling in people so that they can influence the existence or absence of a problem with their will. That is also the proposal for a call for an advisory referendum that we have before us. The legal profession, including the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, is one that the proposed referendum is inadmissible. The referendum issue is unclear and clearly urges voters and voters to define themselves in a precise manner, this is against a global agreement on safe, controlled and regulated migration. Part of the proposed issue is a clear lie because it contains the claim that the so-called legal and illegal migrants are being equated with a global agreement. Most important from the point of view of the electorate and the electorate, the proposed referendum cannot have any legal or political effect. Participation in the global agreement as a political platform to address the challenge of migration is not within the competence of the National Assembly, but rather the Government, which has already spoken positively about it. Respected and respected! Valuable tricks to raise political popularity, such as abuse of referendum decision-making, have so far consistently prevented concrete measures from being taken in response to the global challenge of migration. As a result, mass migration could not be addressed in a rational, organised way through burden-sharing between countries and the mitigation of the risks associated with this phenomenon. They have prevented all that is now covered by the global agreement, which includes both those countries from which the most migrants, transit countries and target countries come from. Therefore, the extreme right hand of the global agreement is fighting and so actively opposes it. The reaffirmation of this agreement within the United Nations proves that there is a political will at global level to begin the challenge of migration finally to be addressed in an orderly, humane, coordinated and mutually agreed manner. At the same time, the extreme political right cannot even agree on the possibility of finding an effective system for managing migration in an orderly, secure and human way, since the awakening of fear of migrants has become a central part of their political agenda. In Slovenia, on-call migrants are responsible for the main problems of society and that these problems cannot be solved, more than successfully replaced by groups such as deleted, national and ethnic minorities, single women or same-sex women. The applicants' claims that human rights are placed before the rights of citizens and citizens in Slovenia are just another example of human rights abuses which are a constitutional category and are guaranteed to all people, both citizens of Slovenia and foreigners, in accordance with Article 13 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Relativisation of human rights by falsely putting citizens' and citizens' rights first is just the latest project of the far right, with which it wants to regain its political authority. Current protests across European cities show that estrangement from people in whose service there must be politics, elitism and arrogance of power, socially inflammatory substances that are immune to no political option – either right or left. However, it is worth recalling the most eloquent example of Slovenia's independent political history. In 2012 the main advocates of the Migration referendum and the rights advocates of Slovenian citizens and citizens were contemptuously referring to their citizens who opposed the actions of the Janša government in peaceful democratic protests, zombies and other offensive signs. Social Democrats are convinced that the main task of policy is to respect the dignity of all people and to protect universal human rights, as they represent a civilizational achievement that unites us at global level does not divide us. Only through a common approach, rules and simultaneous action can we solve the challenges of a globalised world, of which migration is undoubtedly one. This challenge will not be solved by anyone else instead of Slovenia. We are also strong in the view that it is unacceptable for a policy to seek an excuse for its concrete action or failure to act on it on people's decisions and feelings. For all these reasons, we will vote unitedly in the Group of Social Democrats against the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the Treatment of Migration. We will not be surprised, however, if we have to repeat our position on such a proposal to the European elections again several times because part of the policy is willing to do everything we can to separate our society and our European family from the migration issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. For the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, the position will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone! With regard to the proposed referendum, I should first point out that this global agreement, the agreement on migration, is part of the international process for regulating global migration, led by the United Nations for several years. It sets out several objectives in this area: regulation of the legal status of migrants, protection of vulnerable groups, women and children, respect for human rights, solidarity and strengthening dialogue, exchange of information between countries and prevention of irregular migration and trafficking in human beings. We also agree with these objectives in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, of course, in the irrefutable fact that we have the first interest and well-being of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. The global agreement on migration is a legally non-binding document, which does not entail new international obligations, but is based on existing international instruments. We stress that the agreement does not open the door to migration, distinguishes between legal and illegal migrants and does not conflict with international and European law. Moreover, the agreement does not commit to amending national legislation and underlines the sovereign right of the State to form its own migration policy. This is therefore a global agreement supported by more than 150 countries, including the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union, and only five countries of this agreement have not supported it! We do not agree with their decision, as we must all be aware together that the migration problem cannot be solved by any country alone. We are committed to a unified approach in the field of migration, both at European and global level. The real approach is cooperation, and the real proof of this is, among other things, the management of the migration flow in 2016, when the so-called Balkan route was closed at Slovenia's initiative, which required cooperation with Macedonia and other countries on this path. We regret that opposition parties in the National Assembly have been trying for months to misuse the global agreement for intimidation and manipulation and to divert attention from other important issues, including the proposed referendum. On this point, I would like to raise two points in particular. For the first time, as we know, a global agreement on migration has already been adopted on 10 December at an international conference in Marrakesh, Morocco. A week later, the General Assembly of the United Nations, with a large majority, endorsed the Resolution on a global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration. The resolution was also supported by Slovenia between 152 countries. Thus, we do not understand why the SDS and SNS members are proposing a referendum with the question whether you are in favour of Slovenia joining a global agreement on migration, if the agreement itself has already been reached. We are therefore also of the opinion that the consideration of this proposal is irrelevant and irrelevant. Another time. We do not understand why opposition parties are so strongly opposed to this document governing migration, because it is the government of Janez Janša who, in 2006 and 2007, signed various agreements, committed Slovenia to participate every two years in the design and implementation of action plans on migration and development. It should also be pointed out that the adoption of such non-contractual international instruments, such as a global agreement on migration, is within the power of the Government and does not require decision-making in the National Assembly. In accordance with the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, the National Assembly can call a consultative referendum only on matters of its competence, as confirmed in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Moreover, the referendum question, in the form we have on the table today, cannot be the subject of a call for an advisory referendum, since in the second part, which contains an interpretation of the agreement, it misleads and leads to a negative response. Furthermore, it is not clear from the question which decision under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly will be taken. We believe that Slovenia is and must remain a safe country in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. The government must prevent illegal migration and ensure the safety of our citizens and citizens, but at the same time Slovenia must help people in distress. Individual eligible refugees must be accepted and treated in accordance with appropriate procedures. The global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration is primarily an expression of the will of the vast majority of countries to participate and coordinate in dealing with current migration flows. However, this does not affect the procedures and arrangements in force in each country. Thus, Slovenia must continue to be responsible for protecting its border, which is also part of the external Schengen border. On the basis of all these substantive and procedural reasons, we do not support the proposal for a consultation referendum on the treatment of migration in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President. We are entering the fourth consecutive year of the constant anti-refugee and frightening political propaganda of the right. It is also a kind of paradox that we have entered in the fourth year since Slovenia has been surrounded by cutting wire, which has not been placed on the border by the right hand, but by the middle, the former government of Mira Cerar. Despite the promise that the wire will be removed, it is still in the border area today, although it is clear, of course, that it causes a lot of problems and, of course, damage, as it does, on the other hand. The established hostile political propaganda that we are listening to is the propaganda of the right, along with the lack of political will of this same environment to stop and prevent it, is the reason why migration with such an enemy tone is being addressed today. 34. We will deal with it tomorrow as we discuss the proposal for a recommendation from Knovs. In Levica, of course, we are not opposed to the debates on migration, but we are opposed to debates that have a single objective and that is to blame a minority for all the problems in the country. If these were ethnic minorities in the past, national minorities or so on, they are refugees today, forgetting that all foreigners represent 6 per cent of the population as a whole, while refugees account for only 0.02 per cent. So far, not one of the more than 30 meetings on this subject has worked to find solutions that are more than necessary. After almost 20 years, we would urgently need a new resolution on migration policy. Even more than eight years old, the economic migration strategy no longer reflects current needs and does not offer answers to the dilemmas of today's situation. Over the past four years, we have dealt with the issue of effective integration and a rapid and responsive asylum application system. This is all a prerequisite for successful integration into society, the education system and the labour market as well. It is also virtually impossible to talk about tackling the causes of mass migration, with NATO's majority political support, increasing the resources for arms and not so silently supporting conflicts and the economic and environmental exhaustion of third countries. Moreover, excessively and unwarranted reference to amended security measures has been used by governments to enforce harmful solutions, increase repression and empower the police and the military. Electric paralyzers, the possibility of suspension of human rights, the possibility of excessive interference in privacy, even the purchase of a water cannon, all of this was legalized by the argument of the changed security situation. The inability to find common solutions at European Union level and the excessive advocacy of border closure have led to the growth of new and new lives of unworthy refugee camps. The number of drowned in the Mediterranean Sea is estimated at thousands. The only ones with excessive exposure to security risks, border walls and a lack of political will to find solutions are those with organised trafficking in human beings who make huge profits. This is also a fact that proponents elude themselves elegantly. As in all past PR campaigns against minorities, even today, the proponents will not avoid lying and manipulation. We've seen this twice today. Without this, it is simply not possible to pursue refugees and foreigners. Without a lie, it is difficult to convince people that 0.02 percent of the refugees are at risk of the remaining 99.98 percent of the population. Nor is it possible to convince people without a lie that the social assistance received by the fugitive is higher than that received by everyone else. Nor is it possible to make an affair of the cost of providing one asylum seeker without a lie. And we listen to these lies practically every day. Through their quasi media, the proponents are willing to cross all the limits of permissive power in hopes of such a desired takeover, while the loyal soldiers take care of floods of hostile content on social networks. For a point on and off this propaganda apparatus feeds on the money of a suspicious source. Controversial media acquisitions and illegal financing from abroad will not last but be the subject of a parliamentary investigation. Maybe it's the refugees, maybe it's the Marrakesh agreement? No, they're not! In Levica, we claim that safety is not threatened by refugees. Migration is a fact that has been present throughout history, and this is also a mass one, only their perception and political responses and political solutions are changing. The policy we have seen in recent years is the worst possible practice that will lead to nothing good. We know where policies take them, such as border closures, tightening asylum and foreign legislation, non-inclusion with integration, ghettoisation, criminalisation and social oppression. Despite the fact that poverty and social exclusion are the main generator of problems in society, such measures continue. Ask yourself how we get the most fertile soil to raise crime, violence and radicalization. By taking a group of people, you push them to the edge of society, you isolate them as much as possible, you disable access to education, to health care, to the labour market, and you push them to the bottom of society. They'll be in poverty. Adding to the rise of fascism, hatred and the rise of right-wing propaganda on the one hand and continuing to promote and defuse armed conflicts and economic and, in recent times, more and more environmental exhaustion of already poor countries on the other hand, you have received a simple recipe for disaster. Who, then, is really endangering our security? It is not threatened by migration, it is threatened by a failed policy regarding its treatment. It is threatened by right-wing propaganda, which is used by lies and manipulations to promote hatred, and is also threatened by an isolated environment, which, in turn, introduces less hateful rhetoric into measures that the right-wing one also introduces. This will also be clearly demonstrated in today's debate. Under cover of concern for citizens and citizens, we will witness a few hours of hostile accounting with foreigners, migrants and refugees. At this point, I hope to say that there will be no discussion of the necessary improvements in the area of integration of all those who have decided to stay with us. Nor will there be a talk about reducing asylum procedures that are today far longer than the law allows. Nor will there be a talk on improving the possibility of early integration of refugees and foreigners into educational and employment programmes. There will certainly not be a talk on addressing the key causes of migration. Thus, we will not talk about the withdrawal of support and the conviction of armed conflicts under the auspices of NATO, of completely incomprehensible decisions on additional weapons, nor of the elimination of the economic and environmental exhaustion of countries already already in dispersion. Simply, the aim of the applicants is only one: to spread hatred and fear openly in the wrong interpretation of the right to freedom of speech. Finally, dear gentlemen of the SDS, I will use as a lapus one of your Members a few days ago, and say: “You are actually the tip of the ice age.” I wonder what's first frozen, brain or heart. In doing so, I recommend two more things to you in good faith. In view of that, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] We've heard insults from your side today, Mrs. Jeraj, a lot. Listen once again or read the Magnography of the speech by Jana Mahnič, and it will, I think, be more than clear. If we could have listened to such claims, you too would have to endure that minute. Ask yourself why no one wants to cooperate with you anymore. Why haven't you managed to convince the other parties to form a government under your leadership, despite the phenomenal results of the elections? Why does NSI not even give you signatures in the last two parliamentary actions? Here I would suggest to you, first of all Ivan Janša, that he may go to political peace and the SDS as a whole to change the business model. Because this one, immersed in hate, obviously doesn't work anymore. We simply cannot support this proposal in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the presentation of the last position, we have Mr Kordiš's procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would like to point out that there is silence in the Chamber when a Member discusses or represents the position of the speaking group. Of course, it is perfectly understandable that during the debates and during the presentations of positions, there is some kind of a cry of approval, perhaps some louder murmuring over the words spoken. That's perfectly normal. But what we are also witnessing from the right-wing stands is a deliberate loud chatter to confuse the speaker, to throw him out of his way, to throw him out of the track and act like the most uneducated freshmen in the final line. The President, please, the next time something like this happens, as has now been the case, take action and immediately warn those Members who are acting in an inappropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I take note, but I assessed during the presentation of your fellow Member's position that the remarks did not disturb him so much and therefore I did not warn Members and Members. However, Mr Tašner Vatovec himself went into a debate with MEPs and Members. A new procedural proposal, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you. I would only remind you of Article 75, “for the order of the meeting of the National Assembly, the chairman is concerned” and I would also ask you that if someone is offended, even if it is our Member, to warn him or to take the word away from him, but not to comment, as you have also spoken. I don't let him insult me and tell me I hate not knowing who and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you, too, for your procedural proposal. In the presentation of Mr Tashner Vatovec's position, I did not detect an insult, and I did not warn him either. I know the rules of procedure, but I'm going to read the article you quoted again. Thank you. We continue to present our views. As last presented by Joseph Horvat on behalf of the parliamentary group at the meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, dear colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we are constantly working to ensure that our country has a common and only one foreign policy – the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia – to speak with one voice from the outside. I am extremely proud of my colleagues and colleagues, who, in the previous term, made up of the Committee on Foreign Policy. We had very difficult foreign policy issues, but we were united. Always. Always! We had a heated debate, most of all in the basement, in a deaf room, but in the end we have drawn conclusions that we have adopted unanimously, virtually as a rule. So Parliament has formed, it has had one and only one foreign policy position, which, of course, did not apply to the previous government. Something Mira Cerar said. “I’m going to Zagreb”, he said. The second was said by Foreign Minister Erjavec: “The Lost Day.” However, the Croats have shrunk us, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our specific weight in the institutions of the European Union is equal to positive zeros. Now for a little bit of chronology. On 2 May 2018, the Marrakesh foreign ministers shall adopt, for the first time, the Marrakesh Political Declaration in the framework of the Euro-African Dialogue on Migration and Development. Secondly, they shall also adopt the Marrakesh Action Plan 2018-2020. What did we have in May 2018? We had a government that was running business, and just because it was an external policy document, that government should come to the National Assembly, at least to the PSC, and ask for an opinion. No, that went past us. Of course, even the media did not report this, and later we found out when the event was already pastime, when it all happened. So, on some level, I'm sorry, hypocritically, the government has bypassed the legislative branch of power. Criticism, very sharp, and I'm going to say it again. Why? Because the National Assembly directs the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what the Foreign Affairs Act says. What does Article 3 say? It says, “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs informs the National Assembly of important matters in the field of foreign policy.” Does this declaration matter? Let's answer that first. If it doesn't matter, okay, then it doesn't apply and the government did the right thing. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall, at the initiative of the National Assembly and its working bodies, explain foreign policy activities and the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall answer the questions within its competence.” We couldn't even ask him, we didn't even know what was going on in Marrakesh on May 2. Moreover, “On a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government may propose” yes, it can” – “To the National Assembly to define a specific foreign policy issue”. Yes, you can. You should have because she didn't have all the powers! That's the problem. Then, of course, it comes — but, look out, never as government material! – in the National Assembly, this global agreement on secure regulated and legal migration. The National Assembly has never taken a stand on this. He did not say, whether we support him or not, because he could not, the government did not bring him to the National Assembly, even though we asked the Foreign Policy Committee to do so. We are representatives of the people, if we go to parliamentary democracy, so this global agreement for the Republic of Slovenia is not applicable in our understanding. It's not working! For example, why is the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in force? Why is this one valid? Because this Convention was ratified by the National Assembly in May 1994, it is therefore in force. Ladies and gentlemen, Boštjan M. Zupančič, who is not a person, wrote, inter alia, in this case, a global agreement on migration, whether it is stupidity or knowingly misleading the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the agreement wants to close any criticism of migration. We've read a lot about this. A while ago, a prominent French legal historian, Jean-Louis Harouel, in the Paris daily Le Figaro, published a controversial contribution to the so-called Marrakesh Declaration, as this global agreement is now also called the Marrakesh Declaration. According to him, "adoption of this agreement, agreement," but now it is already over, it has already been adopted, "remembering the legalization of the principle that everyone should have the opportunity to come and settle anywhere. For example, this would mean that the huge population growth in Africa in the coming decades would result in tens or even hundreds of millions of people falling against Europe. Such a dissension would be suicidal for Europeans. With migrants, a flooded Europe would inevitably be a ruined Europe. The idea of free migration destroys the ownership of Western peoples over themselves. The sovereignty of people is based on ownership of themselves, their destiny, their identity, their land, their material and spiritual heritage." End of quote. And also: “The admission of huge crowds to Europe in their search for eldorado would be suicidal for Europeans and would not benefit migrants. Overflowing Europe would inevitably be a broken Europe." As Victor Hugo pointed out, I quote, “After the day when the misery of all reaches the richness of a handful, the night will come when there will be nothing left. When there will be nothing left for anyone else." This is a regressive effect of egalitarianism. We are in favour of the fact that this Europe is still the largest donor in the world for those who need help. We are sympathetic to people, to refugees – but these are not mass migrations – to refugees who flee from death and war. And now for the referendum. This power, the present one, has made it very clear that we will not respect the will of the people, and this also explains our decision. What is this power that fears the people? This is no longer human authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the Proposal for an Advisory Referendum. First of all, Mr. Grimes, he gets the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Well, at least the masks fell, that's good for people to see. Let's go in one order. You said it wasn't important enough for the people to deal with it or to be the subject of a referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what happens in the European Union right now is more important than the problem of mass migration related to the issue of security and prosperity. No one! This topic, the topic of migration, is transforming the European Union today. It is very likely that brexit would not have happened if it had not taken place under the circumstances of mass migration. Above all, he's transforming it politically. We can bet as much as you want; when they pass the European elections, the image of Europe will be quite different than it has been before. That's how these migrations work. But they also work security. Ask those thousands of raped women — from Cologne to Sweden — how they feel about migration. Doesn't that really affect you? Ask anyone who's ever had that experience before. What an impact, ladies and gentlemen! And that's because someone mixed up mass migration, illegal migration with those usual migrations, and you presented something yourself. So nothing is more important than this and everyone who has said that we are dealing with this many times, believe me, if not otherwise, I will guarantee that we will talk about this a hundred times more in this national assembly. Because no subject is more important than this. No one is more fateful. Until people really have a chance to determine for themselves what they want. And that's what we're proposing today. What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen? So much fear that it stinks right now in this air, it hasn't been left to feel for how many years. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the fear of their own people, of their own people, of their own nation, of the people who trusted you, they have chosen you. Running away from your own people — that's real for what you said today. Your basic argument was based on a lie; on the lie that this act does not bind. If it's not binding, ladies and gentlemen, then why has it been accepted? Then why didn't the Government of the Republic of Slovenia crash into Marrakesh to take pictures because there's a beautiful sun there, they'd be pretty on camera? And they hid, everyone in their office, and they sent down one poor official. Because they're ashamed of what they're doing! Why was this act taken at the back of not only the people, not only the public, but even this national assembly has not been notified! By the time the text of the act had already been harmonised. Because they were ashamed of what they were doing. A very simple answer. Just as you today are afraid and ashamed to stand before your own people, you ask them what they think — because you know what the answer is. Then a further argument, “No debate on what we need”. Very simple, ladies and gentlemen! I've been telling you what we need for three years. We need effective border protection. We listen to the story – The Government of the Republic of Slovenia controls everything. Oh, come on.Oh, my God! Two years ago, a thousand illegal crossings were recorded across the border after that great flow calmed down. Then next year it's 2,000. Last year, 365 days to this day, almost 10,000 crossings are illegal across the border. Do you know what that means? That 10,000 people have forcibly invaded the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And the government says it controls it. It is even more interesting to hear statements by Italian police officers, which read Italian newspapers, which say they are on the southern road, say across the Balkans, still arriving 50 to 200 a day, and multiply it by 365 days a year; you can only take 50, and the number will be huge. So, the government doesn't control anything, ladies and gentlemen, that's what you have to say. This may also be one of the reasons for you to resort to this bombastic designation, and in fact this highly manipulative and misleading, global agreement on safe, legal and orderly migration. Thus, the government does not control anything – it cannot ensure order at the border, it cannot guarantee constitutionality, it cannot guarantee legality, it cannot guarantee security. Another reason that stems from these discussions is the hatred of its own people and people. This is something we have listened to and listened to in the preceding days. It's hiding behind big words again. Let's say one of them is how everything can turn around orlowelski on the head in these debates. That's actually what Orwell Soros should be called. Let's go to Orwell first. You said a minority couldn't make a decision, sorry, a majority would decide on a minority if I was to be decided on a minority. First, ladies and gentlemen, illegal migrants are no minorities, never have been and never will be. Illegal migration and migration, as such, must not at all become one of human rights as is actually intended to be achieved by this act. God forbid! Then it's all over. You have socialism on a global level! What I said earlier and what Nobel laureate in the economy said very clearly is whether you have mass migration or you have a country, social, welfare, a secure state, and you can't have both at the same time. That's who the minority really is here. If you look at how much is going on right now – according to the estimates of the secret services of 200 million – people against Europe, and three times as many predicts that they want to go on the road, then we become Europeans a minority in our own Europe. It's even worse for Slovenia. Two million against all those who come. Then who's the minority? That's what I'm asking you. Who's the minority then? In fact, when you were talking about some of the reasons I'd rather not comment on today, it's just business. What a war, what a war! It is all business; the business driven by the mountains of money, either by Arabs or by Soros-type financial velocities, and this business goes to Brussels, reaching the Italian borders, reaching down to Libya, now everywhere. This has become the most profitable business besides drug trafficking, which there is. It's a shameful business. A business that destroys Europe, which destroys a single European civilization that destroys the security of people who kill people who play with the fate of nations and countries. But this business is behind the big words about aiding humanity and the like. Please! Please. Then what does it come to? Before you said, three million is the problem with the invitation to a referendum. Look back a few days ago, there were 6 million calls by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a special diet for migrants. Isn't that a problem? But that's twice as much, you know. And just a little while ago, there were four million more for other supplies, and a little while ago, there were five million more, and I don't know how many million more. In addition, special apartments with all the luxury equipment and leather seats with LCD TVs were available. Isn't that a problem? How much money really goes on these things? I said it was just business, everybody deserves something. That year, when you had a transparent budget, this was 2016, it was EUR 123 million for migrants in one year. Since then you have been hiding this, and then sometimes you talk about how much that government migration office consumes, but shut up all the calls made by everyone else, and also keep your mouth shut that Europe in particular gives them and so on and so forth. In short, economics estimates are that now this has become a 100 billion-dollar business worldwide with migrants. 100 billion-dollar business. When we talk about these problems, we also need to know that we are facing the 16 billion that, say, launched in a year only by Soros, in order to destroy Europe and the European peoples, to disband or, if you want, to do Eurabia. 16 billion, ladies and gentlemen, monstrous money. Directly on the list of Soros are many, including from Slovenia. You could read two in the papers and Tanja Fajon could read Ivo Wigel. Problem, ladies and gentlemen! Has anyone done anything? As far as I know, that's even illegal. You said rhetorically where it brings the closure of the border. It's very simple, because we have obvious cases in Europe. Opening the border leads to Sweden's problem. Sweden is projected to become a third world country. It used to be a concept. Everyone from Sweden is running away today. I personally know the Slovenians who are predicting that they will move to Slovenia within a few months because it's unsustainable because it's dangerous because ghettos are coming because they're burning 200 cars a night because they're hunting people down the streets because it's crazy because Sweden's become the capital of rape all over the world if you don't know it. These are open borders. What if we close the borders? The most closed border in Europe right now is the Swiss border. That's what we say if we close the border and we get Switzerland. And the choice is very simple and clear. Where does closing borders, ladies and gentlemen? Switzerland, that's why Switzerland is. You said migrants don't threaten us, we're at risk of being mistreated by illegal migrants. To some extent, I would even agree. Yes, migrants do not in themselves threaten us, we are threatened by the link between leftists and radical Islam, which destroys Europe, consciously because they want to destroy the foundations of Europe and replace the present population with something else — with what their future voters would be. It is the greatest social experiment since the fall of Nazism and communism. This is indeed the exchange of electoral bodies of individual countries or nations. That really threatens us. However, as far as wrong treatment is concerned, I agree, for as a migrant, an illegal migrant who invades the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, he has exactly three special rights to be arrested, to be processed and to be expelled. Then this list ends, ladies and gentlemen. That's the rule of law. This is called respect for the rule of law, which is already at risk at all levels at this point, because the phenomena of Sharia law are already being tolerated in Europe; therefore, we are not all equal before the law. In recent stories – you won't believe it! – this is already trying to apply on the basis of the act before us today, to the European Court of Human Rights, which recently confirmed one judgment that Muhammad, who married a girl at the age of six, at the age of nine, must not even write that he is a pedophile under the current criteria. This, I think, was done by an Austrian woman, she was convicted, and is now being affirmed by the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, with European civilisation, I'm sorry, it has nothing to do with it. This is the introduction of Sharia law in fact and this is not my Europe. That's what I have to say. There's going to be something very, very different here. Now, if we go a little bit further. What is the problem of these major migrations that we are talking about and which this act is seeking to legalise? Above all, there are people coming who have no intention of contributing, who have no intention of adapting, who do not intend to integrate; they do not have the slightest intention. They clearly say they're here to command. In the realm of radical Islam, if anyone works, they make women, they don't work men. Then what happens? That out of that million and a half that Mrs Merkel has called to Germany, 33,000 people have been working formally and not yet. It's called social parasitism, ladies and gentlemen. It's the only good expression, the only expression that tells the essence of this story. Now let's ask ourselves, when did you say something for the wiser to spend money? For what is it wiser to spend money than for its citizens and citizens? I'd really like to see that. Look, just yesterday and today. Yesterday, after four years in which this issue was opened at least 10 times, we talked all day about, of course, it is also a violation of the Constitution, but in fact, financially, 300 to 400 000 euros for Slovenian children, for their education. That's the problem! Those of you who have caused this problem and have made a circus out of it and have not implemented it – and you will not for a long time – have given the day before or how many days earlier to ask out for 6 million for illegal migrants. That's not the problem, is it? And you are, if we take that sum – 123 million in one year, and we multiply it by four years, as long as this madness is already going on, half a billion euros have been set off for illegal migrants. Only in Slovenia. And don't tell me you got one piece of that money from the European Union! They don't print it there! We are also paying into the European, this is our money that has come back, which could be usefully used for a person worth his pension, to help those who, as Slovenian citizens and citizens, actually deserve it, for Slovenian children – 30,000 who, after reporting, could not go, say, to the sea and the government took migrants and went to the sea with them to take pictures. But you know! This is what I was talking about — hatred of our own people! Then you talk, I hear it all over again – xenophobia and racism. What if I told you, ladies and gentlemen, that the worst and most rejected form of racism is racism towards its own people? Conscientious endangerment of their own nation, a conscious decline in the welfare of their own nation! This is not only the worst form of racism, ladies and gentlemen, but also treason. By the way, the definition of high treason, for those of you who don't know it. And then some say, "frozen brain and heart". Ladies and gentlemen, now I ask you where your brain is frozen and your heart, when it comes to your own people, Slovenia, our homeland Slovenia, Slovenian people, Slovenian culture, Slovenian tradition, Slovenian language, Slovenian prosperity, security of Slovenia and Slovenians, for the future of our children? Where are your brain and your heart frozen now? I'm just repeating your words. In all this story with migrants, of course, the problem that arose when we put forward a proposal for a referendum is that we should ask the question differently. On the first day of the press conference, I said, this could be the subject of an agreement. The question alone is not essential; it is essential that people know clearly what they decide to decide: whether in the direction of Evravi or in the direction of Slovenia as the national state of Slovenk and Slovenes, the country of security and prosperity, as set out in the basic constitutional charter. You know, this inalienable right to self-determination is twofold. If you carefully read the basic constitutional acts of the Republic of Slovenia, you will see that Slovenia has no Slovenian nation at all, it cannot be because it is an inseparable constitutional and legal foundation. So earlier today, when I started this introduction, I was talking about the inalienable right to self-determination. Because this is really the case now; for the fate of this moment, for the fate of whether we will also keep on – and we support it, we support our families, our children, we strengthen the Slovenian national body – whether we will go in this direction, just as we set it up at the time of the independence of 1991 and it was the very foundation of the independent state of Slovenia. I'm saying we have to keep going this way. Or we will say that there is no problem, all for foreigners, that our pensioners should continue to live from 300, 400 euros per month, and every illegal migrant who steps across the border costs Slovenian taxpayers EUR 963 per month, following an official finding by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia – if anyone would like to object again. That's the problem! Because then it's the perverted thing, you talk about humanism, and you take yours, and you give it to someone else. This is indeed a hatred of his own people and of his people; and this is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. This, I say, is also unconstitutional, manifestly contrary to the foundations of the Slovenian Constitution. If I end up where I started. It is insufferable to flee from his own nation. No one else has the right to decide on Slovenia, Slovenians, Slovenians, Slovenians, Slovenians, Slovenians, Slovenians and Slovenians alone, according to democratic norms and values. This is our proposal to leave this decision to them. As in the past, on the basis of the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination at the referendum, for which we commit ourselves in advance, we will consistently respect it when we adopt laws and all other acts under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, they decide whether they want Slovenia to continue to preserve its tradition, its culture, its Slovenian language, its Slovenian word, all that means Slovenia in the most noble sense of the word – that is, its homeland. I say that if we are Democrats, we are obliged to enable them to do so. When we vote today, we'll see who the Democrat is.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Before we continue the debate when Mr Baković has the first word, I give the floor to Mr Kramar's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Grims, from this speech of yours is actually a very hostile wind, and above all offensive. You said you smelled from the left side. I'm sitting on the left side, and nothing smells like me, so I suggest you look in your own pants, if there's anything there.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u85	This was not a procedural proposal. I warn and ask all Members and Members that, when they have a procedural proposal, they are indeed talking about the use of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Baković, now you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am also a descendant of a migrant, and in the process of conquering this country in the first place, I have stood in the process of preventing a rally of truth as well as a member of a special militia unit in a self-conquering war. So I am living proof that migrants are not just and only evil. That is why I do not accept the obvious that I hate my people and that I smell or smell fear. When I listen to the views of some parliamentary groups, one gets the feeling that there was a world before the Marrakesh Declaration and there is a world and a time after the Marrakesh Declaration. So, rather a world without migration and problems, an idyllic world, and after it a world of apocalypse and migrant horrors, which you describe primarily on the right. First of all, I would like to make a few chronological presentations about the massive phenomenon of migration that we have witnessed in Europe in recent years. They have experienced their peak somewhere in 2015, i.e. good three years ago, and they are a direct consequence of the poor situation in countries where migrants come from, namely Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and some African countries. Of course, the bad conditions in these countries, poverty, war, violence, terrorism, have not been created by themselves or merely by the guilt of these countries, but have also been the interference and interests of both world powers and the European Community itself, either indirectly or directly, both through pretentious acts and through inadequate external policies of Europe and its milkiness and inadequacy to the important issues of these countries. The second part of the causes of this crisis is the situation in the economy of a developed Europe and the fact that the labour market has halved, particularly in the segment of those parts that have not been attractive or have been less paid. Europe simply did not get any more workers for less paid jobs and this has led in the capitalist world to think about how to solve the problem. Of course, large corporations, and mostly small businesses, did not smell like lifting wages and properly evaluating some work, so they began to look for a more pragmatic solution — a cheap and affordable workforce that could be obtained somewhere over there, somewhere where they still eat with a wooden spoon. One option was to move our production and factories there, but of course this is not the most popular. First of all, the cost of moving is the fact that it is not safe in these countries. Therefore, the solution or revelation itself appeared, that perhaps only Muhammad would come to the mountain and not vice versa; and the call followed. The call extended in modern telecommunications society, including in third world countries, as a fire. People from these countries, through modern electronic media, have observed how honey and milk flow in Europe and somehow could not understand why they themselves were condemned to a different, unworthy life. A set of all these causes was the triggering mechanism for people to move or leave their homes in mass, and many of them, of course, also knocked on the door of our country, only with a request, mostly to let them through to the promised and so-called Germany, Switzerland, France. The exceptional situation at the southern border was then successfully resolved by Slovenia. When the largest wave of migrants has passed, the situation has calmed down and security authorities are now successfully performing tasks at the state border. And the Marrakesh Declaration came, and then the global agreement. At that time, however, the right part of Slovenia was finally raised and various patriots who immediately began to point out with their finger and shout that leftists are those who send terrorists to Slovenia and Europe and care better for them than their citizens that they give every migrant more money than they get an average citizen of Slovenia and so on. It is evident that, without the knowledge of citizens, the Marrakesh Political Declaration was adopted on 2 May 2018 and they ask whether voters and voters have no right to decide on such an important issue as is of crucial importance to their security and well-being for the present and subsequent generations. I'm asking new questions myself. Perhaps the interference of the European Community with the internal policy of the countries from which migration comes may have been done with the knowledge of citizens? Was the call for the arrival of cheap labour perhaps made with the knowledge of the citizens of the Union? Did voters and voters decide when the appetites of individual countries, including European countries, sow poverty and violence in these countries? The answer is no. What is most important about this matter, and I want to point out this, is that already three mandates in the European Parliament have the main right-wing option, specifically the European People's Party, of course, which member is also a candidate. With its foreign and economic policy, the global capitalist interests of large companies, this political option has contributed much or crucially to the situation that has led to this migratory crisis. It also followed the invitation of Angela Merkel, who, as you probably know, is also a member of the right-hand option; and it happened obviously. However, despite the fact that there is always a right option in power in Europe, it has somehow become a left-wing option for migrants or migrations that invites migrants to Slovenia, cares for them more than for their people, and no one thinks that the Marrakesh Declaration has been created as a result of the inadequate conduct of world powers and the ruling right coalition in Europe and not as a cause, and that it is trying to resolve and mitigate the situation that has arisen for the reasons described above. The migrants are here and now. Somehow the situation has to be settled because the spirit has escaped from the bottle and I can't get it back. The easiest thing to do is to ask the general public, more than many times before, when we mix all things together so that nothing can be fixed, then to decide on the consequences of inadequate policy. A typical example of how the public can respond suggestively – and also irrationally – is a referendum on brexit. At that time, the majority of UK citizens supported leaving the European Union. If we repeated this referendum today, I am sure that people would express a different, different will. And only after two years! So much for how it is possible to change or direct people’s will by influencing feelings of patriotism. Where there are excessive emotions, there is no room for reason. Pope Francis said on a recent visit to Panama: “We know that the father of lies, the devil, likes the most quarrel and divided nation. The devil is a master of dispersion. He's afraid of people who can cooperate. We can separate people according to this standard from those who build bridges and those who build walls." Today it is clear who is building bridges and who is building walls, so I will vote against the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the treatment of migration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word from the next debater, Mrs Novak, he has the floor to proposer Mr Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u88	Oh, my God! And I'd like you to talk on the basis of one knowledge. First, when you talk about who has power in Europe, there is something you need to know about how decision-making is going in Europe. In the European Commission, ALDE and the Socialists have a common majority. When you add them up, they have about 250 : 216 – this is the relationship within the European Commission. Nevertheless, the main decisions — where do they come from? Yes, from the European Council, where the Presidents of the governments are. Who has had a government in Slovenia and most governments in Europe in the past years? Did EPP have them? No! No! The Socialists had them, and the EPP, and the liberals. Well, you're connected anyway. And there's some green ones holding your stalls, and there's others carrying them around. Basically, that's a fact. That's what it's called, guilt -- we'll deal a little differently than you wanted to show it -- it's yours. Now let's move on. You said earlier that it was not a problem because we were dealing with migrants, and you even made that story that I thought was over, that it was a future labor force for Europe. How many of these migrants are working, people of God?Oh, my God! Let's stop these fairy tales! Are they coming, like, nuclear physics and science or something? How many of these people work? Nothing, zero, zero. Even those who accepted the work — what happened? I think that Audi was this case, they were looking for 20, then they sent some of them to school, they didn't finish school, they didn't finish school, they ended up with zero. Because they didn't come to work! These are not migrants who would come to work. If Europe wanted a labour force, it could be imported from an environment that is culturally and civilizationally close to us, from Ukraine to all other countries. Why does he insist on Africa and the Middle East? That's an interesting question. But you have no answer to that question. What is the problem of what we are talking about today is “Global compact for safe orderly and regulatory migration”, as it is called in the original, because it is still the original, or the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration, as a lie and bombastic name, if translated into Slovenia – what is the problem? Inside you have the tops: on the rights of migrants, on how migrants will even be trained to immediately communicate any form of bullying or negative opinion, so that they will then take the most stringent action and punishment – and lie to this Slovenian public that it is not binding! Wait, sixty-four times in this material, ladies and gentlemen, sixty-four times – count, I may have made a mistake, maybe you will add seventy-seven – it says, “we commit”. We're committed! We commit!...And here we listen to how this is not binding! When Boštjan M. Zupančič writes to you that this is either a sign of stupidity or a sign of knowingly misleading citizens of the Republic of Slovenia – he is the former President of the Constitutional Court and a judge of the European Court of Human Rights! So much for arguing, it doesn't tie it up. However, I said that the comedy was perfect, but I said that Mr Cerar, who was the Minister of your government when he advocated it on the Foreign Policy Committee at the end when we talked about the case of Brazil which had stepped out of the Global Agreement, said that they would still have to make and prosecute hate speech because they were bound by the Global Agreement. This has been published, you also have on 24.com or anywhere, as you can read for yourself. And you have a magnetogram if you want to take a look. Then how come he's not bound? Who's lying? Stop lying, people of God. How she's bound! And that's the problem. What is the point of this commitment? This is about violent multiculturalism. What is true multiculturalism? Multiculturality was an attack on women there in Barcelona, and the multiculturals were Bataclan, a slaughterhouse where people were horribly tortured along with mountains of rape, mountains of everything. It's that multiculture. You can't get people out of such different environments together, unless, of course, you do it by force. And that is really what this global agreement is about! And when you used to say something about what is evil and what is not evil; if you import Africa, you get Africa, you get like Idi Amin once said, "There is freedom of speech, but I cannot guarantee freedom by word of mouth." [[…]] This is literally what you are saying and what you are already doing, because there is already a bill in the government that will sanction hate speech, although some of you are the most respected professors, such as Professor Avbelj, who is also a specialist in European law, points out that any administrative persecution or restriction of freedom of public expression is unacceptable. That's what this is all about. Because you want to remove, limit the freedom of the public word. And since you've spoken so well before, your well-respected predecessor, you have the answer. Look, for 70 years now, there has been this wisdom that evil always cries out about tolerance and preaches it until it reigns. And that moment, he wants to quiet down well. This is what you do and that is the essence of the Global Agreement. The essence of the Global Agreement, for which Bosniak M. Zupančič also wrote, is that the Pact forces the censorship of the opposite opinions. They are true, they represent an attempt to severely restrict the freedom of the public word and therefore that fear I spoke of earlier. That's why he ran from his own people. That's why you don't hope to face your own people. A fellow who had previously mocked or tried to mock – I am not afraid, ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that we go to a referendum. I'm not afraid to stand in front of people and ask them. People are always right! But if they decide that they want unlimited migrants to want this global agreement to be put into effect, then I will respect it — right? It's a democracy. But don't get funny and try to stop the referendum from happening in the same breath. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just fear, it's also a shame because it's undemocratic. Once again, it is no longer a fateful, long-term fateful topic now in the European Union and in Slovenia, such as the issue of migration. With all that is involved in the broadest sense of the word: from security to prosperity, to the question of the relationship to whom you give priority, to your people, or to those who come. It's all open. That is why people have the right to decide for themselves because it is such a fateful matter. I hope to face people personally at any time and simply say: “Slovenia first!”
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Baković, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Maybe I wasn't a well understood, respectable forerunner. I'm not talking about how many migrants are working right now, but I'm talking about who invited them and Angela Merkel's name came up and the right option. But if you want to find data online in 2017, the employment of migrants born abroad is 67%. As for lies or deceptions, look at the online origin of the photograph that you sold yesterday as a photo of Che Guevara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u91	Procedural first. Here you go. But let's be really procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you, Chairman. I am gradually turning to you by asking what time it is, whose day it is, and what year it is written, because what we just listened to, we can replace the word migrants with the word Jews, and we will immediately return to the time 75 years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u94	It was once again a wonderful comparison of exactly what I said at the outset, that it was so shameful that it was done when those ordinary migrations were confused, like the term and the term, with those mass migrants who were coming illegally. These are two completely different sets. Of course, those who come along the normal route want to work, want to contribute, and are also employed. In Slovenia, about 240 thousand are reported by the UN. The other is illegal migration, these mass migrations, which bring what is negative and what the Global Agreement is really talking about, because it equates them all into the same basket. That's exactly what should never have happened. This tries to bring a new human right through the side door, the right to migration. Whoever objects to this should remember that the UN Charter on Human Rights was once adopted as a non-binding resolution, and look at its status today. For this reason, of course, it is necessary to keep this in mind and therefore people have the opportunity, they must have the opportunity, we must give them the opportunity, if we are Democrats, to speak about it directly at the referendum. But as for that painting, I wrote it yesterday and today. See if it is true that something is wrong with the image, consider it symbolic. But you've missed the point, ladies and gentlemen. You love a man who's proven homophobic, homophobic racist and mass murderer. And think about it! [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u95	Here you go. Mr. Baković, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u96	Once again, I would like to point out that the largest migration and wave was in 2015. This employment data is in 2017. Here are also these migrations, which of course have come at this time, and of course those that have remained and settled the status.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Fearing people is certainly not appropriate, but caution is more than necessary. However, consideration of migration is also necessary and necessary. This Marrakesh agreement, we, the Christian Democrats, have opposed it because we believe that each country itself has to regulate migration in terms of how many people can accept, integrate, want them, need them. These commitments, that each country must do as the European Union or anyone else will say, do not seem right to me. On the other hand, I know that this referendum would have no validity, so it's just a expensive survey, which is unnecessary because we know what people want. Christian Democrats, however, insist that we must remain in our politics and democracy at the centre of attention, that is, respect for man from conception to natural death, so we must treat every human being with respect, responsibility and non-discrimination. This does not mean that the European Union or Slovenia must accept any person who wishes to come to us. The European Union and Slovenia are also not obliged to solve all the problems that have accumulated in the world and which have led to migration. Of course, we need to help refugees and those who need help. I have already quoted several times what the Dalai Lama said at a conference in Sweden last year: “Europe belongs to Europeans and help refugees and then they are responsible for rebuilding their own country.” So migration in the sense that we can integrate them into society, not that Europe will change in its foundations.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, even in Slovenia and here in the National Assembly, we cannot pass over the fact that the issue of migration today is a first-class issue, not just in Europe, not only in the world, but also in us. Even so, we cannot because of the fact that there is a mass displacement of people, and the mass migration of people, of course, brings a number of problems behind us. That's a fact we can't get past. Another fact is that today we are talking, of course, about the referendum or the consultation referendum, that this is an institution that can actually get people's answers and that this is one of the most democratic institutions in asking people what they think of the most important European question today. That's what we're talking about in Brussels, Paris, and that's what we're talking about in New York and so on. And if not today, if you are not in favour of telling people today or telling people what they think about moving or moving people into Europe – we are part of the European Union, we are part of Europe – and what they think about these people coming to Slovenia – and here I will also explain what this can mean – then you are simply someone’s eyes. Then he closes his eyes and actually fears democratic decision-making or people about the most pressing issue. I can also agree with some authors, economic authors, who not least spoke a few days ago in Davos when they spoke about the distribution of world assets and what that really means. Before that, no one is holding on to people, nor is it, if you've heard of some economists, that 26 of the richest people have such assets as 3.9 billion people. This, of course, is questionable. And if we are also talking about telecommunications progress in all countries in the world – and this progress also has certain negative effects, especially by creating false hopes – then of course we can imagine it all and this problem is real. What is he talking about? If you go to Africa, if you go to Nigeria, if you go to Pakistan, any country, you'll see a lot of hungry people, I didn't say poor, hungry people, but on the phone. This cell phone creates a better world for them, they have it on their screen, but this world is not really accessible. This world is not attainable, then, of course, different criminal associations give them false hopes that this world is actually attainable. Here we come to mass migration on the basis of the criminalisation of these migrations and the greatest exploitation of people, probably in the last 50 years. With this problem, there are very few people in the world today. You can go to Libya, you can go to Arab countries, you can go to other countries, and you will actually see Europe as such, and with this Slovenia needs an answer to this question. It needs an answer to how it will resolve this question too, but it is, of course, intended to resolve this question by creating certain conditions for a better life in these countries of origin. No one's denying it. On the other hand, the culture itself in Europe, the economy in Europe, the social system in Europe, does not permit as much people to be forced as some analyses have predicted. These people are actually waiting if you want – some information is already for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bihac, Grand Kladus and so on. Europe has its own order, which must be followed, is the Schengen Agreement and the Schengen Border, and in this regard the matter is perfectly clear. He who is invited to Europe, he who has a visa, he who has permission to come to Europe, may come to Europe. In Europe, if not the other, we must keep order and also within Europe and within Slovenia determine the number of people who will move to Europe or Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, Europe is also here, as we can see, uneven. However, this issue will have to be resolved in Europe and Slovenia, but this issue will be resolved by asking people how they intend to solve it; however: either by referendum or by elections or by anything, but ultimately this will be the most topical issue today in Europe and this will have to be done. So running from a referendum that we're offering here to find out what people think about this immigration is blinding their eyes. Maybe right now, but it'll be real in two years or three years, it'll definitely be real. Once again; illegal migration, this is a new issue today, which is not really there. Look, if you're going to another country, you're going through police and customs control, so you can come to another country. And that's European and that's civilized. Any other transitions are illegal and, of course, the police must do so in accordance with the law in force in Europe. We're talking about migrants here. The other question is refugees. This has to be separated. This agreement, the Marrakesh Agreement, unfortunately, does not talk about it or separate it or commit it. At global level, an agreement will have to be reached where these global issues will be resolved. However, for Slovenia something has to be taken into account, and that is to say that demographics must also be taken into account. Every year, more people are evicted from Slovenia than they actually come to Slovenia. The fact that we have a national increase is actually negative. We're going to die out in the long run. This is also an issue related to migration. Because I don't think anyone in Slovenia wants the extinction of Slovenians, the extinction of Slovenian culture, the extinction of Slovenian customs, the extinction of Slovenian history. Sooner or later, ladies and gentlemen, if you don't want to get to know what people think about it today, maybe we'll deal with it later. But if we don't get into these problems today, these problems, I think they'll be a lot worse in a few years than they are today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž the German, to prepare Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Relatively high economic growth, surplus in the balance of payments, increase in employment rates, falling behind labour costs for the EU average, halving the debt that our domestic companies had to banks during the pre-crisis period, increasing investment in technology modernisation and one of the most difficult debts of the population or the lowest, I apologize, the debt of the population in the European Union. We've waited 10 years for this moment. It is a feeling, regardless of the policies that they are and that lead this country, that people longed for this very thing: peace, a relatively stable economic and political picture in the country, and, of course, prosperity and peace. There is still much to be gained, and peace must be maintained. That is why I am inclined to have such debates if they are effective, productive and if they are spoken by serious people. I respect my predecessor, Mag. Andrej Širclja, I do not agree with him, but discusses, I think, effectively, correctly, although he is beyond the parameters that I represent and my views. Of course, I find it difficult to get dizzy by the fact that we listen to lies, to deceive in Parliament without sanctions from day to day. I would expect the public to be informed repeatedly about what is causing the black panther to die or, say, the last great discovery, yesterday's photographs of mags. Grims – fake photos from a movie, interpreted as if it were a real event. You know, mag. Grims, I'm gonna let myself be a little personal and direct to you. I have a feeling that you are embarrassing not only your colleagues but also your political auditors and the general public by constantly spreading anger, hatred, negativity at a time when people need only peace: leave us alone, politics, so that we can work in peace. Everything I expect from you, mag. Grims, you're being honest with your colleagues, your colleagues, us, and, above all, yourself. We have caught you too often in a lie that you will be here today or always wise to us, teaching us what should be clear to man. So to tell people the truth and to listen primarily to participate in what is challenging to us, which is most difficult; and Europe has huge numbers, believe me. Our country's central mission this year is to further strengthen economic and social stability, the democratic structure of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Grims, or social conditions in our country. These are the darkness that awaits us in the future. Of course, I am not reducing the importance of migration, but I think that today in the Republic of Slovenia, proven in the last two or three years, we have done a good job. This is acknowledged by all of us, this is felt by our citizens, as recognised by our colleagues from abroad. Our share was extremely large, and it is today. We daily accept foreign delegations to the Republic of Slovenia from all over Europe. Indeed, we are in a very important intersection, in a few months there are European elections and we count those who are equally thinking, those who want prosperity for all Europeans, those who want to see the European Union grow in proportion. Those of the European Union who respect the rule of law, which respects large and small countries, those who understand the importance of the European community and who do not break it down. Of course, the effects from abroad are enormous and the consequences of our past actions are great, but it is very important how we deal with this phenomenon. Of course, some colleagues are already good for you, even though you want to interpret something different. No, you had more mandates, Mr Grimes, we are talking about the EPP, the Human Party, the political right. Starting with Barroso – two mandates, Van Rampuy – two mandates, and the unfortunate came to Brussels also under the EPP, these are all yours, this is part of the European People's Party. [[Incomprehensible]] You can interpret whatever you want, mag. Grimes, but these are the facts. Angela Merkel is also one of the soberest branches, but Angela Merkel is one of the key words. And with all due respect to her opus, life and politics. Of course, it is our responsibility to remind ourselves of such anomalies that occur. Look, mag. Grims, because you're lonely, even your hard-hearted colleagues are standing behind you. Of course, they have concrete arguments that distance themselves from yours, but you embarrass all of us, not only the opposition on the left, not just the coalition, but also the opposition and the right. I would suggest that we focus on what the real problems of today are. I am not saying that we will not have to deal with this same subject again in the future as we did in 2015, but then we are almost surprised or managed to tackle this huge challenge relatively well, and I have no doubt that if it reappears, we will do it again in the same way. You know, one thought strikes me in the head during today's day that I'm not so worried about internal political developments as I am about foreign policy. I care as much about what is happening today in the Republic of Slovenia as I worry about what is happening around it or around our neighbouring countries. There will be a lot of challenges, and we still have a lot to do, and we must not allow ourselves to create additional burdens and problems for ourselves. It is our responsibility to have the right time to interpret people and to prepare them properly. Regardless of all the words spoken, we must also have in mind our country, our citizens. Let me mention only the exceptional growth of tourism, which can also be affected by such debates, in particular by the creation of a state of spirit in the country. When a foreigner rides around the center of one of the cities in Ljubljana – will we see him at the first ball as a partner, a comrade, a friend, a tourist, perhaps, or a migrant who takes jobs, money and actually takes everything he can give our people? It's a huge lie, and they need to be revealed, and they need to be talked about, so that we can give space to a constructive debate, not a lie. There's enough of these, and people are tired of them. Another point I would like to make — whoever wants to pay for this consultation referendum. In this way, he will be able to do the most he likes to abuse — to take our own and to give to strangers. Master Grimes, be more human, give yourself a human face. I believe I have upset you with my performance, but I would like you to find your inner peace, too, because it will be easier for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The text is by a representative of the proposer, Master Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u104	On the contrary, Mr. German, you have cheered me up! This will be an excellent opportunity, as you yourself said – I will only return your words to you – that anyone who wants to import illegal migrants into Slovenia should pay for it and invite them home and be the first to do so by example. And when you do, we'll believe your words. As far as the rest is concerned, this is all it is. I've explained before, we really should be worried about one thing. First of all, I'm personally concerned about why the last time I responded to your jokes about the weather when you ran the session, you jumped into my mouth six times. You were so nervous because you knew I was right. Isn't it? And that's the problem. The second part — that picture, unfortunate — if it is appropriate or inappropriate, I showed it in good faith because there are thousands of places on the Internet, but I believed it was the right one. It's no big deal, even if it's not, ladies and gentlemen, because a colleague is a real Che Guevara – isn't it? What we should be worried about is the fact, Mr. German, that we should be concerned that the entire leadership of the Republic of Slovenia - I suppose with you, although you were not personally, but were surely your leaders - was sitting under the image of a mass murderer who was a xenophobic who was a racist who was proven homophobic and who is a proven mass murderer – for at least 260, after writing on the internet and after the published testimony of people – is the fact that he committed the murders even personally. With his troops, it's supposed to be over 10,000 people. If you're all sitting under such a man together, that should be of great concern to all of us, you know. Very worried! It is no wonder, then, that foreigners are given priority over their people by such individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, procedurally, I'm really asking for procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Grims insists that Che Guevara is a mass murderer, that he is a racist, that he is xenophobic. But if all this is true, then I wonder why Mr Grims Che Guevare doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u107	Mr. Kordish, that wasn't procedural. You want a replica, Mr. German? Yes, Mr. German, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u108	I'm not taking this chance. To actually point out exactly what I wanted. The actual reaction of the mags. Grimsa said her thing, there's nothing to add here. In fact, with this anger, when interpreting certain facts with some other facts, however, and they are packed up in a way that the person who speaks does not believe those words. Mag. Grimes, there's only one thing I'd like to remind you of. In recent media – I know that you are a man who is a reader to read – it is a power to understand that the Slovenian economy depends on those people who come to Slovenia legally and help the Slovenian economy. Today, most of these are from Bosnia, and we can be grateful for them to help us to keep the economy as we know it today. There's one thing I'd like to finish, mag. Grimes. You know, it's hard to imagine in the National Assembly when you keep saying that there's something you need to know that it's you who's saying it and you like to teach us what's right and what's wrong, but today we're constantly reading about what you're saying, what you're showing, what you're doing, what you're putting at the forefront of not the content, but your purpose. You reveal to yourself that no matter what you get in your hands, you want to interpret in the way in which the picture was then shown and proved. But by doing so, you only expose yourself and actually expose your credibility, which, unfortunately, you've already lost. When we're talking about migrants, when we're talking about the black panther, when we're talking about global weather events, and, of course, like the last flower that Kordiš mentioned, with yesterday's photo of Che Guevare, I think you broke all the records of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And have a nice day for all of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Proposer, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u110	With pleasure, Mr. German, I invite you, and we will face this subject at some point. You will be very surprised at what the facts are and what can really be presented about certain things. And then we'll talk about those lefties' anthem, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Get Dr. Ange Logar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u112	My boys, where we went or what else to say. I mean, that's just past the agenda, just past the darkness, just past it all. Otherwise, I can agree with my colleagues here that yesterday the SDS really exceeded itself, not in a positive but in a very negative sense. But good, because once they had to show their true face. Lies that aren't only lies in showing some false pictures if they're looking at our jumpers, whether they're jumping in first place or not, if that "rooze" showed the number of lies they tell on the other side, and they're saying today, and yesterday, Mr Grims, they'd have hit the "rooster" somewhere over there. Let us go back to the agenda, which is not the content of the Marrakesh declaration today, but it is that the SDS wants to have a referendum on a matter that does not exist or is already over. As far as the Marrakesh Declaration is concerned, we have already said everything. Today, too, some things have been repeated. I would only remind my colleagues how alone we were in 2015 with those numbers of migrants that we successfully controlled, but we had to do it alone. At that time, we would have loved to have another country come to our aid, or at least to have some concerted activity, but it was gone. The Marrakesh Declaration is something that we really wanted back then, which you, too, have in previous years or your President, in fact, called for, and you will not admit today. So, the referendum that the proponents want would be on this subject and the question would be: Are you in favour of Slovenia joining the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration, which amounts to legal and illegal migration? And if I let go of what the Legislative and Legal Service has said about this issue and about whether a referendum on such a question is even possible, I wonder about a healthy farmer. Should we have a referendum on a question that is already past the past? The Marrakesh Declaration was eventually acclimated in 2018 and only five countries did not join it and all others joined it. That, too, has been said quite a lot today. So, now we're going to have some kind of referendum on some matter that's already over. The second thing, the question of how it is asked, what it refers to, but if I read Dr Rajko Pirnat's words – that we will not say that I am an expert on these things, but not my words – but “the referendum question leads to a negative answer from it is not clear which decision under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly will be decided”. [[…]] This is the second condition that only a matter within the competence of the National Assembly can be decided at the referendum and is not met if we leave out the question in what way. Then there was an idea that the consultative referendum would be signed and then it would become a commitment that it should be followed and so on. It is very clear that the SDS wants something that is actually illegal. The referendum on such a question is not possible because it is not a matter under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, and again, I repeat, it is a matter which is already pasteurised. Therefore, no problem has SDS to demand something that is illegal, as we know, we have already heard in the constitutional indictment yesterday that no matter how SDS now declares itself as the guardian of the Constitution and the guardian of the rule of law, there is no problem in demanding something illegal or, even, in the past, making an intervention against ministers who wanted to implement some of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. So, five minutes so, five minutes different, and the fact is: what you're asking is not in accordance with our legislation. If it's not in accordance with our legislation, it's illegal and it can't be.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I don't see the deadline for the replica. I give my word to Dr. Anzet Logar, prepare for Miha Kordish. Here you go, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. Maybe first of all, it's just about the name global agreement. It is difficult to talk about a global agreement if important countries do not accede to this agreement. It is also difficult to think in this direction that in some countries — I think nine European countries — the state of the spirit is such that they have turned away from European values. Perhaps the truth is quite different that these nine countries have put themselves primarily for their citizens and citizens, and that they have in fact come to understand the danger in some way that threatens, within a longer period, a policy that benefits no one, and I will further explain why it does not. There are many words about countries needing scientists, experts, intellectuals from other countries, because fertility in individual countries is not large enough. Countries do this differently, with green cards, blue visas and so on, to attract the most qualified. Believe me, for such migrations, the world does not need any global agreement. There will always be migration. The osmosis itself works in such a way that it spreads from less dense to less dense to less dense, into countries with more good comes individuals from countries with less good, then eventually to some level of economy that normally works. In 2015, however, we were faced with a phenomenon that the European Union has not yet faced. Countries have dealt with this issue differently and there have been many contradictions to such policies. It is amazing to me how some of these contradictions a priori estimate for backwardness, for something that goes against human values and so on. Ask those who live in countries or who run countries from which these migratory flows come. You will see that, with such migration, the Member States are causing the greatest harm to these countries because they are taking their labour because they are taking their intellectual power because they are essentially taking away the substance on which these countries could grow. If you take all people from one country and import them into the European Union, this country will continue to stagnate and deteriorate, while also having problems with the European Union or the countries in which these migrants will be found. That is why the European Union has always stressed and is also the world's largest net contributor to support the development of these countries facing a crisis with an underdeveloped economy and so on. The main purpose of the additive economy is to be created in these Member States or those countries, if economic opportunities arise, people will remain in these countries. This is also stated in this global “compact”, which is one of the primary objectives. Only a large part of this agreement speaks contrary to this agreement, contrary to this objective. It points to what countries must do for all those who come to the parties to this Agreement. It is amazing that this agreement does not actually use the word illegal migration, and this concept does not exist at all. There are regular and irregular migrations and I fear that this agreement is a so-called frog cooking syndrome. This is only the first in a series of measures to be followed by laws, or agreements, or declarations, or conventions that already have a legal obligation, but will apply to this agreement. And here, in the National Assembly, some foreign affairs minister will base this agreement on why certain obligations need to be made. We had one discussion about this, where I said what kind of discrimination this could bring into our system, so I wouldn't be able to talk about it anymore, but maybe that's all I would stress. See, also at the conference where this agreement was confirmed, there was a rather hot controversy as to whether it was binding or not a binding declaration as to what this would bring to each Member State, whether it was within the jurisdiction of each Member State. You will not believe this, as many as 50 additional declarations or letters have been submitted from the members who participated in this debate. On the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, the Foreign Minister has never warned me that Slovenia has also made a special statement in this regard. Never! He did not even tell me that it was originally in March, I think he signed, he did not even tell me that the text has not yet been translated, that the Government has decided on the basis of the English text, and he did not tell me that Slovenia has submitted an additional declaration or letter of notification or agreement to this agreement. For example, in this letter, the representative of Slovenia said: “At the same time, the government points to a clearer distinction between regular and irregular migration, which should be made more clear throughout the text, in particular in Objective 16.” Even the government acknowledges that this global compact is incompact and allows for a different interpretation. Even a government that defends him! For the last time, on the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Cerar said that Slovenia could not get out of this agreement anyway. Why not? Who says you don't? On 9 January, Brazil stepped out in line with a pre-election promise. What is the difference between Brazil and Slovenia? Why couldn't Slovenia get out? And that's a question we'd like to ask for a consultation referendum. I don't know why you're so fond of the text that was submitted to the paper before Slovenia even acceded to this Marrakesh declaration. It has already been said, and every time, that the applicant can change this issue in any way in agreement. If this is a question that is affecting the Slovenian public, I see no reason why we should not decide about it at the referendum, at an advisory referendum that can be signed. Now it's just about the cost. You speak, too expensive a poll and so on; look, we have European elections on 26 May. They're gonna stop anyway. In addition, if another referendum is published, I do not think that costs will increase significantly. However, all of this dilemma will eventually fall away, and perhaps you will be the one who is now saying that this is not a problem, getting proof that it is not a problem for the Slovenes in fact and that your victory with the referendum will be proven or that the matter will be different and that the Government will receive a clear signal that the people want to withdraw their signature from this agreement – and that is why the world will not be shaken. In fact, we will listen to the Slovenians and the Slovenians, that the government will do what the Slovenes and Slovenians expect it to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Miha Kordišek has the word to prepare Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. The far right would like to have a referendum on refugees, which is completely absurd, abject. It's like we can have a referendum on facts! Because migration is a fact, no matter what we think of it. They always have been. They always will be. What is the specificity of modern migration and what they all have in common is that capitalism drives them. They are driven by capitalism, in three basic forms. The most commonly exposed form in the public is war. The military complexes, the NATO Union, geopolitical interests are being ravaged by third world countries, from which refugees are now coming to the northern, more developed countries. People from their home countries of the global south also flee due to economic devastation, which is being driven by Western multinational corporations, which are draining the natural resources of these countries in Africa, Latin America, South East Asia, and exhausting the human resources of these countries, and ultimately grossly festering nature and the environment. The third reason that approaches us in the no longer so distant future is the climate escape. It is precisely because of economic devastation and because of its position that the countries of the global south are the ones most sensitive to climate change. Not only this country, humanity will slowly find itself in a situation where we have a bad year at global level, the first year, it will go somehow through, and we will have a bad summer next year, and suddenly we will witness global hunger. At the local level of the countries of the global South, the effects of all these processes are, of course, even more pronounced and faster. Now we can look at what it's like to be the agrarian type of a lot of these countries. When the West Corporation comes, it rents half the country of this territory to produce some profitable crops it sells in the West. Local people work there for a handful of rice or not, and while exporting primary agricultural products, they themselves are starving. These, ladies and gentlemen, are all symptoms of capitalism and three forms, three engines of global, modern migration. You don't want fugitives on your borders? Okay, then let's put capitalism on the referendum or in our favorite version at least Slovenian cooperation in the military industrial complex and in the NATO connection, which is one of the three driving pillars of modern global migration. In Levica we invite you here and now again, sign with us the requirement to withdraw Slovenia from NATO and after the cancellation of 1.2 billion euros of heavy military supplies intended to terrorise the global South so that Slovenian boys and girls in uniform can ride as auxiliary occupation troops of the US and other Western armies in Afghanistan, Mali and elsewhere. We will, however, do the most here and now, instantly, to reduce the volume of global migration. But you do the opposite in the types of extreme right; you support the military industrial complex, you support corporate looting, not just global corporate looting around the countries of the global south, you support corporate looting in our country, in the Republic of Slovenia. You deny climate change and want to attract the dirty industry to Slovenia by standing by Visegrad. Therefore, the Slovenian economy is constituted on the basis of social dumping, environmental dumping, low added value and dependence on Western power centres. To keep the Slovenian economy, or even further, in the position of subcontractor. In short, it is you, the far right, the SDS, who today are demanding this absurd referendum on migration, who are actively supporting all policies that are yet to produce global migration in this large scale. You say you are interested in the regulation of migration and the central point of your argument is the distinction between legal and illegal migration. This must be addressed by two points. The first point is this: what is legal is not necessarily right, what is forbidden is not necessarily wrong. Slavery was banned. Children's work was allowed their time. Forgive me, before I said slavery was forbidden – slavery was permitted and secured by laws, child labor was allowed and protected by laws and so on. Does this mean that slavery is right, just? Does this mean that child labor, because it was once legal, is also a practice that we must follow? No, not again! The country, the laws are no measure and the metrics have morals, the ethics of what's right. The second answer, which may relate more directly to the views of the SDS, is not really of interest to the regulation of migration. They are interested in the use, abuse of migration, some spontaneous fear between Slovenian citizens and citizens to fuel their own ideological agenda, built on racism. And that is all that is hidden in all these 30s and several debates on migration that the SDS has so far carried out. It's a common racism. Well, you can say it directly, and you can tell the truth, as you boast about doing it yourself. You just don't like people who have darker skin colors than you do. That's it. If this racism, we cross this xenophobia with a little broader policies and the style that Parliament's extreme right teaches – what do we get? We get "fake news", we get a series of anti-democratic measures, the abolition of civil liberties, the sabotage of human rights, the control over the aspects of the lives of all individuals, individuals – within this country, not outside it. Do you know what I just described? I've described fascism! That's what we're dealing with now. Not only is it racist to discuss migration, it is very bad to wrap fascism or – as it is now said – in the case of Orban for example – non-liberal democracy. What do these policies mean for Slovenian citizens and citizens, although they are measured and promoted and directed against the arrivals seeking refuge? I'm going to go after Victor Orban again. I'm going to go after Hungary. In Hungary, however, major protests recently took place because of labour law, because the Orban Fascistoid Government brought the law to the parliamentary table and was then adopted, which the unions there called it the slave-ownership law, which allows overtime to remain unpaid for three years, and which allows some employees to raise up to 400 overtime in one year. In short, brutal exploitation practices. Can you imagine working with us in a factory, working in a parking lot, wherever you are, doing so much and so much overtime, and then your capitalist employer doesn't pay these overtimees for three years? This is the future that the SDS represents, and it masks it and hides it behind the people of the darker sexes. Keep this in mind when you hear the extreme right talk about the Slovenian nation! What do they actually talk about when they talk about the Slovenian nation? They're talking about foreign corporations that would just give them a Slovenian industrial base. They're talking about the tycoons they created. They talk about the privileges of the rich. But they certainly do not talk about labour rights, labour salaries and the well-being of the vast majority of citizens and citizens. The takeover law – this was done during the first Janshea government. This is the law that has only allowed the formation of tycoons and robbed the Slovenian industrial chain for billions and billions of euros, which then poured into bad credits, into Slovenian banks and eventually into the pockets of all citizens and citizens, because of the bank hole from these loans. So much for the welfare of Slovenian citizens and citizens! First you make the tycoons, then you save these tycoons with our money. Or the last case, the Minimum Wage Act, which we won in Levica after four years. Who didn't support this marriage? It's those gentlemen who today are saying how much they're doing to the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Podkoršek. Get Natasa Sukich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! I promise all those accompanying this meeting of the National Assembly that I will try to stick to the agenda. I have learned so much in my life that there are certainly no shorter ways or it is very dangerous to ever make it to the right. I have been in this national assembly for the fifth year, but I have listened to it many times, of course, because we are living in some special world time, what is happening in our wider community, the European Community, and the wider world. Speaking of these five years here in the National Assembly, I've been hearing half a year about some fairy tales from Greece. And time has contributed to the fact that if I go back, that there are no shorter paths, or that it is not possible to get ahead on the right, and that it is not possible to talk about fairy tales, reality is soon to come. We've heard a lot about a country far from us, Venezuela, that took a year. One of the richest countries in the world in natural history, and today it is taken to a dead end! There is also the fact that there are no shorter paths or fairy tales of socialism do not apply. Many people in that country suffer as a result of the many fools who led or still run the country. Let me go to the agenda we're talking about this afternoon, about the consultation referendum. Today we have also heard that those who propose this should also pay for this referendum. I think this point is very important. Perhaps someone thinks it's funny, maybe someone thinks I'm unfairly exposing it, but when we probably don't sit in this national assembly anymore, we're going to have this meeting, or we're going to consult on this referendum about the Marrakesh dowry, and we're going to remember it again. This, honourable Members, of course with all due respect for all, I place it on my heart. At the beginning of 2016, the person closest to this President of the Government, Mr Šarc, who is one of the major experts in the field of security of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the wider part of the former Yugoslavia in Europe, wrote about migrants: "This is a plan for undermining the value and tradition of Europe." I'm sure I'll sign under that sentence. When you throw big shovels at this site today to talk about some rude things, about the people we underestimate – I don't think we underestimate anything in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I don't do it myself – to pick political points. Let me remind you of one fact. Today, it has already been said that, in the previous term, both the Foreign Minister and the President of the Government have known certain things, or have signed them, which have not been reached by Members and Members of this National Assembly. Of course, when you throw some things on this side, on the Slovenian Democratic Party, let me say that if everything blooms like this in the Republic of Slovenia, then the party that received 36 Members in the previous term will soon come under four Members. [[…]] If we and each of our points were contrary to some values and the principles that Slovenians and Slovenians respect and for which they fight and work every day in the Republic of Slovenia, then this result would probably be slightly different. We have, of course, been legitimately elected in our part of Slovenia and I think it is right to stand up for Slovenians and Slovenians. That sentence I said, which was pronounced by someone sitting in the nearest office of the Prime Minister today, is quite certain. Of course, I support the consultative referendum, which should be as low as possible, so I propose that we combine it with the upcoming European elections, which will be held this year in May. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! What I hear here today is, I can say, "From Rabat to Marrakesh." This could be said: that Rabat, where the then Janša government, through its envoy Dragostin Matei, began to push its way to the so-called Marrakesh Declaration in July 2006, today this same government is passing on to the SDS a true publishing act. Well, understand if you can. However, an even more important document, which is opposed by the proposal for an advisory referendum, is the Global Agreement on Secure Regulated and Legal Migration, which was adopted or supported by 152 countries in the UN in December. Well? We cannot say that this is not a global agreement. And why is such a global agreement necessary, why is it important? Since you simply cannot solve migration lanes or refugee problems separately from others, you cannot isolate yourself, you cannot do this within each individual country individually, but it takes international cooperation, it is simply necessary to take a holistic approach. Pika. There should be no debate here, but it is because, no, Slovenian parties to the extreme right would prefer to join Slovenia in countries such as Hungary, Poland, Austria or Trump America, where xenophobia is at home at the daily level. But in fact, the Slovenian Democratic Party or the proposer is not as concerned with this global agreement, nor is the Marrakesh declaration, the essence is completely different. This is a simple smoke screen, a cover for their agitprop and for a complete anti-refuge hysterisation that did not begin with this Marrakesh declaration. We've been her witness for four years. For four years we systematically listen to one and the same, one and the same frightening political propaganda discourse. Unfortunately, however, we also enter the fourth year when Slovenia surrounds itself with a cutting wire, which, unfortunately, was not contributed by the extreme right, but by the political environment. The wire is our reality today. Of course, we are not opposed to the discussions on migration in Levi, but even though this debate is already going on thirty-three times or forty-four, it is no big deal, even if it is a hundred years old, but if it were at least constructive. However, we strongly oppose xenophobia and discourse, which is racist. We resist lies and manipulations. We oppose incitement to fear and hatred and to debates that have one single goal: to blame foreigners, refugees, migrants and other social minorities for all the problems in this country. To illustrate, only 6% of the population in this country are foreigners and only 0.02% are refugees; but the propagandising machine of the Slovenian Democratic Party is not failing. Day after day, he bombes us with lies about migrants. However, in order to convince citizens and citizens not only of Slovenia and Slovenia, but citizens and citizens of that country that 0.02% of refugees are at risk of 99.98% of the total population. How else if not with manipulations and lies?Oh, my God! It is interesting, however, to the right of colleagues and colleagues, that the Vatican has directly insisted on introducing certain provisions into the Marrakesh Agreement. Let me quote only the statement of the Secretary of State of Vatican Cardinal Parolin: “Only on the basis of mutual understanding can we propose a permanent response to today’s human mobility, a sustainable solution for migrants and refugees, and also for all the countries involved.” So, the Vatican, my esteemed colleagues. The Cardinal therefore stressed the importance of interstate cooperation on migration issues, which you, opponents of the Marrakesh Agreement, interpret as a global conspiracy against national sovereignty. It's also interesting that you tripped against the so-called leftist NGO. Let me tell you that there is also Slovenian Karitas among them. Slovenian Karitas spent 24 thousand working hours with migrants in 2015 alone, Slovenia Karitas joined the twenty other NGOs last year, calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a migration strategy. And not only countries, international NGOs have written this Marrakesh declaration. Let me mention just a few, because there were a lot of Catholics among them, such as the United Protestant Church in Belgium, the Protestant Social Centre, Belgium, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, the Spanish Jesuit Centre of Madrid, Karitas Barcelona, the European Jesuit Refugee Service, the European Federation of Sant'Egidio, the Catholic International Peace Movement of Pax Christi and, of course, Slovenian Karitas. What do you say to that? Since your opponents mainly refer to the Slovenian Catholic identity and to the Christian identity of Europe when you talk about the dangers of immigration, it is also quite ironic that your views are in total conflict with the official positions of the Catholic Church or the Vatican. However, as if none of this were true, the Slovenian Democratic Party continues to drive its shit into the fact that, I quote their President, “importing as many foreign migrants as possible the continuation of the Communist Manifesto project”. In its Crotovisation against migrants, in its anti-refugee delirium and in its scrupulous efforts, Slovenia's Slovenian Democratic Party goes even so far as to publicly reject Angela Merkel's policy and to blame her at the EPP Congress for being responsible for the crisis in Europe, to be responsible for brexit and to start a terrible strategic disaster, as she invited refugees to Germany in 2015. These are your words, respected colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, it is necessary to prepare the ground for Viktor Orbán and the added rise of the Fascism of Slovenia and Europe, is it not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. There's a Mr. Grimes on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just suggest that you warn the lady who has spoken now, as well as everyone who will follow, that today we are talking about the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration; we are not talking about refugees. This act does not deal with refugees, but exclusively with migration issues. Most of what the lady was talking about concerns the issue of refugees. That's something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Please, let's stick to the darkness. There's no replica here, he had procedural. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u124	President, thank you so much for your word. I have now spent most of my time in the debate room, and I have also taken advantage of the insolence mainly on the left-hand side of this House, and I would like to respond immediately to Mrs Sukič, who quoted the Cardinal of the Vatican. Nor did she think of another religious leader, the Dalai Lama. I think that this is one of the most authoritarian people in the world, by reason of reason and heart, who said that Europe belongs to Europeans. If you are already referring to church dignitaries, go to those who are respected by the whole world and are also Nobel laureates. It was said that an individual approach was not possible to deal with it with other countries. Italy and Hungary have done great. In Budapest, for Christmas holidays, people were walking around Christmas stands completely unhindered, joyful; on the other hand, not so far away, in Strasbourg, people were dying, people were dying under the murderous bullets of terrorists. Individual approach is, of course, possible, even in Italy, see what Salvini has done, things are improving. Now let me as a lawyer touch on these legal aspects of the global agreement. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia said at the last meeting of the PSC, including Mr Curin, that the mantra was not a legally binding document. That's not true. That's not true. Even your lawyers, your lawyers from your political or ideological hemisphere, such as Vasilka Sancin, deny you. What did Mrs Sancin say on November 15, 2018? “If the countries in practice are to be defined in agreement and are also to be accepted as an obligation, an agreement may be the basis for the emergence of customary international law”, Mr Brglez will probably agree, “which stems from the practice of countries and their legal consciousness. In this case, the agreement will become internationally binding." That's what Lady International Lawyer Vasilka Sancin said. Then let us discuss this with one another, and go with a coordinated dictatorship that this is not or is legally binding. I think it is. As this general practice is already being implemented, it is already in progress. It's an undeniable fact. However, the government of Marjan Sarca still claims that this will never be legally binding. It's coming, my dear, it's coming. And what is the worst; that we have heard here many times today that on the basis of this document, other legal acts will then be adopted in this temple of democracy, which will further strengthen this other immigration-oriented policy of the rulings. You are reminded that the cost per migrant is €963 thousand, that is the fact that the fact expressed by the Court of Auditors is three times the minimum wage of Slovenia, which was from 1. 1st revised to EUR 667. Unlike our people, for these 667 euros they work, they go to work, I tell you in the Maribor case, when I look at these Eritrean migrants, migrants walk through Maribor, there is no work to be done; and this is simply not fair to our Slovenian people. Therefore, let us not talk here about the cost of this consultation referendum, because your colleagues have told you, let us combine it with the European elections, and this cost will not be the case. On the other hand, hundreds of millions of euros were spent on these illegal migrations. I would also like to touch the tumultuous mass of migration. Foreign Minister Miro Cerar said it was not about mass migration. How's that? Last year's number, 9,000 illegal crossings of our border, actually proves that this current does not begin, but increases, as opposed to 2017 by five times. Not to mention the extreme mass migrations that took place in 2015. But look, you have a plastic case, 9,000 detected illegal migrations, in practice there are even more. My colleague Grimes spoke about what the Italian media said about this. But number 9,000, this is the population of the Supremes, the Logatco and the Postojna. Now imagine, so many people go illegally across our borders every year, like the three Slovenian places that I have just listed. Criminal associations, as your minister speaks, are likely to have this information; how many of them are actually put across the border, but you probably don't want it or you won't be able to detect it. I'd like to support my colleague Grims in his performance when he talks about the ghettoisation of the migrants who are coming. Do yourself a favor. On April 8, 9th, the National Assembly organizes an official excursion to Brussels, you will go and see the European Parliament. I've been there a few times. But I also went to Molenbeek, this infamous quarter, and there you will see in your eyes what a mag. Grimes speaks, that's the facts. 80 % of the specific areas of Molenbeek are in fact Muslim people, who are from head to toe curves, who respect their customs and customs and who whistle that they are actually at home two kilometres of airline from the centre of Brussels. Go to this excursion on April 8th and 9th to see Molenbeek live. I looked at him. I've been walking around this neighborhood for two hours, and I have to say, a man gets the feeling that he's actually on another planet. This is not a European civilization. Look at this on this trip in April, and then you'll see that it's not some sort of fantasy, but it's facts. I have yet to touch on these winged ones in the global agreement so that migration will bring wealth, innovation and sustainable development. Like I said, in Molenbeek, you can see it's the Middle Ages, so it's the attitude of women. By the way, Austrian Vice Chancellor Strache, which happens a few miles across the border, last time he said that only four women were killed within three weeks, with a migrant background, these crimes were committed. It's actually a few miles away from Maribor. The added value of the social capital brought by these migrants is zero for Western Europe. Knitted baskets or camel guides here simply do not have a perspective. They're not doctors of science, they're not doctors, they're not engineers, they're programmers. These people will then turn themselves over to crime, terrorist acts, and so on for reasons of unemployment. Here be very careful when you invite them here a lot, because this other winged woman, who says the camels will soon drink the water from Ren, is getting very close to us. To conclude, I am always a little joking, although I say that this last bench of ours is the last line of defence for democracy in this house of democracy; I very seriously tell you that the referendum is the last line of defence for democracy, in particular in matters directly affecting the people. Please, representatives from this left hand side, give the Slovenian people this opportunity to express themselves. I believe that without this possibility we deprive the Slovenian people of a fateful question, which at this moment does not yet appear in such a critical situation as it is in the West, but think of your children. You've got your kids, too. You probably don't want what's going on in Strasbourg, in some other country where there are also murder situations. And the government has made one big mistake. First, the position on accession to the global agreement, then totally ignored the National Assembly, then remembered that this document should be translated into Slovenian, since we are still in Slovenia and then began to translate it. Support the appeal, support this proposal, which will speak of Slovenia withdrawing from this harmful agreement for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The replica has Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. We've heard another cup of hate speech, racism, stereotypes and everything. And that with migration we have the prospect of a Middle Ages. And again, I wonder, if that's true, where did all this extreme-right hysteria come from? In the Middle Ages, they should feel at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to read three tweets first, and then I'll tell you why. One is: Illegal migrants who daily invade Slovenia are a major security issue, organised violent criminals, carrying unknown viruses, stations and similar diseases. They are slowly transforming the Slovenian security situation into a negative direction. Strong and clear action is essential. Second tweet: Today's reckoning between them, tomorrow with us. Why are they here already? Who imported them? Whose costs do they translate here and there? What is their added value to our society and country of Slovenia? And third tweet: More and more Algerians are coming to Slovenia, known as jihadists and criminals; and others who exploit our liberal asylum law. This was written by a man sitting in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Now I'm asking you, my respectable colleagues, what are we talking about? The man is in the cabinet of the President of the Government, he writes this; you say something completely different here. I don't know what kind of coalition this is. There seems to be something very wrong with you. Today, it has been said that 0.5% of foreigners or migrants in Slovenia cannot endanger the entire nation. Yesterday, however, it was very clear here, you said that 1% of private schools could endanger the existence of 99% of public education in this country. Please, what a diversion. Either you're making a fool of the Slovenian people or something really is wrong with you. And now let's get to the point. It is my personal opinion that the government does not hope to consult its citizens when it comes to the adoption of an international instrument with potentially exceptional effects on the culture and the economic future of the people. And it is pointless to talk about the nonsense of the referendum if the government does not commit itself in advance to disregarding its outcome. The referendum is the highest form of people's decision-making in the country and the convincing message of its outcome should not be ignored by any government. If I did, I wouldn't have any legitimacy to rule. And with the specific attitude of the seventh force, that is, the media, such a message would be quickly understood by the government. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I very clearly ask why we have decided on our own country. This is a very important question. And secondly, does the people really have power in Slovenia? Therefore, once again, why the government and the coalition fear the opinions of citizens and citizens, those who pay migrants housing, food, health care, clothing, that is, all the comfort that migrants receive on the Fat Cape. What about our kids? At the moment they cannot go to the Fat Rtič at sea, and this many Slovenian children who have never visited the sea. What kind of decisions we make for our citizens and citizens is that we put them in a different kind. For us children are less important than migrants, illegal and others who come into our society. And I'm not talking about pensioners with 250, 300, 400, 500 Euros of pension, workers with a minimum, not to mention disabled third category, who receive 276 Euros of monthly pension. It is said that nothing can be raised for them, no problem for migrants. Not to speak of the safety of our country, not to speak of the health of people in our country, to speak of the waiting species. Migrants are immediately in line for health care. And so on. These are the reasons why I would like to stress that, in the first place, Slovenia and Slovenia, our citizens and citizens are key to me. However, the problem of migrants must be solved where it originated, i.e. at its source. This is a matter of global policy, it is not a matter of Slovenia. Of course, it's in that part where it makes up the world map, yes. I've heard a lot about spreading fear today. I really need to tell you, ask the Europeans, ask the French, the English, the Germans, why they're afraid. And they can really be afraid of terrorist attacks, beatings, looting, destruction of property, and so on. And who does that in most cases? You can answer this question on your own because you probably know how to read foreign media. That is why I will support this proposal for a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. I would refer to Mr Shirtzl's claim by the proposaler that migrants or migrations and refugees are not a new thing, which is true. I'll present the matter more graphically or plastically. Over 2,000 years ago, we all know the story of Joseph, Mary, and Jesus. And these were the first refugees, also confirmed, which is the fact that they fled to Egypt before King Herod in order to protect or save their son. And unfortunately today, 2,000 years later, the same things happen again when families, because of their children, to save their children, run from war, from hunger, from greed of capitalism. And now I ask the candidate of the referendum – Are you in favour of abolishing human rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u132	One sentence. A colleague said they were running away from families to save their children. Then I would ask the gentleman what Ahmad Shami is doing here, who left the children in the war zone, in his own words, which I would never do. Now that the war is over, he won't come home.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u133	Miha Kordish, here's a replica. Four seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u134	Significantly, families continue to send their most vital members because they are the easiest to find and then the easiest to provide for their families. Of course, Mr Grims would not have left his children behind, as his family would not have sent him forward, since he is certainly not her most vital member.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u136	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I've always been convinced that geography determines our view of the world. I believe that former French President Charles de Gaulle is the one who is credited with the maximal saying that history is nothing more than practical geography. Migration is currently a very big European problem. All European countries want to be transitive. Not one of them wants to be the ultimate destination of migrants, so they generously serve these hot bones. We live in a openly cynical time when the countries that fought the most against the borders and walls that pledged to withdraw them are now in a hurry to set up the same borders and walls. An impartial observer would think that it is least surprising that a rich Europe with more than half a billion inhabitants cannot accept several million migrants. The problem is linguistic, religious, and cultural. A few things about this whole thing are clear. For today's debate, I would like to point out four. First, even if we could manage a major migration wave in Europe, this wave is proof of the existence of deep and lasting factors that will affect developments in the near future. These factors include political chaos in the Middle East and, more importantly, an extremely large difference in income between Europe and Africa. In the long term, the trend in population growth will become unsustainable. The population of sub-Saharan Africa will exceed the European population several times in five decades. Only an increase in economic migration can be expected from there. Secondly, the European Union has difficulty accepting migrants, not only because of cultural and religious differences, but also because Europe does not have the experience of an immigrant continent, unlike North America or Australia. It is true that some European countries have historically adopted refugees — I stress war refugees, not migrants — in large numbers, such as France during the Spanish civil war or the European Union countries during the Bosnian war. But Europe has always been a continent of emigrants and emigrants, from Hebrids and Ireland in the north to Greece and Spain in the south. South Europe is also characterised by: low and unstable economic growth, high unemployment rates and weak labour demand, including the poorest paid jobs. And these weak labour needs also prevent the employment of immigrants. Thirdly, the European Union has made mistakes in recent years that have deepened the crisis and created instability at its external borders. One such mistake was the senseless overthrow of the Libyan regime, which was replaced by tribal wars and an irresistible chaos, in which control over all the borders of that country was completely lifted on the surface of a very large country. Therefore, European politicians should think deeply about and question their own arrogance and incompetence of their policies. The European Union is in the process of transformation; from the source of stability to the exporter of political and economic disorder. Fourthly, the European Union has no response to the current migration crisis. The European Union is simply lost, without strategy, without ideas and without policies. Even the problem is not simple. The only way that can lead to a solution is a multi-lateral approach, but it must not only be limited to the countries of the European Union, but must include all the countries from which migrants come. But such a multi-lateral approach requires extraordinary efforts to coordinate between European, African and Asian countries. Above all, it calls for a European consensus on the fact that Europe will have to adopt a large influx in the coming 50s of the people of foreign countries because that is what demographics and economic inequality require. None of these two conditions have been met. With all further political improvisations, the problem of migration will only get worse. The main question, as I see it today, is: Is the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration the right answer to European improvisation? I don't think even the bearer of the transcendent knows the answer to that; God loves, according to your own words. The global agreement is said to constitute a legally non-binding cooperation framework whereby participating countries reaffirm the sovereign right of each country to formulate its national migration policy in accordance with international law. Two words are worth stressing: legally non-binding and strengthening sovereign justice. As a sovereign country, I think we can draw a certain consistency from this. When it happens, if it happens, a new migratory wave, we will depend exclusively on ourselves. We will depend on our financial resources, human capabilities, technical and material resources; and on no one else. If there is a new migratory wave, ladies and gentlemen, it will also be completely irrelevant and will not count as such and not as a different decision at a possible referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to tell you what shocked me most yesterday and today when I heard the debates in the National Assembly. Of course, it is a photograph that a fellow Member of the Magi showed in the National Assembly yesterday. Branko Grimes. When one of the Members wants to highlight something in particular, he brings a subject for the speaker, such as WD-40, I think it was Ambassador Janez Janša, or he lights a candle like the former Ambassador Mirko Kaplja, who wanted more lights in this house, or a photograph, as he did yesterday. Grims and stressed that he's showing the revolutionary Chey Guevara, who with a gun shoots two teenage girls. Was he a magician yesterday? Did Grimms seduce him or did he show false photos and give false information? As the officer reported today, it was supposed to be a photograph taken 22 years after the death of Che Guevara. When he was reminded today by his fellow Member, Predrag Baković, he is a magician. Grimes said the photograph was only symbolic. So it's mag. Grimes was not speaking the truth about this photograph yesterday, but he was adjusting the facts. So there's no Che Guevara on it who's supposed to kill two teenage girls. Years ago, Youth magazine published a photo, and you know what I mean, they were both real, real. However, the context of this publication was important. At that time, Ambassador Grimes protested and sued the magazine. Neither did I agree with the Youth magazine’s move and the comparison they made with it. That's what I'm thinking today. I can't even get past the archival documents that were available to me in the parliamentary group years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u139	Mr Bevk, I'd like you to stick to the agenda and content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u140	I'm talking about the facts that are turning around yesterday and today. I'll be brief. I'll be done soon. May I have your attention, please? On this drafting of documents, when they drew up some documents, they wanted to compromise the then President of the Republic, Dr. Danil Türk, in connection with the bombing or the attack in Veliovac, Koroška. Stealing the truth and knowingly manipulating the facts will not get us far. I'm afraid there's nothing to look forward to. I propose, however, that this is the subject of today's session, to carefully analyse in the coming days the magnetogram of the 16th point of the 4th regular session on the proposal for a consultation referendum on the treatment of migration and to determine how many false, orderly and detailed facts were received by the Slovenian public when accompanying this debate through the 3rd programme of national television. Of course, it is also clear that I will not support the call for a referendum. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Today we are talking about the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal for a consultative referendum on the Marrakesh Agreement. By the way, the debates have gone on as far as possible, and I think it would be better if we actually focus on the content or what we are talking about today and it is also on the agenda. There's been a lot of talk about refugees, migrants and so on. We're not talking about either refugees or migrants coming here legally, but we're talking about illegal migrants, and that's the point. We all know what the problem is. There are problems all over Europe, with luck a little less, but they do not appear in Hungary and elsewhere. That I may not say anything wrong, that there will be no replicas or anything else, I will chronologically touch some things or point out some things that seem essential to me in this proposal for a consultation referendum on the Marrakesh Agreement. First of all, I'm just gonna tell you what we got with these illegal migrants. I was directly involved when these crowds came to us. We made a lot of expenses, we had a lot of destroyed trains and buses, and a lot of overburdened police officers and everyone else who had to deal with these large numbers of migrants who came to us without a name and surname, without knowing where they came from, without documents, and so on. Well, that's probably what we all know, so it doesn't have to be emphasized in particular. Then we got a wire on the border, pretty inappropriate, and not everywhere, so we didn't solve much with that wire. The country has huge costs with these illegal migrants. This has also been discussed by the proposer and also by Jan Mahnič, as well as by all others, a great deal of cost and time. And when one wonders why it takes so much for illegal migrants, on the other hand, we ourselves know what problems we have in the country, how we are doing in every way possible to provide sufficient funds for the most pressing matters. Yesterday, too, my colleague Reberšek talked about collecting stoppers, old paper, so that people with disabilities could even get the basics for survival; and the minister and the minister there just put them at the table. No one can say that these things are unrelated. If we give a lot of money for illegal migration, for these migrants who are then staying with us, then obviously the money is enough and we should have it for some other things that I think are more important. A lot of words have been said here, from fascism to not knowing what all beneath all levels, people just feel when they listen to this. And I don't know what kind of message we give to young people with this kind of talk, this kind of behavior. Did the elderly who had already survived in this country deserve this?Oh, my God! I don't insult anyone, and I don't judge anyone, but whatever they think, everyone has an opinion, everyone can tell their opinion, and I won't object. I must also say that I have been elected by the people, by the electorate; and whoever insults me or my execution will also insult my constituents, or Slovenia and Slovenia. Finally, migration may always have been and will always be. We all agreed on that. But once again, we are talking about illegal migration and let's not mix the concepts of migration that are, that are, and that have nothing to do with illegal migration and with this massive arrival of illegal migrants. Mr Jan Mahnic also said a lot on behalf of the party about the media, about the placement of migrants in front of our citizens, about surveys on multiculturalism. We could all fully understand him when he presented the Marrakesh Agreement here in very detail. And I was surprised by some who were surprised to hear it from the bench, as if they had never heard it or read it. In the end, maybe that's all. If I were to learn from people at the consultation referendum what they want, then the country could probably make a slightly different decision than this approach to the Marrakesh agreement. Many people opposed it, and we all know it, and we should take people’s views into account. I therefore propose that this consultation referendum be held. Referendums, polls are being done for many things that are also much less important when we follow the example of Switzerland and other countries that have more advanced democracy than we do. In Switzerland, for example, they have a referendum on whether cows will cut horns. What a banal question, but they ask about such things; but so that we don't ask people about such an important question where money is being spent and where we can worry about our security, it seems rather inappropriate not to ask people. Finally, I would only say that Brazil has also withdrawn from the agreement, so it is not true that Slovenia could not withdraw from this agreement. And also interesting information, which is very fresh that it has been in Italy since the government took over Salvini, 95% less migration in last year. So once again, I suggest that we all think carefully together and support this proposal after the consultation referendum and allow people to decide for themselves and tell themselves what they want and what kind of life they want in our country. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Mr Pojbič of the Slovenian Democratic Party would like to ask that he does not mislead the public and the entire National Assembly when he says that migrants reside on the Fat Rut. There are no migrants on the Fat Rite. Also, the Red Cross youth spa works as usual. I think kids can take a vacation on the Fat Rite as usual. Let me get to my discussion. In my debate, I will not deal too much with the content of illegal migration. In this national assembly today and many times before, we have heard much about this subject, everything — from completely inappropriate, even hostile speech to constructive interpretations and proposed solutions. Together, we have found that the problem of migration, particularly illegal, global, is a multi-layer phenomenon that is generated outside our powers and borders. Therefore, it cannot be resolved only at local level, with radical measures such as the setting up of fences and similar measures. In addressing the issues of illegal migration and refugees, it is necessary to first identify and address the reasons for their emergence. We must accept the fact that migration is part of our everyday reality. Migrations have been happening, happening, and happening. The reasons are different, but they don't really change. We all want peace and, above all, a quality life, and we all have the right to do so. However, as regards the proposal for a consultation referendum on the treatment of migration tabled by the SDS and SNS Group for consideration and adoption in the National Assembly, I believe that the initiative is possible and legitimate but irrelevant. The Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative provides that the proposal for an advisory referendum should address the issue under the competence of the National Assembly, which is of wider importance to citizens, but at the same time the Council has not yet taken a final decision on this issue. A global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration is a political document that is not legally binding. It does not commit individual countries to amending national legislation and in no way interferes with their constitutional arrangements, nor will it become part of common international law. I therefore consider that this content is not a decision under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and has no legal basis. The referendum question and the explanation do not give rise to the decision of the National Assembly concerning the consultative referendum. There is also no proposal for an act in the procedure for the adoption of the acts of the National Assembly, which would be linked to the call for a proposed consultation referendum. Therefore, there is no reason and conditions for adoption of the initiative from this formal point of view. The global agreement on migration is, by its content, an agreement on the participation of countries in addressing the causes of migration, preventing irregular migration and trafficking in human beings and promoting safe, orderly and legal migration. Slovenia has always advocated the view that a comprehensive, cooperative approach is needed to address migration. This is close cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination, together with relevant international organisations. This is the fundamental purpose of the global agreement. I will also try to resolve this issue in a patient, professional and effective manner. As has already been said, I will not support the proposal for a consultation referendum for material and formal reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Janez Janša has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Last December, there was a similar debate in the German Parliament or in the Bundestag about the same global agreement, which has the popular title of the Marrakesh Declaration, and people know this global agreement. In this debate in the German Parliament, the German Government advocated support for this agreement with the following argument: the adoption of this agreement is in the German national interest so that not only Germany will be the most desirable target of illegal migration. So vote for migration pressure to spread to other European and developed world countries. This is in the German national interest. And it's in German national interest. Because now most of those who come to Europe want to go to Germany because they think Germany wants them, even though it doesn't want them anymore. But four years ago, they gave these signals. When it came to voting in the German Parliament, the German Members voted in favour of this global agreement with the consciousness to vote for something of German national interest; and they were right. In Slovenia, the extreme left here today advocates something that is in German national interest, which is a special phenomenon not only in Slovenia, but in Europe in general. It is true that it is a confusing text that anyone can find in it what he wants if they want to quote only one page so that no country directly forces it to change legislation. There are even phrases that say that nothing interferes with the sovereignty of countries. But there are sentences where he says that countries are committed to doing something. You're all right when you quote individual sentences. But if you read the whole thing, you can see that it's a confusing, under the line, harmful document that has negative consequences already with its creation, because it divides the world, shares Europe, divides Slovenia at a time when you should look for real solutions for the causes that cause the migration crisis. The first direct consequence, after this aclamation document has been adopted and then supported by the General Assembly of the United Nations, is the creation of maps where countries that are friendly to immigration and countries that are not friendly to this attack. And Slovenia is drawn as a friendly country for migration because it has supported this. And this map soon comes into the hands or screens of mobile devices of all those who are looking for a better life in the developed world. And some of the good luck that Slovenia has had so far, because no one wanted to stay with us, because they considered us a former communist state, even part of the Soviet Union, and so on, because they knew little about Slovenia, this is now changing to our harm, which is also shown by the decisions of the police on Kolpa, when everyone automatically applies for asylum and many remain here. Some people get their ties ahead, but many stay because we are just an illegal migration-friendly country. It is very interesting that the extreme left in Slovenia supports the German national interest in this case. A few weeks ago, Slovenia hosted an eminent guest, who was completely ignored by the majority regime media, which is a unique case in Europe, I must say. This is where the Secretary-General of the largest Islamic organization in the world was. Mr Staquf, Secretary-General of the Indonesian Islamic Conference, which has 50 million members in 300 million Indonesia, which is the largest Muslim country in the world. Mr Staquf said some very interesting things on the public stand as well as in some interviews, unfortunately not on national television, which we pay her to report on at least such interesting things. A Muslim, an official of the largest Muslim organization. The first thing he said was that he agreed with the Dalai Lama that Indonesia belonged to the Indonesians, that Europe belonged to Europeans, and everyone has the right to regulate their affairs in their own backyard. The second thing he said and is interesting to us is that the Islamic State is not something that occurred a few years ago as a result of the interference of Western forces in the Middle East, in the territory of Iraq, Syria and so on, but that the Islamic State under the same name, with the same programme tried to take Indonesia decades ago, and that Indonesia then accounted for this attempt. There was an extraordinary number of victims at the time, and then the Indonesian Islam was modernized. And he said: This Islam that you are facing in Europe today, but it would be difficult to say that it is radical Islam; it is a majority Islam that is radical, which has not been modernised. And this Islam uses mass migration for Jihad, for holy war, for its purposes, which it publicly proclaims; only you are so crazy that you can't read it. And it's not a problem of radical Islam, as you say, the problem is Islam as it surrounds you and as it is with you. By the way, his organization in Indonesia, which also has a strong Jewish and predominantly Christian minority, protects the sacral facilities of these minorities during their religious holidays so that they can serve in peace. Some voices of reason that come from environments that know the origin of threats that have also been successfully faced, we simply do not want to hear. And then here we hear about a fascist Hungary, where if you go to Budapest, you don't even see a cop with a long-term weapon; at the same time, in a socialist suburb of what European big city bombs are laying, there are sirens. Wherever you step, you run into three soldiers with fast-shooters. Which city reminds you more of fascism? The answer is itself known. One more thing about numbers. So far, we have heard much about how the Slovenian government in 2015, when we faced the immigration crisis, has somehow been left alone, how no one helped her and so on. As far as this side of Parliament is concerned, we have supported all the measures that have been proposed, including constitutional change, whatever it is possible to make this wave cool. However, I will not explain to you what the meetings of the National Security Council looked like at that time, what confusion it was and how incompetent the members of the Government of the virtually the same coalition behaved in those first weeks. If people could see that, they wouldn't practically exist anymore. It is important that half a million illegal migrants passed through Slovenia at the time, fortunately to others. Imagine that 20 million illegal migrants, 20 million, would pass through Germany during the same period of time, which is a quarter of the population. What was the reaction there? I think you'd take anything other than a Marrakesh declaration. And even more important numbers for us are numbers about demography. In Slovenia, 53 children are born every day according to the latest data and 54 citizens die. Every day, one minus, at the same time, almost 50 people move out of Slovenia every day and about that many move in. You can think for yourself who moves out and who moves in and what comes out of our country. The negative trends that you can see in this, with such moves, you only encourage. One who sees in some multiculturality the future of Slovenia and Europe is living in great illusions. Those who advocate or defend this most in Iran, in the Islamic State, in Saudi Arabia are left without hands or hanged from cranes. That's the multiculturality. We will always defend diversity, good cooperation with different cultures, and at the same time the defence of European civilisation that has emerged over the centuries, which has been paid a high price and which we do not intend to give up so far over the thumb. We also want to speak Slovenian after five generations in Slovenia, that Slovenian culture is dominant and that we operate in Europe within the framework of European civilisation; not some multiculturalism. And since this is a existential issue, Slovenian citizens have the right to decide for themselves at the referendum. And there will be no unnecessary costs for this referendum to be held in May, at the same time as the European elections; and with these arguments that you have cited here today, you will probably convince 20% of people to support you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much. On the list of applicants are the following four: mag. Branislav Rajić, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, Dr. Milan Brglez and Robert Pavšič. First he gets the word "magic." Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, everyone! We've heard a lot today, and one of us is going to say too much. The arguments that were given, I listened, some I accept, I understand, but they didn't convince me. Migration is a natural process, and that's what they taught us in primary school. In order to illustrate this, to remind you, the best thing is with the case, a thousand 400 years ago, there were Slavs, tribes living somewhere in Zakarpat. I'll give you an example, lived, say, one Prapraprarajić and one Praprapragrims. They could have been coworkers like us here, and for example, they had sheep. The sheep are known to be white and black, much more white, less black, but I am sure Praprarajić and Prapragrims did not destroy black lambs at all because they found that milk, cheese, meat is exactly the same. When it comes to wool color, Praprarajić and Prapragrims found that when you knit two colors of wool, you will get samples; and it was practically created in some way also by this. But the climate did not match, and they even decided that there was another area to look for, different living conditions; and they left. They may have wondered in ways that were then possible, or the people who live where they want to go may have described a referendum on the acceptance or non-acceptance of migrants. And because they did not receive this information, they courageously, like even the tribes, decided to go to this migration. And today we live here a thousand 400 years later as satisfied people, exemplary society, the top of European civilization, even the world if you will. A well-known handsome slager – A thousand years from now when we are gone, a good question may also be asked instead of a referendum question, whether it is really an important question today or perhaps more important what we will build for the craftsmen. Who knows! I understand fear as a phenomenon and we all feel fear in one way or another; but I do not understand it or see no reason to fear an agreement that ensures the order of migration, i.e. one also of the cataclysmic forces that you cannot stop, but you can approach it organised in society with others who are willing to do so in the same way. I think there is an answer here because, with this agreement of Slovenia, no one forces us to accept the treasuries of migrants; in fact, it only helps us to know that the way to do this is to work together, together, organized and safer for all of us. That's why it really seems to me that the fear among people is ugly, that it's a step away from repression, from all that we're fighting as a democracy. It is true, however, that I must also express my agreement with my forerunner that migration, which is emerging in our time, is the greatest interest of one country that needs new blood and new labour or more labour. But I really don't think there's a referendum to protect us, but there's certainly no loneliness to keep us from feeling safe from it. We can choose by means of the legislation we create, the best way to resist it, to make a filtration, to try to get better not only surgeons, but also everyone else, because society needs everything. I will also take a good look at this comparison, which was said to be similar to what happened in Slovenia in 2016, with 20 million migrants going through Germany. But here, too, we must honestly agree that the government of Mira Cerar has completely managed this well and that we have not felt this to a greater extent than any other country in Europe. In fact, we were given as role models, which we must not overlook. Whatever government comes, I believe it will stick to it. And at first, I was surprised by the referendum issue, but also by the Foreign Policy Committee, I know that colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party have good lawyers and would not deliberately ask a question that is legally unacceptable. And it gave me the impression that this was just proof that they had asked a question that was already leading to an answer, which was unacceptable. All they wanted to do was upset the public. That's proof they only wanted attention. And this question, as we look at it and write it, would I dare to read – Did Slovenia spend another EUR 3 million of budget money to spread intolerance and support the right political option? I don't see anything but this. We had the same stories again, re-editing data on consumption for one migrant. When I came as a newbie, I listened to my rhetorical colleague Grimes, and I actually appreciate her. I must say that man is eloquent, rhetoric is good; otherwise it is a shame that he has wasted it today because I think his range is higher. And I don't like that with the help of what we're talking about today, people are looking for and talking about people who are unhappy about completely other things that need support; and they're given some fairy tales like some bad consolation. That's not fair. Let me be forgiven, I will repeat my thought on the board that the difference in these fairy tales that we are listening to is not only in one letter of Grimm and Grimes' last name. The difference is that Grimm's childhood stories are for all of us, all of us, proof or sign of the development of our civilization; the Grimes are unfortunately proof of her sadness; therefore I cannot support the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much. One change came in, so he'll get the word of Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. What I would like to start with is what drags through the entire debate and was initially exposed. Even at one point, I was mentioned to legalize the Marrakesh agreement, which was another of the misunderstandings. The way in which this point was gradually developed has led to the fact that many here, and particularly the proponents, were not initially able to distinguish between the Marrakesh political declaration, which was created within the framework of the European Union and its cooperation with Africa within the Rabat Process, where it can be shown with the finger back to the applicants; and on the other hand, the global agreement, we can say the Marrakesh agreement again, but not everywhere, the declaration applies, this is a global agreement on safe, controlled and orderly migrations or for such migrations, because it has such an objective that we want — from a state of irregularity to a state of order. And the third thing that I have actually received this week is an answer from Minister Restoring to the question of when will we implement the Marrakesh Treaty on facilitating access to literary works for blind and visually impaired people and people with other reading problems. So three completely different things. The first two are only so similar that they contain a plan on how to resolve matters in agreement with the countries of origin of migration. The second one, of course, is global. It provides a framework for mutual cooperation, i.e. international cooperation, is not legally binding – it has also been opposed in any way. For this reason, I will then tell you under what conditions this matter could be legally binding. And already this mixing was the first starting point in the whole thing, so we need this. However, the last speaker on that side finally confirmed what the wish is – it is a political programme for European elections. Simple. If we put this issue at the same time as the European elections, it is absolutely clear – a political programme that will try to address people. And for all these reasons, someone can't be, at least in his right mind, for such a referendum. The other thing that matters is self-indulgence with its name on it. I have pointed out several times that the speech on irregular migration, which is a quick speech, skips the procedure by which illegality is identified; and this is also the only safeguard we have in democratic societies where the rule of law does not take place in order to avoid arbitration. And now you know that the greatest enemy of human rights is that kind of arbitrariness, and that's why our constitutional order puts them so high on the pedestal or from it – everything has to be read through human rights. If you read the comment of our constitution, you will come to the same. Everything, a fundamental constitutional charter and our constitution must be read through human rights. This was in the domain of those who founded this country. Therefore, failure to do so is the failure of the state and, consequently, the cancelling of the European civilisation on which it is discussed. In order for this agreement to be binding and to have a referendum on it, it should, in principle, be an international treaty. She's known to be ratified. However, since this is a political agreement, it is a framework of cooperation from which new treaties can emerge, but we will ratify you in this national assembly. There may be new laws, but we will have to take you into this national assembly. As such, these fundamental dilemmas will always remain, yes, because, in order for a matter to be bound by international law, it must be accepted in this way. Of course, different names appear in international law, as we say, but some things are only clear. We separate contracts independently of what we call them, and on the other hand, what colleagues have also talked about there is customary international law. Yes, international law usually arises if there is a relatively equal practice of countries accompanied by legal consciousness. There has to be one and the other. Not that it's left to each other now, but it has to exist. And it's just turning into a principle. Compared to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which has been so pamfletically written, there are really only principles. First, this document is much longer; from it some aspects can sometimes turn into normal law. Yes, it is always possible; but only if the countries also implement it and if it is accompanied by legal consciousness. It is not possible to exclude this possibility entirely, but that everything and that, contrary to the wishes or interests of individual countries, would arise an international customary law that would bind it, but not. But it's very important to know one thing. At the end of this process, only countries that explicitly voted against it were important for the creation of such a law. And at the end of the process, it was literally 5: Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Israel and the United States alone. Everyone else has either withdrawn or allowed the matter to be accepted, either at the conference level or later confirmed within the United Nations, where an agreement has also been reached on refugees, which is not problematic, as it only renews what is already in existing international law. This international law is an important issue for us, and it also comes immediately to our constitution, above our legislation. But usually, when we come to these matters in practice, it's international treaties that are at this level, not anything else. As far as international customary law already exists, this exists only at the level of principles, but not of sufficiently specific rules, from which they can directly enforce legal obligations. Therefore, it is essential to know that we can understand why a commitment is recorded so many times in the document itself. But for someone who knows at least international law, there is nothing wrong or surprising about other documents. We also translate multilateral treaties differently after they are actually designed on an international level, not before it. But bilateral. In bilaterals, however, the knowledge of the text, the clear landing of the National Assembly, and so on, is the one that is key. There was nothing surprising going on here, nothing like that that would have been hidden if anyone had just wanted to see it. In addition, what was happening in the European framework was either direct or indirect, like all the other issues that were related at the time to refugee and migration issues, they were addressed. And one of the things where they were placed was our Strategy for International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid, which is at European level, we also have such documents there, and also at national level, including migration. And from there, that money that was supposed to be, but it couldn't be completely spent, anything else, but it's another topic that I wouldn't want to go into. So I don't want to legitimize stupidity or ignorance. Another such thing, which I have seen at the outset today and with which I want to politicize, is adoption also in the Pamphletistic texts of opponents. In particular, this is the text with which Jean-Louis Harouel was operated today, who wrote an agreement that wants to close the mouth of every migration critic. Inside it was used by Viktor Hugo's quote. But such as was presented by Ambassador Horvath, it will not be true. First of all, most of what Harowell wrote himself was quoting as Hugo, that's not going to work. And on the other hand, Hugo opposed the wealth of a handful and spoke in exactly the opposite of what Harouel first adopted and all those who repeat after him. One such characteristic quote from Hugo: “A society that accepts suffering, a humanity that recognises war, is a society less valuable to me, and an educated humanity. I look forward to a better society and a more advanced humanity. To a society without kings, to mankind without borders.« So in the opposite direction. It's not right, even if great authority lends it to us to repeat these things. Some authors simply do not participate in a particular debate; Hugo is certainly among them. A comparison of the non-comparable has already been mentioned. On the one hand, the total cost for the migrant and, on the other hand, the minimum wage or anything else. No, no, no. In this case, if we want to compare this, then the total costs of the migrant and, on the other hand, the total costs, whether indirect or direct, which belong to the citizen in any way; and this is much higher than the amounts referred to. Or to compare €18 with a minimum wage, which is possible. That's comparable. Since we are in law, at least as far as international protection is concerned, we have narrowed this social work down so that it is unwise to talk about it. There's only one procedure. And finally about national interest. Yes, the German national interest can be defined by the German Parliament. The Slovenian national interest is regulated by the world. An orderly world ruled by the rule of law. We're too small to handle things without it. The contribution of this global agreement is to a more predictable world, and only in the foreseeable world do we have any options; otherwise we will be forced or blackmailed by anyone who is a little stronger than us. A world where everything depends solely on power is not a world that is good for countries like Slovenia. It is also possible to survive, most likely to survive, but it would be wise to think that such a world and those who contribute to the disorder of the world are not in our national interest. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Good evening again! It is becoming increasingly clear that neither migration nor referendum are the main issue or agenda. The main issue is credibility. The problem is the argument that we've been witnessing to her for quite some time. It seems to me that I have been in Parliament for several years, and I am only a bad six months. We heard: serial slaughters, rapes, bed urinating, stations, infectious diseases; then suddenly our poor disabled, children, pensioners were involved. Speaking of violence, maybe a little bit of statistics, not police statistics, but research. In Slovenia, family violence of jealousy or revenge prevails as part of acts of violence. Domestic violence is experienced by 73% of Slovenes, 71% of whom are women, the most psychological, 63% physical, 7% economic and 4% sexual violence; and within families. I am happy to hear the arguments, even on this side, to devote many times to the sun and not to throw everyone in the same basket, but on average today is not very encouraging. We have heard quite a few facts on which the proposal for a referendum was argued today, but when you check them a little, they delay credibility. Some of this puzzling credibility has already been highlighted by my colleagues, and I'd add one myself. If we look at our northern neighbours who have resigned from the so-called global agreement, say, Hungary has been processed by a colleague of Kordish, they have other internal problems and they have no problems with migrants, but they have problems with their workers, they have problems with Roma, they have problems with the homeless. We know that the current policy in Italy is rather unpopular to migrants, but at the same time it operates in Italy, the evangelical community, which has established an air bridge with countries where people are fleeing for such or other reasons, and with open hands they accept them into their society and help them become Italians and contribute something to society. At the outset, however, I was stabbed by one of the points raised by the proposer, namely, Mrs E. S., because we only know her by initials, and she was convicted because she was, at the meeting of the extreme right now, demeaningly speaking of religious doctrine, with a hostile purpose. So she wasn't convicted of content, she was convicted of purpose. And a fine of some 100 euros has been awarded, you will not believe it, the Austrian court, that is, a court of state that has not acceded to the global agreement. So this agreement can't directly affect what you've been saying all along. The judgment was also confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights. Austria, once again, has not acceded to the global agreement. So it is not the censorship of the opposite opinions, but far from that, everyone must have the right to say what he thinks, but it is the infliction of untruths with a purpose, whether humiliating or degrading. But if this is an unconsciousness, then it is not only a matter of political responsibility, but it must be seen even more widely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the Magi proposalr gets the floor. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. I have to say, I've been looking forward to it. As far as the statement you're saying was wrong. As far as I know, I've been reading that case, I don't know the circumstances, I admit it, but it was only because she was convicted of stating that Muhammad was called a pedophile. Unless we're talking about the same thing. Then we're gonna have to sort this out a little bit. It's the same as that picture you all remembered so much earlier. On one website there is doubt about it and it is extremely leftist. But there are thousands of pages and it does not say anywhere — and it has repeatedly circled around Slovenia — that anything is wrong with it. No one's ever expressed any doubt. She's been on the Internet a number of times. And when I use it in good faith, now you're all shouting that I'm lying. That's very interesting. He says more about you than he does about me, but if he wasn't afraid of me, they wouldn't be offended. Well, let's go to a fairy tale first. Mr. Rajic was talking about fairy tales. You know how it is with fairy tales. In Marrakesh, 150 of the connected countries that love each other gather and declare that all people are good and that all migrations are great. And then the two girls who hear it, they're happy to go to Marrakesh, all happy, and they're in the cruelest way to be beheaded. End of story. So, ladies and gentlemen, the left-wing fairy tales end and the truth begins. The international environment today is such that for what naive fairy tales there is no room. But there is plenty of room for responsibility for its citizens and citizens. And I've been pointing that out for four years now when you say four years is the same. Where did the Schengen go? The Schengen has fallen to Europe twice – in Greece and Slovenia. In Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, that is why we have talked so much about this. Throughout Slovenia, someone illegally, knowingly illegally, has released 530,000 illegal migrants. Of these, 220 thousand did not take their fingerprints, which is completely contrary to international commitments, regulations, everything. And we live in a strange country. If any of us put one illegal migrant in the trunk and take him across the border, they get him, he'll get about three years in jail. But if you illegally take 530 thousand illegal migrants across the border, you become the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, this is where the left-wing fairy tale begins, but it's also actually true. Moreover, we could say that by surrounding Slovenia, unfortunately, with wires, with control at the borders that we have long since removed, when the Schengen border has grown again, unfortunately on our northern side; and the only question is how much will it grow again. As you know, she's being extended indefinitely. We can say that under the leadership of Dr. Mir Cerar, he put 530 thousand illegal migrants through Slovenia, putting Slovenia on the brink of collapse. And if I paraphrase the central media that glossises these days of Charc, with Mr Sarc and his signature of the Marrakesh Declaration, Slovenia has taken a huge step forward, across the borders, ladies and gentlemen, into failure. For the problem we face is simple. Home, ladies and gentlemen, home is the country. And the country is home. The country is home to all who live in it. And those who live in it have the right to decide who can come to the country. Only that was the basis of what we wanted to present a referendum, that people should decide who they wanted and who they did not want. For the act which is before us today equals all things on the average. While talking about one another and then talking about another – regardless of origin, regardless of status, all have the same rights, all have the same access, all have the same privileges, there is no problem anymore. If anyone doubts, ladies and gentlemen, let those who have migrants at home raise their hand when you have so much to say. I would be very happy if everyone who advocates migration had about ten migrants at home. And I think after a few months, we'd have a very nice and rational conversation. And if you don't have them at home, don't impose them on others. It's a simple fact. The dilemma ahead of us can be shown in a very simple way. The point was given by one of your colleagues, perfectly who said – Tell me where he will come if the country closes the border; and where he will come if he opens it. We're all for being open. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of an open border country is Sweden. No country has accepted any more migrants in the field of radical Islam than Sweden. Sweden is now on its way to becoming a third world country. A country where people don't feel safe, a country where Slovenians return to Slovenia made good money because it's just not what they should be. The country that closed the borders is Switzerland, ladies and gentlemen; and I am for Slovenia to be Switzerland. It's very simple to show. What we are really talking about when we are talking about the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration, as the very misleading title is. The agreement is not global at all, and the most important countries have withdrawn from it, with the US at the helm. What are we talking about? We are talking about an act adopted in clear contradiction with laws and constitution, behind the back of people, behind the National Assembly, in clear contrast with Article 3, under which the Government is obliged to inform the National Assembly of all important matters in the field of international relations. Moreover, contrary to the constitutional norm of Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, according to which the official language is Slovenian. Because at the time of the decision, the official translation was not available at all. That's not the worst of it. You know, the worst part is that some ministers have admitted they don't know foreign languages. This was therefore voted by the government, whose ministers did not understand at all what they were voting on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the leadership of the country and the responsibility of its citizens and citizens. And then you blindly defend this and that the previous government was no better. As far as respect for legality is concerned, I have already explained in one part of the introduction, and I add that, when the text was confirmed, this was essentially one of the decisive moments, because then it is difficult to change anything; last spring that government had no more powers, the government was resigning and was empowered only to take urgent measures, and certainly not for something as long-term as the validation of a text of the agreement. From the beginning to the end, everything is illegal and even in clear contradiction to the Constitution. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I will never agree to the logic that it is valid; unfortunately, it is already being implemented. Here we go further, namely, by 2013 one thing was understood by migration, those normal migrations, someone goes to work, people are reported to each other, some have gone to Gastarbeit for long or forever to other countries. These were the usual migrations we all understood; and if you look at the agreement, it all touched on it. After that, the rule of law was raised somewhere under the sky and one part of the European Union's acquis and one part of the rule of law was suspended. This was all really contrary to the principles of the rule of law and is still in full respect of migrants. Even when Cerar opened the borders, you all know that. This is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and then mass illegal migration started, and that is something else. And when you said before that it was a question of credibility; yes, the question of your credibility is true because you constantly mixed this, like this mixture of this together squawk document, which has neither tail nor head. It can be interpreted in its own way, but unfortunately, it has some serious traps. Mass migration in history has always brought only destruction and death. The end of civilizations, the end of nationals, the end of countries, the end of everything you make up. [[…]] And how's that going? If you look at Rome, this is an extremely interesting story also for the current experience of Europe. Rome enjoyed the bacchanals, lost its pure compass, today it would have been said to have been a party, and German tribes were allowed across the border. One generation was still loyal, then they raised their heads and swords and Rome fell. The end of Roman civilization, the Dark Middle Ages began, and apparently some of you don't want to learn anything from it. What does migration really mean today? First of all, this is no escape from anything. Today, migration is an organized movement of people from one end to the other, making everyone involved a tremendous service. This is the most profitable and also one of the most dirty businesses in the world that even exists. It's just business, that's all. Whoever else is talking is talking to me. Migration is just business. And this also follows from this agreement. Even a chapter of the agreement is devoted to how money will be raised to promote migration. Interesting. That's why I said we could call him Orwell-Soros. Orwell because he is based on lies, and Soros because he gives the opportunity to those who serve in it, and in fact he legalizes it further and further. What is really going on under the cover of these migrations? There is an invasion of true Islam into Europe. As many videos as you want, when people come here and yell, we are Islam, we will rule Europe and so on. And don't think it's unorganized. Some secret services are also involved in this, either from the Asian or the Less Asian region. And you know that very well for everyone who's dealing with it. That's why it's absurd. Or it is not unusual for people to lose their children, lose their families, lose their older ones, lose all their personal documents, and never lose new iPhones. Isn't that interesting? Any fugitives, or whatever you've told them before, that's it?Oh, my God! It's an organized invasion. And now the problem. I said it was an invasion of true Islam. What did Erdogan say? Erdogan needs to be listened to. Erdogan said that true Islam is always radical. Here we go. And then it happens just like that fairy tale I told at the beginning. The experience that all countries have received is quite contrary to the starting point that you have advocated here today. “Yes, we must resolve this together.” The starting point that all countries have experienced in their own four years is that we can rely on ourselves alone and exclusively; we can rely on no one else. Italy, too, at the time that it was taken over by Salvini, closed its borders and stopped looking at everyone else and started putting things in the right place, starting to get rid of the adhesion, and it seemed that it was already completely driven by a flood of migrants. So you can if you want to. And there are also cases in the Visegrad Group. These are countries whose cooperation should be an example to the European Union, and at the same time they are countries that can protect their citizens and citizens. And that's really what this is about. For this act of misleading names is based on lies, on the lie that all migrations are always the foundation of prosperity, the foundation of progress, the foundation of development, and I do not know what else. That's not true. This applies as long as individual, normal migrations are concerned, as we once understood them. However, when it comes to mass migration of illegal migrants, of course this is no longer the case, even if you subsequently want to legalise them as you are trying with this act. Then where's that coming from? You said - you're scaring. I don't know who's scary, ladies and gentlemen. As far as I read official statistics, in Slovenia we have already had an attempted murder with an iron baton, a physical assault with attempted murder, multiple cases of sexual violence, robbery, theft; and we have also had the murder of a machete policeman. When I talked about it two years ago, I was, like always on your side, tired of lying, and about 20 times. And then the last time a cop came in, he said it on TV; but now it's okay. But that someone might say, "I'm sorry, for we have wrongly offended you; but it doesn't come to your mind." That's what it takes to be a grandfather. What is the solution to this story is, for the first time, to find a way to withdraw from this act. You can do that. The proof of this is Brazil, which, on the right hand side won without difficulty, withdrew from this act. This stops giving the wrong signal to migrants, how welcome they are here, how we will accept everything and so on. And that solves quite a bit of the problem. Then we need to protect our borders and then we need to take care of our citizens and citizens, everything, without exception, that they can live a life worth living. And it is necessary to preserve Slovenia in all its qualities. What is Slovenia really? If you look at the Fundamental Constitutional Charter, it is a country of the Slovenian people. The Slovenian people are its inseparable constituent part of Slovenia. If you remove it, it is no longer Slovenia, so this process must be halted when migrants are imported; however, it is established by left-wing governments so unfavourable conditions for life and, above all, for entrepreneurship that the most capable young people migrate in a mass way abroad. And that actually changes the entire electoral body. This is really what is happening in Slovenia, but it is also happening in all of Europe, but we are talking about Slovenia now. In order to avoid that this decision, which is extremely important and meaning the practical realization of fundamental rights, is an inseparable right of every nation to self-determination, you have sought all possible reasons: that this is not possible, that the issue is not clear and similar. Of course, you can find a thousand and one reason to hide your fear. Fear to face the will of men. Personally, I am convinced that people want Slovenia to remain a secure democratic country, a country of the Slovenian people and all citizens and citizens who live here; and that they always have the advantage of being domestic to foreigners. The question you have stumbled upon, and then at least ten times I have said that it is possible to change at any time, because now we should, clearly, because things have changed. Now it's not about joining this act, it's about withdrawing from it. But it can be changed at any time. As a proposaler, I'm willing to do this now, if you want to do this, that's the least of your problems. In the light of your statements, I seriously doubt that there is any real will to do this. What would it mean to accept that? Nothing to be confident of ourselves and to start to regulate things in the right way; and then to take this into account when adopting acts. I'm saying that's really what this is about. It has been faked all the time by what is the purpose of this unfortunate treaty with a bombastic name, the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration. Indeed, the act itself is based on lies, as I have already said, that all migrations are positive and are all a source of progress. That's not true. When it comes to mass migration, the situation is unfortunately quite the opposite. But there's something else. It has been argued all the time, since the first day, that is what Mr Sarec said as Prime Minister of the Government, and Mr Cerar as Foreign Minister as well as a whole of others, that this act is not binding. That is, ladies and gentlemen, if we let go of political correctness, that is a simple lie. It's not manipulation at all, but it's a lie. It's a very binding act. The second is that it is not incriminating directly because there is nothing that can be enforced in a court of law. But he's committed to politics. Before the domestic and international public, in particular before the international public. And he's a liability. In the global agreement, you have 46 times the words: “we commit”, “I will make this happen”, “we will accept it”; even the wording is: “accepted, implemented, preserved” and so on. And then you say it doesn't bind. Of course he does, which is why you approached him. If I hadn't committed to anything, no one would have joined. You all know that. This was also the reason why you initially took this into account in clear contradictions to laws and constitutions. Once he was accepted or announced in Marrakesh, no one was even willing to go there to take pictures, you sent one of the officials. If we truly believed that this was something positive for Slovenia, we would all stand in line and set the sun on camera. So you didn't. You have hid yourselves, because you are ashamed; and you are rightly ashamed. Infringements in the procedure and because of content. What does all of this bring in practice? I think that the key part of this global agreement is really the part that touches censorship. This is already in force, it is not at all true that this act will not be implemented, and it is already in force. You have already had invitations – even Europe has had it, I think even for 7 million, with additional censorship on the Internet – to pursue an enemy speech, as it is now called. And you all know that hate speech is not uniformly defined. For example, a prominent constitutional lawyer, who is quite a specialist in European law, said that in no case is it permissible to restrict freedom of speech in an administrative way. That's exactly what you're doing, and it's already happening. This works at the moment, as we could read, some group there; and this kubaji to protect, of course hiding behind the language barrier. There are very few people who understand Slovenian. After all, Facebook and the others don't care what we have here. And if they have someone here who launches them up, they block the sides and amazing things happen. They personally deleted images from the Polish state celebration, which is an equal member of the European Union; the national celebration was something like this, explaining that it was a meeting of extreme right-wing people. That's great. This is a direct violation of freedom of speech and freedom of expression, the criterion of which is to allow for the opposite opinion. Do you know that the Marrakesh Agreement prohibits and sanctions the opposite opinion? You were also warned by Boštjan M. Zupančič. “The Pact also forces the censorship of conflicting opinions.” This is clearly and completely contrary to the principle of freedom of public expression and freedom of expression. And that's why you really want to have this pact obviously, because what's being created is multiculturalism, which is causing endless conflicts and a sense of danger and all the other consequences, even for the welfare of the country, are just negative, social parasitism, if you want. And all of this cannot be maintained without violence. However, this cannot be established and maintained unless censorship or the freedom of the public word is first established. And that's how we get to the end of what I built at the beginning. You all know that if something on the left has been saying for so many years that it is necessary to be tolerant, that it is necessary to be free, tolerant of everything and everyone, until the moment it comes into power. At that point, he wants to silence the other side quickly. It's right up to the pussy what you're doing right now, and it's a story that's been a long time. If Slovenian values were still valid, even in the ruling structure – among the people I am sure they are still alive – such as in Slovenia's independence, everyone would be aware that Slovenia was created on the basis of the inalienable right of the people to self-determination. In fact, until the decision at the referendum. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia – read Article 2 – puts it first. In Slovenia it has a voice of people, it is realized directly and then indirectly, in accordance with the principle of the division of power and so on. But it's in the first place right now. It's not a coincidence. This is because it was an inalienable right to a decision, the constitutional basis on which we built a separate Slovenia. It is enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and is also enshrined in the constitutional basis of the State of Slovenia itself. And here it is a decision on which we want to go, or the direction of open borders, accepting migration as something positive, giving priority to a foreigner from home or in the opposite direction to defend our borders, defend our country, preserve our culture, our identity, our Slovenian language, to expect those who come in Slovenia to adapt to those who live here, not vice versa. Or if you want to set a simple principle that I think is hiding all the time in the background today. I'm not afraid, I'm not, I'm proposing that we stand before people to measure who's right, whether people want each other, just then commit ourselves to respecting such a referendum. And the question is, are you giving priority to a foreigner or giving priority to your citizens? And I will always be for that, first of all Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. That's all I want to say: The right can't meme. Right hand doesn't know the memat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u157	Mr Kordish, this was not a procedural proposal. I hope you will learn what a procedural proposal is during the meeting of the National Assembly and also use it further. You've got your word. All the people you've ever asked for it. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? It's still an interest in the application. Before initiating the procedure, the following instruction shall also be given if a representative of the Magi proposer also wishes to discuss it. Branko Grimes, please report by pressing the microphone key. In this case, he'll get the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got five applicants. Everyone gets five minutes. First of all, it's Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u158	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! Today's debate is exhausting, but it is difficult and important for the Republic of Slovenia, especially the relations in the country and the way the world around us is watching us. In doing so, I would first set up a formal framework, which is very clearly justified by Article 3 of the Basic Constitutional Charter of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: “The Republic of Slovenia shall ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms to all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of their nationality, without any discrimination, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties in force.” Even those who talk about the problems of foreigners, refugees. And this was clearly discussed in the previous term in the National Assembly and was highlighted when the law on foreigners was changing, unfortunately, in this direction as it was. And yesterday strongly exposed article 153, when a constitutional charge was to be enforced against the President of the current government, this article 153 in paragraph 4 states: “The actions of the state authorities must be based on the law or the law.” So it is also on the international obligations that this country has undertaken. And even if the government were able to form a party that is today proposing this referendum, i.e. the SDS, they should also support the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration, in accordance with the existing signed international treaties. And I would like to say that when a person is following public opinion surveys in Slovenia, trying to listen to contact shows or read letters from readers, I would say that my colleague Baković was right when he said earlier, in Slovenia, the majority opinion is that we are building bridges, protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people, especially those who are in Slovenia, in our territory, and not building walls. And for me personally, the requirement for a referendum, important democratic elections, would be to say, to define people in this country, built on falsehoods, on lies, on fantasies, which have been repeatedly exposed and justified today and only a little reading, following the media or burying yourself in various claims, you will find that this is an absolutely incorrect and wrong approach in the implementation of a certain political action. And this I think is the abuse of this measure and also the abuse of the time that we need here in the National Assembly for this purpose. And when so many times are said to be "responsibility to citizens and to give priority to their man", I would like to say that it was in the past that the proponents were those who adopted a once famous law, which was practically a new constitution, which was a violation of many constitutional and legal rights, social, economic, also political, citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Many of these had to be corrected by the Constitutional Court, many of them, and they had to be abolished. History doesn't teach us anything. As previously said, when we talk about citizens and the priority and attention to give to our citizens, many colleagues and colleagues have already said this when talking about the guaranteed salary, the proposer who proposes a referendum abstained from raising the minimum wage for workers in the Republic of Slovenia. When talking about raising monetary social assistance and, in parallel, also the protective allowances of pensioners in Slovenia, it is good that they have risen, they belong to these cases because, in fact, as Prosecutor Kozina once said, the amount of minimum income and also pension is at a criminal level in our Republic of Slovenia. I would like to say this that there was no vote either. And that's why I'd say we can't accept such things. They are not responsible for the current situation with us foreigners, Roma, homosexuals, refugees or wiped out, and so are we, this legislative authority. And I'd like to say this. Foreigners want to work. My friend Ahmad Shami is a hairdresser, he wants to work, and he's not a racist. Mr. Grimes, I'd cut your hair, too. I'm honored if you choose to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, I would suggest that you first take a good look at any voting statement before you make any statements. Because what you said wasn't true. The next one gets the word "Joseph Lenart." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting, fellow Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Notwithstanding the rejection at the Foreign Policy Committee's meeting of the proposal for a consultative referendum on mass migration, we need to know that it has been tabled by a third of Members and Members. So we have a desire to somehow fulfill the will of the people here, just as you are all present. Members of the coalition voted, as was the opinion of the Government, regardless of the long-term consequences for their constituents, citizens and perhaps regardless of the misunderstanding of the problem. Maybe. But here's what I'm going to say, Dr. Miro Cerar, as Foreign Minister on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is that this agreement is also an agreement and that it is not equal to legal and illegal migration. I believe that everyone is somehow trying to work for the good of the people, but those who, at the last migratory wave, could see and monitor these arrivals that actually passed through Slovenia, I must tell you that even those who live at the border with Croatia now have a very different view because they have looked at it in person. I'm not saying all the arrivals are unwelcome. The ones we work for are welcome, that's fine. But somehow a critical mass of these people can do bad things. Thus, for example, the final stadium was destroyed, so that houses were destroyed by the people who gave them shelter. But inside they burned down the door, the cracks, and all they could do was burn, and they could take care of the wood outside. But then these houses were no longer worth anything. However, the country has actually promised these people who have borrowed these houses for these arrivals some compensation by somehow solving the problem. In these transitions, a lot of people are also lost, it is said, how can the interior minister or foreign minister now tell us that there is no problem with these people, unless we know where they are, even for those who went across at the time. A lot of people don't know where they are. Some have been lost in Slovenia, some have been lost in Italy, some have already committed crimes, some have lived in Slovenia for 20 years, have been convicted of burglaries and so on, and no one has tracked or expelled them from the country when they work here. Thus, we have some assurance that we will take care of our people, and we are not actually doing that, but we are talking a lot. You know, I think all too many Slovenians are indifferent, what will happen to us, what will happen to this country, like Europeans, what will happen to Europe. But when there was a critical mass, as it happened in Stockholm, as it happened in Malmö and then panic. And now our beloved Europe would send these people back to us with some quotas. And even in Marrakesh it's about getting quotas. But when they give us 6,000 to accept, we'll call the Slovenians good Slovenians again, yes, it's okay, we'll take it. And these are such quotas, when the numbers for us can be very worrying. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am also committed to helping these people, but to helping them in their countries of origin. The European Union had some plans to solve things, but now it has fallen out of its hands and now it is putting on us with such declarations a responsibility, a shared responsibility for this state they have made. Let them take it themselves if they're invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word "Micha Kordish." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the first half of this debate, there were often some claims that then calmed down a little in the second half of the debate and that is why I failed to respond to them. These are claims that paint an entire group of people as violent migrants who slaughter, who kill, who blackmail, who terrorize and don't know what else. Of course, this is what extreme-right proponents tend to represent as individual cases, but it is quite obvious that this rhetorical operation merely conceals certain features that they want to project to the whole social group. Of course, not because this social group would be culturally or genetically or anything like that prone to violence, to break up and not to join society, but because in this way they are building a xenophobic, racist, block-based image of arrivals from the third world simply because of their own political EPP, which they carry only to the promotion of hatred. Nevertheless, I would respond in more detail to all of these specific cases of violence cited by the extreme right. At first, I would respond to the fact that it is to a large extent an inflated story or a direct fake news. On more than one occasion, which has been highlighted today by the applicants, this has proved to be true, so it is a simple fake news. Secondly, the far right of this fake news is further fueling the use of its own communication tools, with purposeful dissemination and social networking by private media, in our case co-financed by Fascist Hungary and so on. Then comes the parliamentary debate, and then these same people and the same structures behind this facsimile news, explaining: “Yes, you know, the media wrote about this incident, about that incident, ” with all these exhibits, including those that actually happen, already very clearly profiled at the start, so they are not focused. [[…]] There's been a case of violence between two people. Why did this happen? That's not supposed to happen. But we can read the headlines on how an illegal migrant black man beat up his grandmother or whatever you've been talking about today. In short, this is the first response to these exposures as to how some violent people are being poisoned. In short, it's a lot of news. The second response takes into account the reality in which these arrivals in the target countries, including us, are found. And they find themselves because of policies, the same policies that the extreme right-wing advocates also advocate for us. These are ghetto policies. Rather than allowing these people to become involved in society, instead of helping them to rebuild their lives with us, in parallel with helping them to rebuild their homelands — what is now happening and what is advocated by the right hand? More economic exploitation for third-world countries, more bombs over third-world countries, and in the home country, the ghettoisation of these people to be squeezed to press them is taken away from them by any perspective, they are treated as common animals. Do you know what psychological consequences this has for people? Everyone's freaking out. Everyone is going crazy, not just because of the Balkan route and all the horrors that have happened to refugees there, not because of the horrors that are happening to people here and in other target countries. They're getting away from all the pressure. The movie's tearing them apart. What is most normal, very sad, tragic, but if the state treats them like cattle, with anyone, with any human, if the state treats them like cattle, then this man will become a beast. As a third response, I would like to remind you of the incident that took place before the trial on 20 April 2017, when the cheerleading supporter Janez Janša to the Slovenian homeless man ripped the crumb out of his hands and beat him with the same crumb. And this is the face of the far right. And this man wasn't black.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish, you and some other Members of the Left and the SD don't seem very peaceful in those images of Kotnikov either. With your fists clenched, armed, and no need to threaten anyone and characterize anyone, you've shown enough of your own business. You want to talk about using the Rules of Procedure? [[Advertising from the hall]] Okay, we'll see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you, Chairman. I am convinced that the substantive interventions of the President of the National Assembly are not in accordance with the rules of procedure of this National Assembly, even when they have been used as targetedly as an attempt to discredit a specific Member and a specific Group of Members, with a narrative on the other side of a specific other Group of Members, in this case the extreme right. Plus, they're underlined and they're stained with lies. So the presidents, I protest.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u165	You can protest. The fact is that this exists, these pictures are credible and you're recorded there. [[advertising from the hall]] . We're gonna break up here with procedural matters. Can I help you, Mr. Brickler? [[Advertising from the hall]] There's no replica in the extension. The next one gets the word, Mr. Alexander Reberšek. [[Advertising from the hall]] Yes, I do. I could have even interrupted you. I could have interrupted you. Here you go, Mr. Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't think I'd hear and see anything new today that, as far as migration is concerned, I've learned a lot, but something has happened that is causing a lot of optimism. The representative of the Left brought the Bible to the National Assembly. Dear Members, honourable Members, respected citizens, respected citizens, there is still hope for Slovenia. Meanwhile, New Slovenia did not change its position on migration. We are still opposed to the Marrakesh Declaration, and we are still advocating a policy of controlled borders where all illegal crossings must be prevented. Above all, we believe that the causes of migration need to be addressed at source. As far as the referendum is concerned, let me put it this way. If the referendum were submitted in due time, it would be said before the vote on the Marrakesh agreement and if the referendum were to be binding, then it would be only right to support it. Today, with the support of Slovenia, the Slovenian government has already agreed on migration, and it is too late to ring the bell. The consultation referendum is therefore an expensive survey, and at this point it still recognises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Last time he gets the word, he's a magician. Brank Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr Kordish, I suggest that you explain your fake news, as you say, about the crimes, to the relatives of the murdered police officer, especially his wife, who were barely married. It would be very interesting to hear them accept your theory of fake news. Ahmad Shami would rather go home and nurse his children and stay with them, they must need him, believe me. Now you're talking about extremists. When's he an exterminator? The extreme is the one in politics that is ready to achieve political goals to use violence. I have only seen left-wing, cloaked, with anything in their hands that stood on Kotnikov's side, ready to use violence against their people. On the right hand side, I do not know one person in all of Slovenia who would be prepared to achieve the political goals of cutting in on violence. And you were followed by Mr. Kordish, by Mrs. Tanja Fajon. And tell me who you're hanging out with, and I'll tell you who you are. But if we look at who's hanging out with them, it's fun. So much for who's an extreme. So we have left-wing extremists in Slovenia, there are no right-wings. The second is the question of human rights. Human rights in Slovenia are guaranteed by the Constitution and applicable legal acts, the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. So this has nothing to do with the global agreement. I can spell it out for you. Depending on it, all rights are guaranteed to everyone with the applicable legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the international act which bind Slovenia, of course. The problem with this global agreement is that it wants to create a new human right, a right to migration, through a party door. This was not a human right and must never become a human right, for otherwise we will have what I said at the outset – global socialism with equality in decay and poverty. It has been said that the SDS should adopt a global agreement if it were in power. I don't know how you imagine power, but whoever has the supremacy of power is the right majority in Parliament and in the government, deciding what he will take or is a Democrat and leaving this decision to the people when it comes to fate. And that's what we suggest. You really have everything in your hands. If they were in my power, they wouldn't talk about it at all, because none of us are smart enough to accept this. But we suggest that you be Democrats, leave this decision to the people. I don't know what you're so afraid of, because you said yourself that the vast majority of people are for bridges, for openness. Yeah, well, then let's go to the referendum, then we'll be defeated, I'll apologize here, don't worry. No problem. People are always right. Just give him a chance to make a decision. This is democratic, ladies and gentlemen. What is the alternative to what brings about a global agreement, of course, through permanent unlimited migrations, which are all legalised and which are being paid indefinitely? The alternative is to strengthen your people, to return to the values that this country has created, to take your family as that fundamental cell that needs to be strengthened, also financially. And not to give for migrants to eat 6 million a day, not to give for migrants to bed for 4 million a day, not to give for migrants for bytes I don't know how many millions a third day and how many spaces you're building for them for the fourth day. But this money is simply spent on Slovenian children, Slovenian families, and you are also trying to influence the increase in fertility as much as possible. You can do that. Just the neighbouring Hungary, which you like to criticize so much, is a fantastic example of being able to do so because they were able to increase the fertility of their people there. And there's no need for any migration, look, all these problems are suddenly gone. There's no more trouble. How simple the solutions are if we just want to see them. It is only this question whether this fundamental dilemma of the further development of Slovenia, either as the countries of the Slovenian people, as stated in the Slovenian Constitution, and all the citizens and citizens who live here, who defend their identity, which preserve their culture, strengthen it, the true culture that cares for their language, or preserve it for the next generations, or say, it is not worth it, and let us go along the path brought by the global agreement, open the borders and welcome migrants. As it is said, I am always for logic First Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, I must remind you and Mr Grimes that it was a reversal of the facts. Back then, on Kotnikova, people stood up for the refugees with whom they wanted to physically account for a larger group of people. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u171	Your Honor, Mr. Cygler, where is the motion for procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u172	I was standing there, too. [[…]] I hope we're on the right side. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-30-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u173	Where is the procedural proposal? He's not here. Good. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision to call for a consultation referendum on the treatment of migration will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the fourth meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
