ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Nataša Sukič, Violeta Tomić, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Dr. Franc Trček from 12 a.m. to 12 p.m., Soniboj Knezak to 13 p.m., Ljudmila Novak, Jožef Horvat from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., Aljaž Kovacič to 12 p.m., Nada Brinovšek, Eva Irgl, Franz Breznik and Igor Zorčič to 12 p.m. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY – PROPOSAL FOR A SUPPLEMENT OF THE OFFICER OF THE STATE CONGREGATION, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. At its 3rd meeting, on 30 May 2019, the Rules of Procedure Commission considered the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure as its parent working body. Since the Commission did not adopt the articles of the proposal after the discussion, the second consideration of the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the working body was completed. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Vojko Starović, Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The National Assembly shall govern its organisation, work and exercise of the rights and duties of Members and Members on its own, by means of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The work of the National Assembly shall be divided into parliamentary committees and commissions. Currently, 13 other parliamentary committees and 8 commissions are working in the National Assembly in addition to a number of working groups and the College of Presidents. The National Assembly shall be the one responsible for the provision of current operations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Consequently, the arrangements in force in Article 48, paragraph 4, provide for a restriction whereby at the same time a maximum of two working bodies may be held. Such a restriction has been introduced in the Rules of Procedure for substantial reasons and is important for the effective functioning of the legislative branch of the Authority as well as for the exercise of the rights and duties of Members and Members. At least three Members may set up an emissary group and the limitation of the meeting of two working bodies is therefore necessary. We must also take into account the likelihood that all three Members from objective circumstances, such as diseases, will not be present at the same time. Otherwise, the conclusion of the individual working body would be at risk. In practice, Members would also be prevented from participating in a work body at the same time and thereby would be deprived of a fundamental parliamentary right. As already pointed out, 24 working bodies operate in the National Assembly during the first year of the mandate. The National Assembly must ensure that all parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they count three Members or twenty, are in an equal position with regard to working conditions. Each Member Group or its Members and Members shall be provided with the possibility of active cooperation at a particular meeting, for which preparation is also required. Not only must meetings be convened so that Members can attend, but it is important that they also have sufficient time to prepare, so that they can participate actively in the meeting. In view of the above, the adoption of the proposed exemption would lead to an even greater inequality between the smaller and larger parliamentary groups, which, in the opinion of the SAB, would also deny the will of the electorate. They rightly expect their elected Members to have a level playing field. In the SAB Group, we understand the importance of the Commission's work in monitoring intelligence and security services and the difficulties encountered by existing arrangements. The current parliamentary practice allows for a meeting of the third working body, but only if all members agree. As a result, no Member State has been deprived of its right and the necessary quorum is ensured. We believe that changes in the rules of procedure in the direction that would take account of the past parliamentary practice would be more appropriate. We believe that in the future we will draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure in a way that will follow parliamentary practice and the consensus of several groups of Members. In the SAB Group, we live up to our promises and thank the voters and voters for their confidence, because of the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which would have a negative impact on our active participation in working bodies, we will not support the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The composition of the work of the National Assembly shall be in this mandate and at this time spread between 25 working bodies. The fundamental mission of Parliament is to adopt laws. It is certainly one of the priority areas in which it also addresses every time the current substantive areas. The two permanent commissions have their powers under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and other laws and are involved in the supervision of public finances and the supervision of the Security Intelligence Service. Extraordinaryly varied work is also taking place on the three Commissions of Inquiry that have already been established. The number or size of the working bodies is different, and from 9 members all 19 members, and the members are mostly small, with 2, 4, 5, 7 members or more members of a group of nine. The latter means that Members from these smaller groups also participate in four or five working bodies, so that if there are already two committees of one or the same Member, there is a rapid problem of ensuring the presence. Thus, there are no isolated cases where a Member or Member is present on several committees at the same time, which in practice means running from one sitting room to another or ensuring presence with a alternate Member. It is not particularly necessary to note that the quality of the content work is in such a way that it suffers enormously, and the fact is that it must not happen. As the electors of the people, we are all, without exception, obliged to do our work seriously and qualitatively for the benefit of society and every individual. As a result of this principle, we have in the Desus Group, when considering the addition of the Rules of Procedure, in order to be able, at the same time, to hold a meeting of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services on the home working body. Even more bizarre was the additional proposal, which is in the amendment form of six working bodies at the same time. It works for 90 Members and will certainly not run out of Members. The current business limit on the provision that only two working bodies can meet at the same time, of course, has been created for certain reasons and therefore has a purpose. Firstly, we are obliged to enable the public to directly monitor our work, ensuring smooth and quality work and, secondly, making it possible for us to monitor our work directly. All of this could certainly not be guaranteed in the manner proposed by some overly ambitious Members. Obstacles that the KNOVS or any other commission could take up more frequently or that their work could be done more quickly can be set aside in a more appropriate way, so allow me to call there for serious consideration of the way individual working bodies meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Jelka Godec, you will present your position on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you. I did not know that in the National Assembly we know too many ambitious Members and that the quality of the work of Members is considered by how many times they were sitting. This is something that we are hearing today and what we have also heard on the Rules of Procedure Commission, which at its 3rd regular session on 30 May 2019 discussed the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed mags to the Assembly for consideration after a reduced procedure. Matthew Tonin. The proposal to adopt the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure referred to the current rules of procedure, which decide in Article 48, paragraph 4, at the same time shall be subject to a maximum of two working bodies, indicating the difficulties in requiring the Commission's meetings to monitor the intelligence and security services. The amendment to the Proposal for Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to Article 1 of the proposal, in which the amendment was proposed, was also tabled by the Presidents of the investigative commissions currently in operation, and we drew attention to the specificity of the work and the needs of the investigative commissions and the sense of considering the restriction referred to in Article 48(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the meetings of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, was also extended to the meetings of the investigative commissions. So, with the amendment, we wanted the Commission of Inquiry to meet, in addition to the KNOVS, as a third working body, for one simple reason. This is because investigative commissions have a specific course of work. If I could just tell you, in May, I wanted to book a sitting room for a witness hearing in June. It wasn't possible! In July – one date, in September until 15 September – it was not possible. Now, tell me, all of you, ask the investigative commissions to act smoothly, to investigate their conclusions, to request the public as well, and we simply cannot call the meetings. Now let's leave it a month or two. Now I've booked all of September, as many dates as possible, because we're going to start working, just like the other committees are doing today, bragging about how the members are present, and so on, when we book for four months in advance five dates, and then they don't have any meetings, and they're sitting for the rest of them. Therefore, there have already been proposals to limit these matters; not through the Rules of Procedure, but otherwise. The specificity of the commission of inquiry is also that an immediate reaction, such as a response to a letter, is needed; I don't know, you send a request for material to an institution, this answers that the material will not be delivered and that we can only get material through court. So the reaction is necessary immediately, because you need the material to investigate. How am I supposed to call a meeting if I don't get a date for three months? How am I supposed to call a meeting? Now tell me! Then we call the meeting at 7:30 a.m. in front of the National Assembly, but it's too soon for the Members, too soon. We call the meeting Friday at 4:00 p.m. – it's too late because it's Friday. Our reason, as president of a commission, my colleague Jani Möderndorfer and my colleague Vrtovec, was that, as a third working body, the commission of inquiry was also sitting in case an immediate reaction was needed; hence, it needed a commission decision to obtain material through the court. This meeting will take 15 minutes. Fifteen minutes as a third working body! Today you are saying that we have too many ambitious Members. This is likely to fly to the Presidents of the KNF and KNOVS Commissions of Inquiry. I am interested in what the presence of Members on all committees will be like today when two working bodies are sitting. How many will he apologize for? On the Commissions of Inquiry, we are constantly having problems with the conclusion, with rapid response and so on. I hope, therefore, that because of the problem that has been raised, both in the Rules of Procedure and here today, the President of the National Assembly and all of us Members will also consider further amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or amending the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's Investigative Commission and, of course, the law. However, I regret that, at the meeting of the Rules of Procedure itself, there was no proposal to hold a third working body, which was then the Commission's proposal for a Rules of Procedure, thus sitting as a third working body or one investigative commission or KNJF, or KNJF. I am very sorry that Members, even some of the new Members, do not understand what a rapid response to the work of the National Assembly is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you for your position, Madam Ambassador. At the same time, I remind you that we do not comment on the views of the other Members representing the positions in the presentation. Excuse me. Thank you. Apology accepted. We're moving on. You have the floor, Mr Edvard Paulič, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in its Article 1, provide that the Rules of Procedure shall be an act governing the organisation and work of the National Assembly, at the same time providing that it shall be an act which shall ensure and apply the exercise of the rights and duties of Members and Members. The latter is of paramount importance not only for the successful and efficient work of the National Assembly, but also for the successful and efficient work of Members and Members. In our position, we would like to draw particular attention to this aspect. The Member may perform his or her work in a qualitative and responsible manner only if he or she has the opportunity to participate in the working bodies of which he or she is a member, and it is therefore important that this right of a Member is properly regulated by the Rules of Procedure. The Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services on the basis of a timetable adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly shall not have reservations for the appointment of meetings. Therefore, the aim of the proposed revision of the Rules of Procedure was to ensure the effective and smooth functioning of the KNOVS, which is why the majority of its members also agreed with the amendment. Another fact is that it is in favour of the changes that have been proposed, but unfortunately they have not been adopted. The KNOVS does not have any alternate members, so citing meetings is a particular challenge as it is necessary to find a deadline when all members of the Commission are free. This is in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which I mentioned at the outset, in the light of the exercise of the rights and duties of Members and Members, so that they can be present at meetings of working bodies of essential importance. In the LMŠ Group, we have also upgraded the proposed amendment to the Commission's Rules of Procedure by limiting it to three working bodies which can meet at the same time. In our view, if this exception were to be too wide, the work of Members and Members organised in smaller groups of Members could again be compromised. Without this restriction, four or even more working bodies could theoretically be invoked at the same time, making it difficult, for example, for a three-member group — the least necessary number for the establishment of a parliamentary group — to be present at these meetings. It could happen that one of the parliamentary groups could not participate in all meetings of working bodies, and this would in fact violate the rules of procedure in its main purpose. In view of everything in the LMŠ Group, we regret that the proposed amendment on the basis of which three working bodies could operate simultaneously, i.e. two working bodies linked to the legislative procedure and another working body, KNOVS or one of the investigative committees, has not been supported by the Rules of Procedure Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mag. Mr Bojana Muršič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure revived the debate that we have too restrictive a Rules of Procedure since it allows only two meetings of working bodies to be held at the same time. It should also be added that at the moment, including investigative commissions, we have 24 working bodies set up, with another commission of inquiry forecasting the establishment of. Participation and work at convened meetings of working bodies often poses a problem already in our parliamentary group, which by number of Members is not the least in the National Assembly. With the possible application of an exception to the possibility of having any of the two supervisory committees of the National Assembly or of any of the investigative committees, participation in all meetings of the working bodies would make it difficult. In particular, because of this proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure, we have not supported and the procedure for this has also been completed. In doing so, it should be stressed that, in addition to participating in the meetings of working bodies, we have many other obligations, whether we work in sent offices on the ground, obligations in the international activities of the National Assembly, obligations to the media, to the public concerned. Social Democrats are aware that, in practice, there are sometimes difficulties in finding free deadlines for meetings of working bodies. It is true, however, that many meetings of working bodies are mainly and distinctly from political interests, although the real problems of people are often not shared. We are now witnessing a strange process when the Commission to oversee the work of the intelligence and security services is transformed into a quasi-investigation committee. Its working methods and established parliamentary practice are changing. It is only this week that we have so-called three meetings of the said Commission, for which it is crystal clear that they are politically motivated before Friday's debate on the interpretation of responsibility and the work of the Minister of Defence and the real needs of the Commission's operation have nothing to do with it. Unfortunately, in the National Assembly they are increasingly at the forefront of the mass emergency and emergency meetings, the meetings of the supervisory and investigative commissions, and the legislative process is moving somehow towards the edge of work, although this should be our core activity of the legislative branch of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the text of Mrs Matej Udovč, Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members! A group of Members with first-signed mag. Matei Tonin, or members and members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, submitted a proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly after a reduced procedure for consideration and adoption. The proposal concerns the addition of Article 48 of the Rules of Procedure by providing that the restriction to which a member may meet at the same time a maximum of two working bodies shall not apply when citing meetings of the UCITS. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the KNOVS shall be a permanent commission of the National Assembly and its powers shall be laid down in Article 40 of the Rules of Procedure. The way in which they work is governed by their rules of procedure, but there are no specific provisions regarding the presence of members of the committees. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly explain that the functioning of the KNOVS is significantly more affecting the functioning of the executive branch than the functioning of other working bodies. However, it is crucial for Members and Members that the intelligence and security services are under adequate control without restrictions and reservations when citing meetings of the KNOVS. The KNOVS does not have any alternate members, so in order to ensure the presence at the meetings, the President must take care of the open terms of the majority of Members and Members of the KNOVS. Applicants point out that the current business arrangements, which limit the simultaneous meeting to a maximum of two working bodies, present difficulties in citing the meeting, both in terms of members and premises. The KNOVS proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure was joined by all the Presidents of the Commissions of Inquiry. They all pointed out that the Rules of Procedure do not take sufficient account of the specifics and needs of investigative commissions when organising the work of the National Assembly or their working bodies. Investigative committees have difficulty booking meeting dates. The working bodies which are bound by the legislative procedure shall be granted reservations on the basis of a schedule adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly and the Commissions of Inquiry shall not have or may not have such reservations. The Commissions of Inquiry shall be the special supervisory bodies of the National Assembly, specifically appointed by the National Assembly for each specific parliamentary inquiry and therefore cannot be compared with the other regular working bodies of the National Assembly. It should also be borne in mind that their mandate is limited in time and that they will complete their work by considering the report at the plenary session of the National Assembly. The National Assembly can also stop their work. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we regret that the Rules of Procedure Commission did not have a hearing on the reasoned arguments of the KNOVS and the Commissions of Inquiry. Especially since a similar dilemma has already been raised in the previous mandate, as part of the Commission's working paper on the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, there was no sufficient consensus at the time for the changes, but mainly because proposals were also made to remove the exception for all working bodies. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are working together with the Chairman of the Commission of Mags. Carmen Furman worked hard and prepared a compromise amendment. We have proposed that, at the same time as the third working body, only one Commission, i.e. the KNOVS or the Commission of Inquiry, could convene a meeting. This would be agreed upon by the management of both working bodies. The latter solution would also address the concerns raised in the light of the fact that the Group of Members may count at least three members. As the compromise proposal has not been adopted, the following compositions of the National Assembly will have to be addressed with the said dilemmas, and by then these appointed supervisory bodies of the National Assembly will have to implement a new parliamentary practice, which, for example, will take place outside the official working hours, working days and hearing witnesses during the meetings of the National Assembly, and I therefore expect that the latter bodies will not receive comments in these cases from those who have prevented them from doing their work in a smooth and efficient manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Miha Kordish on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u14	The proposal is intended to allow more than two committees or two committees to take place simultaneously with amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have dealt with similar proposals in the previous term, and we have already opposed them in Levica. We opposed them in particular because the meeting of more than two committees at the same time would cause a lot of problems for the four or five Members of Parliament. We can say from our own experience that in the previous term, when we had five members of the parliamentary group, we have encountered problems from time to time in participating on all the committees called for. We are trying to do our work seriously, we are attending all meetings, which are at least little substantive and not exclusively pyar action by individual parliamentary groups, but we have at times been very difficult to participate in when it comes to limiting to two joint committees in a total of 25 commissions and committees. The situations that then happen to you that you run between a committee and another committee and try to follow the debate on both committees at the same time are not the most pleasant. This is the first part of the criticism of the proposal. The second part concerns the Commission’s supervision of intelligence and security services, which should be made necessary to provide more room for its meetings. As you know, the Left has no member of the KNOVS. We have already resigned from membership in the previous term because the Commission has only changed into a means of carrying out political propaganda, while it is virtually out of control by the intelligence and security services. With this proposal to complement the Rules of Procedure, more room for manoeuvre would be available for the implementation of this political propaganda. The function of this Commission should be an important form of democratic control. It is intended to oversee intelligence and security services, to review the use of covert investigation measures, methods and measures of data acquisition and other repressive and invasive measures carried out by these services. Instead, under the second consecutive mandate of tightening the repression and increasing the powers of the repressive authorities of the KNOVS, it deals with second-rate Ustak singers, accounting with communists through the secret deposits of the Udba and with the winter forecast of the apocalypse which will take place due to refugees. By amending the Rules of Procedure, we would have achieved nothing but a commission of chairpersons of abuse whenever he decided to do so. In Levica, we therefore oppose the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u16	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! The New Slovenia Group supports the proposal we have signed and also tabled by members of the various parties; members who are members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. The current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are such that it allows only two working bodies to meet at the same time. This has started to appear as a major obstacle to the meeting of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission in particular. The Commission is established by special law and has special powers as well as special status in the National Assembly. Finally, we are elected by a majority of all the votes in this House, which gives some speciality, some different status from other working bodies, and it is crucial that the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence and Security Services is the one that allows civil control of intelligence and security services. And if the Commission has to wait for weeks, sometimes even a month and more to get a free deadline for the Commission to carry out some supervision or thorough area of a matter, then this is, of course, a key obstacle to the effective exercise of civilian control over intelligence and security services. Since not only must more than two committees not be held at the same time, the Commission must not also meet during the meetings of the National Assembly, the regular and extraordinary, but in the end we will come up with very limited options when the Commission can meet. This was also a fundamental reason why the members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission have tabled this revision of the Rules of Procedure, which would allow the Commission to meet whenever the need arises. It was close to the Rules of Procedure Commission because it lacked one vote in order for this amendment to be adopted. But that's just the way it is. People have told their story. Some seem to object to the Commission’s even more effective and more regular supervision. I also understand that some members of government parties have a problem with the work of the Commission. There has never been love here, KNOVS is a supervisory commission and whoever is controlled always feels uncomfortable and can give such and different insights. It is essential, however, that we work on the basis of the rules of procedure, the law and that what we do is our work. In the New Slovenia Group, we regret that this amendment of the Rules of Procedure will not be adopted, although we support it in the parliamentary group, because it would actually allow the spirit of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services to be fully implemented. At present, this is the only control we have, and this control is limited by the bureaucratic rule that at the same time more than two working bodies should not be occupied.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. With this, honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Name Act. The proposal was tabled by the Government. That is how Minister Boštjan Poklukar has the opportunity to inform us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u18	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give you a brief presentation of the proposal for a new Law on Personal Name, which addresses the shortcomings that have been shown in practice in the implementation of the applicable law, while at the same time in the proposal for a law on solutions that are necessary for coordination with the Family Code and the Law on Partnerships. The key novelty is the removal of restrictions on the number of words or indivisible wholes in the individual’s name and surname he has chosen for legal traffic. The restriction on two words or indivisible entirely in the selection of a personal name for legal traffic has proved problematic, in particular in cases where the births of dual citizens are registered in records of foreign countries with a personal name containing more than two words or indivisible in full. According to the law in force, they are obliged to make a statement on the choice of a personal name for legal traffic before entering the register of origin in the Republic of Slovenia and to choose between words abroad a specific personal name. The fact that national legislation allows or requires a different composition of a personal name than that of a person in the country where he is born or living, and according to the case law of the EU Court of Justice, constitutes a violation of the right to free movement and residence in the territory of the Member States. The draft law introduces the possibility of drawing up a personal name, which includes letters as part of a personal name in addition to words, while also allowing for legal traffic abbreviations of names and surnames. In this regard we also consulted the Institute for Slovenian Language Fran Ramovša ZRC SAZU. An extension of the time limit for a declaration to change the surname after the divorce or annulment of the marriage, which allows an individual to obtain the surname which he had before the marriage was concluded from the current 6 months to one year. The six-month period proved to be too short in practice, especially in cases of divorces from abroad. As regards the change of personal name on the basis of an application, the possibility of submitting an application shall be linked to the individual’s complete business capacity. In view of the fact that in some cases a person acquires a complete business capacity before he or she is of full age, this covers cases of individuals who have acquired full business before their age and cases in which a full - time individual does not or does not at all acquire a business ability. The draft law also extends reservations to change the personal name. As reservations, a conditional conviction shall be added for a criminal offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under an official obligation for the duration of the probationary period. In order to implement the Law on Partnerships and the Family Code, there is a need for more terminology in the amended regulation. We believe that the solutions presented are appropriate, so I propose that the bill be adopted, and I also thank you for your support, honourable Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your complementary explanation. The competent home work body is the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, and I hereby give the floor to Vice-President Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u20	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 8th session. 5. 2019 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Personal Name Act. At its 32nd regular meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the SNS Parliamentary Group to Article 1 and the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB by Articles 5, 9 and 12. The State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior gave an additional explanation to the article of the bill. The latter shall, inter alia, address certain deficiencies detected in the implementation of the current arrangements in practice. The key novelty of the bill is the removal of the limitation of the number of words or indivisible wholes in the name and surname chosen by an individual for legal transport. In drawing up the name as part of a personal name, letters, as well as abbreviations may also be used as part of the personal name. The time limit for changing the surname after the divorce or annulment of the marriage is extended, since, in particular in cases of divorce of spouses abroad, the time limit has been too short. The submission of an application for a change of name will instead be linked to the full business capacity of an individual. Reservations for the change of personal name shall also be extended, for example, to probationary penalties for offences prosecuted under official duty for the duration of the probationary period. Certain terminology changes and solutions brought by the proposed law are the result of coordination with the Family Code and the Partnerships Act. Following the discussion and replies of the State Secretary, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 5, 9 and 12 of the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB, and the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 1 was not adopted by the Committee. Following the discussion, the Committee voted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on all articles of the draft law together with 10 votes in favour and one against.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have the first word, Mr Robert Polnar, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u22	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! The Personal Name Act has been in force for more than 13 years and has not been amended to date. This time, it must be amended primarily to comply with the Family Code and the Partnership Law, and the application of the law in practice has also demonstrated the need for some other amendments and additions. In the Desus Group as an essential novelty transmitted by the proposal for a new Law on Personal Name, we stress the removal of restrictions on the number of words or indivisible wholes in the individual name and name chosen for legal traffic. There is a possibility that you may have a name in legal traffic after more than two words. Under the current regime, an individual with more than two names or surnames had to choose a name for legal traffic containing a maximum of two names or two surnames. The draft law also introduces the possibility of drawing up a personal name, which includes letters as part of a personal name in addition to the word, while also allowing for legal traffic the shortening of the name and surname, but cannot consist of a name and a legal name. With regard to the elimination of the restriction on the personal name for legal traffic in two words, we have had certain concerns in our parliamentary group. We are concerned about how this provision will be implemented in reality. Or will there be absurd cases when someone chooses a large number of names and surnames, which will result in administrative complications and obstacles to the introduction of so many characters into public records. In Slovenia, for example, there are just over 75,000 people in two words on behalf of Slovenia, and three more than 3 000. After two words in his last name, he has slightly less than 80,000 people and three times 765. To our concerns, the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, or more specifically, responded with a high bureaucratic confidence that concerns are excessive and that matters will be handled through upgrades and adjustments to information systems. We'll see. We understand, however, that the arrangements in force need to be adapted mainly to the recording of the names of foreigners. I also stress the provision under which the application for a change of personal name after a new name will be linked to the full business capacity of an individual and not, as it was now, to a full age. Some people have acquired a business ability before they reach adulthood, so this provision makes sense. The proposal for a law extends reservations to change the personal name. As a reservation, a conditional penalty shall also be imposed for the offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official duty for the duration of the probationary period. Members of the Desus Group do not oppose the bill. I mentioned our main concern, but we also had a proposal for a supplement, based on knowledge of concrete cases from everyday life. In the area of foster care, for example, it is difficult for parents to change their parents ’ name. They can do so more than once, even after the child has responded to the name he has become accustomed to, and the foster father and the child only receives a notification of the new name. We have proposed to include in the law a provision under which a child in foster care is restricted or prohibited from changing his name. The bill has explained to us that this is not possible under this novel, which we accept. As it is said, Members of the Desus Group do not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Member, Mr Dušan Šiško, you will present your position on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u24	Nice greeting, president, minister, everyone in the hall! One-letter names do not belong in our cultural space, and it is right to stress this in the National Party that we strongly protest the proposed changes, which they wish to introduce the possibility of a single name or surname. Slovenians have always been proud of their language, of their writings, of their texts, writers, poets. This law follows the European tendencies of society's multiculturalism and the destruction of the independent independent languages of the Member States. A personal name is the right of a citizen and a service to distinguish and identify natural persons. Although the names have changed over time, the originality of modern - day parents is particularly evident in newly developed popular and unusual names. In spite of them, it will be a long time before the top of the list of the most common are those given to us by our parents. The biggest problem we see in the Slovenian National Party Group is that both judgments, which form part of government material, deal with cases of European citizens. In one judgment it concerns the decision of a Danish-German citizen and in another judgment of Spanish-Belgian citizenship. In both cases, these are persons who are European citizens. However, the Government notes in its explanation of the Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Name Act that the proposed amendment should be adopted due to globalisation and mass migration. In the context of this explanation or even more justification, it is more than obvious that mass migration relates to globalisation, i.e. migration from African and Asian continents and certainly not migration from the EU, which must be allowed in the light of the freedom of free movement of persons. The law is also written in the direction of recognition of single-letter names that are undoubtedly characteristic of the people of the continent and not of Europeans. In our country, we never knew the names or surnames of just one letter, so now we can have someone to sign for A. So where did we come from? It took me quite a while to find a one-letter last name on the Internet, and that is, say, O in Asia. Smart countries have already pointed out that no Member State should be required to recognise the names given to nationals of other countries in accordance with foreign law if those names do not conform to the construction of the national language of the State which is an essential part of the national heritage. In the area of personal names, there is still an important aspect of the national language, and it has already been recognised by the EU court alone that the imposition of language rules in the Member States can be justified – the case of Bulgak v Ukraine. The identification of a person’s name falls within the area of personal status law and has nothing to do with EU law. It is important to point out the International Commission for Personal Status, but in the same breath I would like to point out that no convention of this international organisation has ratified more than 7 Member States. Then why do we have to? In the process of addressing this law, on the Internal Affairs Committee, we have proposed an amendment that we wanted to prevent from gradually introducing distorted forms of personal names hidden in the Slovenian cultural heritage. The expected amendment was not accepted. We have bound the law to our amendment. He wasn't accepted because we're the opposition. Since our amendment has not been adopted, we renounce support for this law, so we will not support the proposed amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Group. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, guests! I will not repeat the Government's explanation for the proposed amendments to the law, because this does not bring any added value. It is only worth noting that the fundamental change in this novel is the removal of the limitation of the number of words or indivisible wholes on behalf of and the surname chosen by an individual for legal transport, and the time limit for changing the surname after divorce or the annulment of the marriage is also extended. The change of law follows or is also consistent with the Family Code. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that certain solutions in this law are completely unnecessary or are prepared very badly, because we must, and we must, first and foremost respect our linguistic and cultural identity. What I would like to point out in this context is the concern I have already expressed on the committee responsible, namely the elimination of the limitation of the number of words or indivisible wholes on behalf of the individual and the name chosen for legal traffic. When considering the law on the parental committee, it answers the question of why such an approach and whether the proposed solutions may not favour a specific part of the population such as migrants, I have not received a proper response. It is most unusual, however, that, by the government coalition and also representatives of the government, we have always heard that there are no mass migrations in our country, and it is in this law that you follow the actual situation that you do not want to officially recognise, namely that mass migration is a reality that they demonstrate even to this extent, that they demand that national legislation be adapted to their benefit. This is also evidenced by the solution mentioned above. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we insist that the selection of names should follow the culture of the country in which the person resides and the available letters and characters to record his personal name in the Republic of Slovenia. This law, however, brings exactly the opposite, and is therefore considered inappropriate in this part. We also believe that an extension of the time limit for changing the last name for nine months to one year after the divorce is unnecessary. Also because they have not received a clear reply on the reasons for such a proposal on the committee responsible. Nine months, Your Honor, is not such a short time that someone at this time would not be able to change their data. Last but not least, we all know that when it comes to moving or changing residence, these matters must be handled much earlier or within a shorter period of time. Given that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Personal Name Act also brings some really necessary changes, we will still decide on the vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mrs Tina Heferle, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Marjan Sarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A personal name is a personal right and different human rights are associated with a personal name. For example, the right to privacy, freedom of expression, the right to express nationality and cultural affiliation, and some others. And while the choice of a personal name is also a duty, in the first place it is a personal right of an individual; even more so, the right to a personal name has become an international standard today and is also explicitly mentioned in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In addition to that personal name in a narrower sense, it constitutes a means of identifying an individual in society and also legal traffic, and it can often reveal even an individual’s connection to a particular geographical area or national affiliation and other personal circumstances of an individual. In this respect, it is also possible to understand the proposed amendments and additions to the Personal Name Act. The provisions which have so far proved problematic are being abolished and amended. Among them may be the most observable change that eliminates the limitation of a personal name to two words or to two indivisible ones. This follows the decision of the European Court of Justice, which found that such practice constitutes a serious violation of human rights to free movement and residence in the territory of the Member States. Finally, it should be stressed that we already have 3,000 people with more than two personal names in Slovenia, and these citizens deserve the same treatment of their personal name. Among the proposed amendments and additions, for example, is the abolition of the non-life provision that a person who wishes to take over the partner’s name when entering a marriage or partnership – and is a foreigner – must have permanent residence in the country from which the marriage partner originates. There is also an extension of the time limit for the declaration of a change in the surname when the marriage is dissolved or terminated, and the law also contains the solutions needed to harmonise legislation and terminology with the Family Code and the Partnership Law. With the amendments we have proposed, we also address the question of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly regarding the competence to decide on the change in the personal name of the person who is in charge of the business, and we have also identified ourselves as to which cases a businessman can change his personal name and in which he is not. In short, we estimate that the law is well and well prepared, and in the LMŠ Group we will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Bojana Muršič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much again for your word, President. The new Law on Personal Name proposes solutions following the Law on Partnerships, which introduces a new institution of the community and is an equivalent legal relationship, and the terminological amendment of the Law on Personal Name is also in line with the Family Code. Therefore, the Social Democrats will also support the amendment of the Personal Name Act, which has been tabled by the Government in the legislative process. But it should be stressed that there are fewer difficult changes and the terminological additions to the law. The bill also addresses some of the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in practice in the 12 or 13 years of implementation of the Personal Name Act. One such flaw is the limitation of a personal name or surname to two words. In practice, such a restriction has proved to be problematic. At the time of birth, a person with multiple names or indivisible full name or surname had to express and choose which words of personal name he would use in legal traffic. National legislation allows many times for a different composition of a personal name, such as in other countries of the European Union or in countries around the world where a person was born or lived. The case law of the European Court of Justice states that the restriction of words or letters on personal behalf violates the right to free movement and residence in the territory of the Member States laid down in Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This amendment removes this restriction and thus follows the European Court of Justice and, as part of a personal name, it will also be possible to use letters in legal traffic as well as abbreviations. It is also not to be overlooked that in Slovenia we have as many as 75 000 127 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who have two words in their name or have two names, and as many as 79 thousand 304 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who have two words in their surname or two surnames, according to data from the August 2018 register. A personal name may be changed to a request from a full-time citizen, but it may also be at the request of a minor, by the conclusion of a marriage, or if the parent becomes operationally competent. In the case of divorce, the spouse or partner has the possibility of amending the legislation now in force within six months, but after the new proposed solution this period is extended for a year, as the practice has shown that the six-month period is too short, especially when divorce occurs from abroad. In Slovenia, a change of personal name is prohibited for persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted on official duty until the punishment is carried out or the legal consequences persist. In practice, however, there have been different explanations as to whether a change in the personal name is allowed to the person for whom the trial period is running, the applicant, namely the Government, has decided that the trial period also constitutes a reservation to the change of the personal name. In short, let me repeat, the Social Democrats will be in line with two laws and, last but not least, with the decision of the European Court of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u32	Have a nice hello! I am pleased today that this is another law that is changing also because the Partnership Act has been adopted and adopted in the National Assembly on my proposal. This is not the last law we're going to have to change because of this. I believe that, of course, this brings us closer to modern European countries that respect human rights in the first place. Today there has been a lot of talk about what a personal name actually accomplishes, especially if we allow in some way also a person to express himself freely and to tell who he is, where he comes from and what he wants to report. However, very few people know that we exercise a number of human rights through our personal name: first and foremost the right to privacy, the right to freedom of expression, the right to use our language and writing, the right to express national identity, the right to cultural identity, the right to dignity and, lastly, equality. There's very little talk about that. We only deal with a name and, above all, with some ways to prevent it and how to make Slovenia clean and to convince ourselves that it is actually necessary to limit or even change the names of people who are wrong or not in accordance with our culture. In fact, that's what the Nazis did in the past, and someone else. I hope that by amending this law we have also changed this mentality and thinking that we are perfect, the only and, of course, the only ones called to say who we are and who we are. That is why we will be happy to adopt this law into the SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. To present your position, you have the word Mr Blaž Pavlin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u34	Dear President, honourable fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The Government Amendment of the Personal Name Act removes the current limitation of the personal name to a maximum of two names and two surnames that an individual may choose for legal traffic while allowing the possibility of using the letter in a personal name and shortening the name and surname in legal traffic. A personal name for legal traffic so far may consist of words or indivisible integers and letters of name and surname. The citizen will also be able to choose a shorter name and surname for legal transport, such as a combination of words and letters or a combination of words and letters, such as Marija K. Novak or Marija Milena K. Novak. In Novi Slovenija, we do not object to some of today's amendments, including the fact that a personal name cannot be changed by a citizen who is conditionally convicted of an offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under an official obligation for the duration of the probationary period, or by extending the period for the change of surname after the divorce or annulment of the marriage. Indeed, the right to freely choose a personal name is one of the fundamental human rights. It is a personal right, but we have concerns about the shortening of the name and surname, which are unusual for our place and are confusing in Slovenian spelling. The Government, as a proposal for amendments, lists the ever-increasing desire of citizens to change their personal name, which would contain only one letter or a shortening of their name or surname. Although such unitary names exist, these are rare cases. The government says that due to the marked approximation of languages due to globalisation and mass migration, this phenomenon cannot be avoided. Such an argument is unacceptable – for Slovenian space the name and surname, which has only one letter, is unusual and means the distortion of a personal name. The personal name shows the identity of the person and also determines his or her roots. The reference to mass migration points to our excessive concern for the names of these people and our lack of concern for the preservation of Slovenian national consciousness. In New Slovenia, we believe that instead of these changes relating to changes in names that do not bring any added value to anyone, we should discuss and solve the real problems of our society. It is a pity that the priority of the government's work is only to solve imaginary problems and to play with a combination of letters and numbers in a personal name. In fact, it is a broad opening of the door to everything that is not Slovenian. In the light of the above, in New Slovenia we will not support the amendment and amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As last on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Marko Bandelli, Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u36	Honourable President, Your Honor Minister, all present! A personal name is an essential element of a person's personality. On the basis of a personal name, each individual shall be identified and distinguished from other natural persons. It is the right and duty of an individual to use a personal name and to prove his identity with it. The main objective of the bill is to enable citizens to exercise one fundamental human rights, namely the right to choose a personal name freely. The bill mainly addresses the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the law in practice. They shall also comply with the Partnership Act and the Family Code, which prescribes certain terminology changes in the Personal Name Act. The Law on Partnership introduced a new institution of the community, a partnership, and the Family Code replaces the term parental rights with the expression parental care. The period for the change of last name after the divorce or annulment of the marriage shall be extended from six months to one year. According to the Ministry, the practice has shown that the deadline is too short in certain cases. The current regime, which has been in force since 2006, lays down or amends a personal name for legal traffic by limiting a personal name to two words or indivisible in its entirety on behalf and surname. Consequently, persons who have several indivisible wholes in their personal name must choose which of the words will be used in legal traffic. One of the most visible, and for some of the controversial changes, is the lifting of this restriction. This follows the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. This has resulted in a violation if a person in another country is unable to use a personal name such as he or she may use in his or her home country. In such cases, the European Court of Justice also considers that the right to movement and the right to reside in the territory of the Member States are not respected. The proposed regime also allows for the use of letters as part of the basic name and the possibility of shortening the name and surname for legal purposes. In the SAB Group, we will support the proposal of the Personal Name Act as it is a matter of exercising one of the fundamental human rights. We are convinced that every individual should be allowed the opportunity to use his personal name in legal traffic in full – thus allowing respect for the rights given to the individual at birth is therefore inseparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded with the presentation of the parliamentary positions. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 20 June 2019, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving, honourable Members, to the 10th DOT OF THE DAY – THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec. On this proposal, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! It is high time that the legislation governing international protection is aligned with our northern neighbours. Indeed, in recent years, legislation covering the area of international protection has been substantially tightened, for all that has been a common denominator in recent years, typical of Slovenia and, of course, of neighbouring countries, is a massive abuse of the right to asylum; the abuse that we still pay taxpayers dearly. That is why we have proposed a law that provides for more than one set. First, to shorten the deadlines necessary for the implementation of the individual parts of the procedure from the first definition, application and so on; then to finally introduce the solution already proposed by Minister of Interior Györköšev in the previous term, and then to leave her own coalition, regrettably, to the detriment of someone entering from a secure country or from a European Union country, of course, in Slovenia, then cannot ask for asylum. This is a typical example of this so-called asylum shopping, which until recently has also been prosecuted as a crime, even an international congress on the persecution of asylum shopping has been a few years ago, and, of course, this is only a reflection of the fact that those who come are not refugees in the international sense of the word – it is said to be people who save their lives or personal integrity – but are people who want to parasiate to the social states of the host and who are looking for the one that is most beneficial. From this point of view, it should be stressed that this is another very important element. In the last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken two steps that have given an extremely extremely wrong signal to illegal migrants, how welcome they are to be here across the board. The first was the accession and signature to the Marrakesh global agreement on secure regulated and legal migration, where we heard as a fundamental argument that if we do not do so in Slovenia, Slovenia will remain a lonely island because all of our northern neighbours will do so. Well, of course, reality is exactly the opposite; none of our northern neighbours, from the potential target countries in our neighborhood, has acceded to the Marrakesh Agreement and has signed it, and it is because of the government's actions that left the island at the top of the Balkan pocket, which signals the promised land to illegal migrants. And illegal migrants are not some amorphous crowd, but in their invasion they are still well organized, interlinked, equipped with means of communication, to connect with the Internet and very well aware of what each country is doing, so these signals are still being taken into account and understood. Another such signal remained almost undetected a few days ago. This can in the long term also be so harmful to the international situation of Slovenia that it is hardly possible to believe that this could have happened. The government, which always refers to international treaties, has unilaterally declared Turkey a dangerous country of origin, in particular the harmonised European obligations and solutions or joint acts, the joint moves, the common international policy. Please note that the 2016 agreement between Turkey and the European Union, which is certainly not ideal, but does work, works only and was the only common achievement in the field of foreign policy to stop the migratory flow, was based on the fact that Turkey is a safe country of origin and has been accepted by all countries. Slovenia has now unilaterally deviated from this and has once again given an extremely wrong signal to illegal migrants, and in their eyes it becomes a promised land. It is even worse that Slovenia is a member of the Schengen family and that everyone can now come here inside the Schengen area and abuse this wrong move made by the Slovenian government. That is why we need even more a different move; the move that will give the opposite signal, the new Law on International Protection, which we are proposing and which makes the conditions for international protection substantially tighter. More later than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you for your introduction, Mr. Ambassador. Now you have the floor, Mr. Minister, as a representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u40	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! International protection in the Republic of Slovenia is governed by common European asylum legislation. The key purpose of the Common European Asylum Policy is to create an area of freedom, security and justice open to all those who are forced by circumstances to legitimately seek protection. As an EU Member State, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to respect European legislation in the field of international protection. European legislation on international protection has been transposed into national legal order by the Law on International Protection. In addition to amending and supplementing the law in the substantive sense, it intervenes in the provisions on exclusion from the status of international protection, the conditions for recognition of the status of international protection, the procedure for recognition of international protection and the concept of safe countries. In a substantive sense, the proposal also interferes with the rights of persons with international protection. The Law on International Protection is fully in line with the European Union's common asylum system or asylum legislation. Any amendment or addition to that law must also be based on common European asylum legislation. With regard to new grounds for exclusion from refugee status and subsidiary protection status, it should be clarified that the grounds for exclusion from refugee status are laid down in the Convention on the Status of Refugees and the Directive on Standards for Conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons in order to be granted refugee status. Furthermore, it should be clarified that the Directive on common procedures for the recognition or withdrawal of international protection - and consequently the law in force - provides that applications for international protection must not be rejected or excluded from consideration only because it has not been lodged as soon as possible. With regard to the rejection of the application as inadmissible in the event that it is clear, in the light of the circumstances of the entry, that the applicant has entered the Republic of Slovenia from a country which is a Member State of the European Union, it should be pointed out that the proposed solution in European Union legislation, which also provides for a national framework for the regulation of international protection, does not have a basis. The criteria and mechanisms on the basis of which a Member State responsible for dealing with an individual application for international protection and on the basis of which individual applications may be considered inadmissible because another Member State is responsible for its treatment shall lay down the Dublin Regulation, which shall apply directly. The Court of Justice of the European Union, in its transitional provision in the AS case against Slovenia in July 2017, decided that the Dublin Regulation is also applicable in situations of mass arrival of persons. With regard to the proposal to withdraw the status of international protection in the event of serious infringements of the house order, it should be clarified that the proposed provisions are contrary to the Convention on the Status of Refugees and the Directive setting out the reasons for the cessation and withdrawal of refugee status. In view of all the above, the Government opposes the proposal for amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your introduction. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support the law that we have tabled, of course, because we do not agree that the current government of Marjan Sarca puts all illegal migrants before citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia illegal migrants have more rights than their own citizens and citizens. We talked about this many times in the National Assembly. There are a number of documents on this subject, notably the irrefutable evidence of the Court of Auditors, which, in its opinion or observations alone, stated that an illegal migrant costs the Republic of Slovenia more than a thousand 900 euros a month. Which citizen gets a thousand 900 euros a month, we can ask ourselves and we know the answer – few. And next time you adopt such laws and reject such laws as we propose today, remember all those pensioners living with 400 euros of pensions, and you spend a thousand 970 euros a month for every illegal migrant. Why we believe that the adoption of this law is necessary – because Slovenia must be a safe country. If the law applies to our citizens, the law must also apply to migrants. The media, of course, only some, those who do not comply with the global agreement on safe and orderly migration are practically reporting daily offences and crimes committed by asylum seekers in the Republic of Slovenia. What happens to them? Does one of these refuse a request for an act he has committed? Is someone being evicted because of an act he's committed? No! No! It is still paid for a thousand 970 euros a month, it is still in supply, it can still walk freely in Slovenia and it can also go to other countries, which is why Austria has closed the border, so we know what Italy is planning, or our Foreign Minister Miro Cerar, which itself offers our own police units to help Italy close the border – where? –; not at sea, not at the Slovenian-Croatian border, but at the Slovenian-Italian border, meaning that it would stop the transition of those migrants who are going from our country to Italy. This led to the fall of borders, resulting in the fall of Schengen because it was broken in two countries; for the first time in Greece and for the second time in Slovenia. According to our bill, all those who commit a crime would immediately leave our country, escort them to the border where they entered Croatia, and deliver them to the Croatian security authorities who are obliged to accept them. When the Minister speaks of the Dublin Regulation – Angela Merkel herself said in the time of the greatest refugee crisis, as she called it, but it was indeed a migration crisis, in 2015-2016 that Germany would not respect Dublin. Of course, because they wanted to keep those who would benefit the German state from their economy. When they found that there are no astrophysicists, that there are no engineers, that there are no surgeons, that they are people who have never done anything, that they are people who will not do anything in Europe, that they are people who come to Europe just to enjoy the prosperity that has been built for centuries, so that Europeans can live as we live, so that today we can debate in this Chamber as we do, but these people pose a threat to our way of life and our civilization. Someone who comes from countries where radical Islam rules will never be integrated into a European civilisation based on Christian foundations, and such people here cannot be welcomed. Such people sitting in Europe after terrorism and death must not be welcome to us and everything must be done to protect borders. And someone who really runs from persecution, from oppression, from war, from someone who runs for his own life — I don't think there's one in here who doesn't agree that he needs help. But for someone who runs for his own life in five, six, seven safe countries, we rightly ask ourselves whether he is running for his life or running to save his wallet, that those in Europe who pay taxes, those who create added value in the economy, will finance his journey and his stay in Europe. These people will never do anything. These people will live only on social support. From the money created by those who are employed, those who work, those who care from morning to evening that the state works, that the economy functions, that children in kindergarten are protected, that young people are educated, that citizens have healthcare. These people are funding those who come from Arab countries, from countries in the Middle East, from countries in North Africa, and these people here will not do what some imagine they will do. If France, if Belgium, Sweden, Denmark has not been able to integrate the third generation of immigrants living with them – how they will or how we will integrate those coming from the countries of radical Islam, among which, according to the data of the security and intelligence services and also according to the police, the terrorists of the Islamic State or so-called returnees – about 8.9,000 of them – have gone from Europe to the battlefields of the Islamic State to Syria and Iraq. Now that the arrival of new US President Donald Trump the Islamic State has been defeated by different military tactics and by a different approach, they are now returning during this so-called wave. We have been in the previous term, I think, twice with the Defence Committee at the border where we have seen the actual situation. There were no women and children among these people. There weren't any of these old people. They were in 1991, 1992, 1993, and so on, when the war in Bosnia was over, over 70,000 people came to Slovenia at the time, because there was war in the Balkans, it helped everyone, nobody refused, but it helped women, children and the elderly, and young boys and men fought for their country. Today, young boys and men from Arab countries, instead of fighting for their country, instead of fighting against turned terrorists, come to Europe, and women, children and the elderly leave home for mercy and mercy. And where is the solution? The solution is, here I will agree with Levica to stop interfering and destroying countries where problems arise. Another solution is to start solving problems where they originate — at the very source. When Turkey asks for help, we do not agree to blackmail, we do not pay three billion and after Islamist dictator Erdogan remembers that another three billion, if not, will open the door to pay him back three billion, but it is necessary to make safe zones, invest in the education system, invest in those state institutions that are needed for the countries to function. When we were in April at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Turkey, we played a football game with refugee children from Syria. What are the Turks gonna do? There were quite a few young people there who were very promising. Those who are promising will keep, put in their football schools, maybe get some great football player for Fenerbahce, if not for any other club, the rest will go back. But any of these guys you talk to, they don't want to go back. Even if you ask when the war will end or when relations are calming down, will you go back to your countries? No, "we want to stay here." That's tens of millions of people in Africa, in the Middle East waiting for their chance to go to Europe. Europe will not tolerate such a wave. If we do not change legislation in the direction of tightening the conditions for the right to international protection, then we will have even worse problems than we already have today. What we are proposing today was proposed by Interior Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar in the previous term, but at that time the Modern Centre Party mined its own internal minister's proposal. At the time of the bill, she proposed – I think it was under the amendment – and this amendment then hit the SMC part of Brglez and the matter did not go through. If I were then to accept this amendment in the previous term, that someone who comes from a safe country cannot ask us for asylum until Croatia, Hungary, Italy and Austria are safe from these countries, it means that if someone comes, they cannot ask me to do so today, and the Minister will admit it. This is also acknowledged by the Director-General of Police. It's too bad you didn't accept it at the time – say it out loud, Mr. Minister, and not just in the conversation in the hallways. Please tell me that it is a shame that you did not accept this law at the time, because today it would make things easier for you because someone who crosses seven safe countries cannot then apply for asylum with us. Someone who comes from a safe country, from a nearby safe country, can't ask us for asylum. Someone who commits a crime with us can't and can't get asylum. Free movement; after applying for this protection and after this free movement – the objectives of the state of Austria, Germany, Scandinavian countries and some others, where this well-first date is, it is said, this social state is somewhere most at a level where the high children's allowances, where they are richly paid for their work by so-called astrophysicists, engineers and surgeons. There's not one of them to prove himself! Twenty of them were hired in the Airbus — they quickly found out that they were not drinking water. You can't trust those who can't handle things to assemble planes. If we adopt this law today, it means that the Republic of Slovenia will have scissors and linen in its hands to close the southern border. Croatia will also know about this change of legislation and they will have to act in this direction, because all who come from Croatia will have to return to us strictly. And you obviously don't want this tool. You continue to want to import, in accordance with the Marrakesh Declaration and the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration, the illegal migrants that you have made legal with this declaration or with this global agreement and share here the money created by the Slovenes and Slovenians, and, of course, to expect that, after a while, they will also get the election right to elect your customers, but I don't think that will be the case. The only responsible policy for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the only responsible, safe policy, security policy, is that today our bill is adopted and that Slovenia sends a clear signal: we welcome all foreigners who come to us in a legal way, who come to enrich our society not by criminal acts, but by working to welcome all those who need help to us, but are not in their vicinity, because they are also persecuted there, and that we do not welcome those who are coming to us and who come from neighbouring safe countries. If someone is not satisfied in Croatia, it is not my problem if someone is not satisfied in Serbia, Bosnia, Greece, that is not my problem and that is not our problem, that is his problem. Its basic security is already being taken care of in Greece. Greece is a safe country. Turkey – you have now done well for yourself, not when you removed it from the list. You take a few more countries off the list, which means everyone who wants to come to us is even more welcome. Today, this law allows Slovenia to remain credible, to continue to respect all our international obligations, while at the same time having a responsible, security policy and responsible policy towards its citizens and citizens. The European way of life is not a human right.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the party's position. Ms Tina Heferle, you will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia is a full member of the European Union and, as such, is, of course, committed to respect European legislation that seeks to establish a common asylum system in the field of the regulation of the status and rights of foreigners, applicants for international protection. In this light too, Slovenia is committed to respect for directives, regulations and conventions governing minimum standards as regards the conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons in order to be eligible for international protection. As a country that respects both national and European and international law, we must also strive, or above all, at the legislative level to ensure respect for and ensure common criteria on the basis of which all European Union countries implement an international protection policy. In determining which persons truly need international protection, we must ensure that the minimum standards adopted in the field of international protection are respected. In accordance with the principle of validity and the hierarchy of legal acts in our legal system, we have the opportunity to regulate in national legislation any area governed by any of the directives of the European Union only and only more favourably, which is not guaranteed by the proposed law. On the contrary! The proposed amendment of the law unjustifiably exacerbates the conditions for the recognition of international protection, and even the third attempt of the applicant is not in line with European asylum policy. The fact that we have several applications for asylum in Slovenia, while stressing that 80% of the applicants leave our country before the completion of the procedure, does not justify the adoption of such a bill to actually undermine European legislation that seeks to establish a common asylum system. Finally, by the Ministry of the Interior, we were able to hear that things are manageable and that there is no need to amend legislation. Of course, we trust such assurance from the Ministry of the LMŠ Group and will therefore reject the proposed amendment of the law unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Mag. Mr Bojana Muršič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much for the word – again. The proposed amendment to the Law on International Protection, which has already been drawn up several times in the SDS, does not, in their view, deviate significantly from the objectives of the legislation in force. It follows the principles of certainty, national security, public benefit, protection of people and property, border protection and protection of the Schengen border with the proposed solutions. However, a three-day period shall be laid down for the competent authority in which the alien wishing to enter Slovenia must express his intention to submit an application for international protection and state his reasons. Emphasis is placed on circumstances under which the status of international protection or subsidiary protection is not recognised. It also states that the status is not recognised if there is a reasonable suspicion that a person has committed a crime in the Republic of Slovenia and that the provision on when the application is admissible and inadmissible is being supplemented. Issues related to international protection are an extremely important topic on the European Union floor. A number of measures and legislation have therefore been adopted in this area. In fact, the Law on International Protection is a law that implements a number of directives and regulations at the level of the European Union. Up to some of the measures, and also to certain provisions, we have had concerns about the Social Democrats and have highlighted them in past cases. That we were right or that we were condemning those who in any way want to poison the public with a negative attitude towards foreigners, Mrs Mijatović, in some way, is also attached to us by the Commissioner for Human Rights. Before the World Refugee Day, she said, quote, “Protection of human rights and effective migration management are not contradictory objectives”. It has also overturned all those policies that penalize non-governmental organizations, ship captains and shipowners for saving people's lives. We are all aware of the traps and consequences of the massive uncontrolled crossing of the borders of the European Union and of the inadequate integration plan in national countries, but with offensive and hate propaganda we will not help solve the problems. The European Union, which behaves with the free movement of goods, services, knowledge and not least of human beings, is a great gain, at least this way we assess those who recall waiting at the borders of neighbouring countries, obtaining visas, for example for France, and could also mention. It is interesting for us, the people of Europe, to be interested in many third-country nationals, countries facing authoritarian over-repressive power, political instability, political persecution of other thinkers, and also the wrong religious leaders. In addition to these facts, they are prepared to achieve their personal goals after a better life, for example, in Europe, countries with a larger economy, and not least with the knowledge that there is a shortage of labour in an ageing Europe, putting on its own uncertain path. Migrations, illegal and legal, are and will be in the future, no matter how many police officers and soldiers will be at the border, no matter how many cutting wires or panel fences will surround the Republic of Slovenia or, if you like, will surround the Member States of the European Union. Everyone who comes to Europe is certainly not ISIS fighters, nor are criminals and bullies. Yes, of course, this can also become like the citizens of European countries. They, too, can radicalize and carry out the worst discarded violent and criminal acts against their relatives and fellow citizens. But violence does not differ by sex, not by race, not by religious affiliation, but at least by individual education. But he gives birth to him, and encourages neglect, defilement, and hatred toward strangers, as well as to those who are not of our own accord. We will not support the proposal for a bill proposed by the SDS Group of Members and Members of the Social Democrats. It therefore concludes that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, and we will not support it. Social Democrats, however, condemn all violence and condemn the spread of fear of something unknown. However, we demand and support the conduct of the State to take care of human and country security with all available resources, together with the Member States of the European Union, in the national countries and in the European Union. Finally, I would like to quote the Commissioner once again, "States have the right to control their borders and to ensure security, but they are also committed to the effective protection of rights in accordance with maritime law, human rights law and international refugee conventions." Therefore, the Republic of Slovenia also has the right and duty to control its borders as it has the right and duty to prevent and suppress all criminal acts, as also stated in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2019-2023, which will be discussed in the next item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Janja Sluga, Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much. At this regular meeting of the National Assembly, we will also, it seems, address the SDS's winter political agenda – the refugee and migrant crisis, of course, in the model of the neighbouring countries and political parties, where political parties such as the Strache Freedoms, or the Salvini League, or Orban's Fides, have successfully skyrocketed and gained power with the same themes. We have already had five meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly on the issue of migration in this mandate before this law, of which two have been held in the last month. It is, of course, worth noting that it appears that the Committee on Internal Affairs, the Public Administration and the Local Authority, led by the SDS Member, will have a permanent open point on illegal migration and the protection of the Schengen border with countless – and, whenever necessary, the continuation of the meeting which was, of course, called upon to its or its request. It appears, however, that these meetings were also some kind of overture to deal with this novel of the Law on International Protection, which we are talking about today. The SDS Group and Members wish to tighten the conditions for the recognition of international protection in order to ensure national security and public benefit, human security and property. This is already the third proposal with similar solutions after 2015 and 2018. The key difference that is evident from the comparison of all the above mentioned amendments to the Law on International Protection is that this time they decided not to insist on all of the 2015 or 2018 solutions that constituted serious violations of the protection of rights under international law, European law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, we can't go blind. This proposal also violates the provisions of international conventions, as well as the provisions of the European acquis in the field of international protection and, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is contrary to the Convention on the Status of Refugees, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Procedural Directive, the Dublin Regulation and could also be listed. Otherwise, the SMC would like to point out that there have been minimum standards in place since 2003 which are also respected by the Member States of the European Union in ensuring asylum policy. Therefore, these were already in force at the time when the SDS ran the government and when Slovenia presided over the European Union, so any transfer is superfluous. The proposers decided to re-examine in 2019 the amendments to Article 51 and the solutions supported three years ago by the former SMC Minister of Interior. In this respect, it is worth noting that the circumstances were completely different in 2015 at the time. At that time, Slovenia faced tens of thousands of migrants a month and hundreds of thousands a year, not a few hundred a month and a few thousand a year at an annual level, as is the case today. Even then, despite the Minister's approval, the SMC Group rejected such proposals. And we will do the same this time. We estimate in the SMC that it is unnecessary to create panic and spread fear – again or still. We estimate that there are no reasons for the emergency and such measures. Slovenia is mainly a transit country, and for the first time in the European Union, 580 000 845 people were asked for asylum last year, which is 11% less than the previous year and almost 50% less than in 2015, when a million 256 thousand 610 applications were submitted. Nearly a third and 28% of all asylum applications were lodged in Germany last year, followed by France and Greece, with 110 thousand 485 and 19% and 64 thousand 975 and 11% respectively. In Slovenia the number of first asylum seekers increased to around 2 000 800 between 2017 and 2018. This is about a thousand 400 requests per million inhabitants, which marks us as the lower third of the Member States. In doing so, I would like to point out that last year, Slovenia granted protection to only 105 asylum seekers, i.e. only 3.7% of all who requested it. One hundred applicants were granted refugee status and five applicants were granted subsidiary protection. Despite the fact that both 2015 and 2018 have failed with their proposals and that, as already stated, they do not have an emergency situation, they still insist on their proposals. This time, however, they gave up certain proposals for solutions that were clearly contrary to the international and European Union's law, such as expulsion for offences. However, they continue to insist on all crimes and serious violations of the house order, which is totally incomparable or disproportionate. We therefore note that this time they have not done much to violate the Convention on the Status of Refugees, which is also defined within the scope of the Convention by the Standards Directive on the conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons in order to recognise their refugee status. The provisions concerning the withdrawal of international protection status in the event of serious infringements of the household order are also contrary to those acts. Otherwise, other proposals for solutions either do not follow the provisions of the so-called Procedural Directive of the European Union or are contrary to the Foreigners Act or do not follow the recommendations of the Ombudsman or even make border control more difficult for the police. In the SMC Group, we do not see any valid reasons for the Republic of Slovenia to impose additional labour and administrative burdens on these international bases of refugee law on the European Union while at the same time creating internal inconsistencies in its own legislation and police, thereby making it more difficult and not easier to control borders and prevent further migration. Given that the law currently in force fully follows the conventions of the United Nations and the directives and regulations of the European Union, the proposal de facto constitutes a failure to respect the international obligations of Slovenia, while at the same time it represents water to the mills of those who undermine both the legitimacy and the validity of international law, and thus the existence and functioning of both international organisations, the United Nations and the European Union of which we are members. The SDS has therefore put itself on the side of Trump and its refugee clean-up in the United States, blackmailing the building of a wall with illegal budgetary transfers and threats to Mexico with regard to the introduction of customs if it does not prevent migration. On the other hand, on the Orban side, which in its performances has always announced that there are two groups of countries in Europe; those who are or will be taken by migrants; and those who will not be taken. As it has been shown so far, the SDS falls into this category. Nevertheless, in the SMC we are aware that migration today is a global problem and thus a trans-European problem. No Member State can successfully deal with migration alone, so we need a new, European more harmonised approach and not the divisions imposed by certain policies such as Orban and similar. As a Member State of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia is committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system and to sharing the burden and solidarity between Member States in the reception of refugees. The key purpose of the Common European Asylum Policy is to create, on the one hand, security and on the other hand, as well as solidarity, and not least as an open-ended area for all those who are forced by circumstances to seek international protection in a just and just manner. The prolonged control at the internal Schengen borders introduced by some countries due to internal political conditions shows that if we want a European Union without internal borders, we need a substantially different asylum system. Therefore, Slovenia has repeatedly expressed its position at the level of the European Union to support the overall approach which deals with the change and reform of the Dublin system in parallel and in the context of other policies such as return policies, the protection of external borders, etc. It is therefore necessary to simplify Member States' policies in these or more areas. As you know, at the beginning of June, the European Union's internal ministers discussed migration challenges for the first time after the European elections and the late reforms of the asylum system. They have adopted a partially principled agreement on amending European legislation on the return of irregular migrants, but the final agreement is not yet in place because part of the directive is linked to the Dublin Regulation and is still in negotiations. Slovenia will continue to strive to achieve a more ambitious outcome of the negotiations, particularly when it comes to mutual recognition of decisions after return and practical cooperation between Member States in return. Otherwise, Slovenia will receive almost €73 million in the new financial perspective over the next seven years to protect the European Union's borders and manage migration from planned new funds – the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Integrated Border Management Fund. For these reasons, we do not support the SMC Group's proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President. Since the second half of 2015, when Slovenia faced the so-called refugee wave, we have witnessed constant anti-refugee and frightening propaganda by the SDS. In Europe as a whole, we are witnessing an increase in right-wing populism, which, by means of manipulation and lies, sows hatred of foreigners and other marginal groups throughout Europe, and today's bill of law is of course no different. In public, after five years of constant and tireless operation of the propaganda apparatus, the thought that foreigners, migrants, refugees and anyone else are to blame for all the problems. The smoke screen, which is constantly generated by the right, increasingly hides the view of the real culprits of the situation in which not only Slovenia, but the whole of Europe, were found. Topics such as the next wave of privatisation, which is increasingly moving from economic to health, social, education, including the issue of public money outflows, corruption, exploitation of workers, the increasing accumulation of wealth in the hands of a handful, are slowly devoured by this smoky commitment of lies and manipulation. When the environment is too exposed to the changed security conditions and the search for an external enemy, then we get a very simple recipe for disaster. This has also happened with us: cutting wire at the border, increasing police and military powers, IMSI hunters, paralysers and mass control over all those moving across Slovenia, not right-wing measures, but measures taken by the middle. Migration is a fact; it has always happened, including mass and even in the future, it will certainly be, only that and this time it is being abused for all possible harmful measures, including for the unreasonable exacerbation of asylum legislation. To make things easier, let's look at the facts, the numbers. There are now thousands of 515 asylum seekers in Slovenia. Up to now, 38 chicks were positively rescued in 2019. Last year, out of 2 000 975 applications for international protection, 102 were positively resolved. In the last 10 years, out of a total of 9 000 218 applications, 690 were positively resolved. The applicant for international protection therefore has about 7% of the possibility of gaining refugee status. If we look a little wider, for example, over the last 50 years, we can find that we face situations that force people to flee all the time. In the middle of the 1970s, Asia left almost 3 million people, and the number of internally displaced people is rising to about 20 million. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, after the conflicts escalated, Afghanistan became the largest refugee hotspot, from which more than 6 million people fled in 1979. In 1988 - 1990, some 2.2 million people fled from the second, war, drought, and famine of an exhausted area of the Horn of Africa. The third great focal point was Mozambique, from which between 1976 and 1992 5.7 million people fled. When we add traditional crisis hotspots and the American export of democracy and the netting of new conflicts, we get only in Syria and in 2015 alone almost 12 million refugees. After 4 and a half million Iraqis were also forced to leave home and 1.6 million Nigerians. For example, there are over a million people in Myanmar who are even stateless. At the same time, 5.2 million Palestinians were forced to leave their home. When we add it all together, we get 68 and a half million forcibly displaced all over the world. Of these, 85 % of all internally displaced persons are internally displaced, only 18 % of all refugees are displaced in high-income countries, while in the poorest 19 % are displaced. Among the countries that offer shelter to the most refugees are: Jordan with 3 million, Lebanon with 1 and a half million, Sudan, Ethiopia, Pakistan and Iran with about a million. For an even easier performance; in Lebanon, with a total of 6 million inhabitants, there are about 30% of the population of refugees – 1 and a half million. In the European Union, with 513 million inhabitants, this percentage is 0.4. Since 1990, the 513 million-million-dollar community has jointly adopted 2.3 million refugees or only 3% of internally displaced persons. Let's take a look at Slovenia. With just over 2 million people in Slovenia, about 6.6% of foreigners live, almost 0.04% of them foreigners. In comparison, we can look at this information; the largest refugee village Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh offers refuge to almost a million members of the minority Rohingya who were forced to flee Myanmar before certain deaths. That is, therefore, half as much as the entire European Union has accepted refugees. Let me point out once again that we are not talking about migrations that individuals choose for themselves. We're talking about 68 and a half million people who were forced to do this. According to UNHCR, 44 000 400 people are forced to leave their home every day. Let us see also the key reasons for escaping: persecution based on faith, race, nationality or political belief, war, hunger, extreme poverty, environmental and economic exhaustion. In Africa, conflicts are currently taking place in 30 countries, in Asia in 16, in the Middle East in 7. Together, at this point, conflicts and wars are taking place in 69 other countries. Among them are Afghanistan, Yemen, Pakistan, Somalia, Libya and Syria. In all of these, NATO also participates in the Pact and through it Slovenia. Economic and environmental exhaustion, hunger and climate change are the product of unbridled capitalism and the extreme promotion of Western consumerism, which, on the basis of the search for endless profits, is looking for a country where it can whistle at environmental, social, labour and all other standards. If that's not the case, then the West is helping them import democracy through the war. And that's where this circle ends. Those who intimidate refugees and migrants are the most zealous supporters of the Nato Pact; those who demand an airtight closure are committed to lowering taxes and contributions to the benefit of capital; they oppose raising the minimum wage and ensuring the protection of labour rights and the rights of environmental standards. They therefore support policies that are in fact the main culprit for migration in other countries, where instead of working people, pensioners and young people are put on the side of capital and the protection of the wealthiest privileges, and for the poor, the position of the first with a finger is shown precisely to those which these policies force to flee. In Levi, therefore, we have always stressed that security does not endanger migration; it is threatened by right-wing populist policies, the promotion of hatred and the wrong policies that we have been witnessing to them all the time. And part of the blame also beareth the midst of politics: the middle which consenteth to this discourse of the right hand. Today, let's say we are not talking about migration anymore, but we are talking about illegal migrants; we are not talking about improving integration and speeding up procedures; we are talking about the abuse of the asylum system, the exploitation of social transfers and the strengthening of forced return. The middle of this rhetoric has agreed to policies that do not address migration issues but actually deepen them. The policy we have seen in recent years is the worst possible practice that cannot lead to anything good. Close borders, tightening asylum and foreign legislation, non-interference with integration, ghettoisation, criminalisation and pushing on the edge of society – we know where they're going. Despite the fact that poverty and social exclusion are the main generator of problems in society, such measures continue. Ask yourself how we get the most fertile soil for raising crime, violence or radicalisation – by taking a group of people, pushing them to the edge of society, isolateing them as much as possible, preventing them from accessing the educational system and the labour market and thus pushing them to the very bottom of society, to poverty and misery. Adding to the rise of fascism, hatred and the rise of right-wing propaganda on the one hand and continuing to promote and defuse armed conflicts and the economic and environmental exhaustion of the already poor countries on the other hand, we have received a recipe for disaster. But today, of course, we will not be dealing with these issues, the SDS will attack migrants and refugees with all the cannons, will continue with the winter discourse that illegal economic migrants exploiting the social system are criminals, lazy people eating bread to our citizens. The fact that there are about 600 people in total with international protection and a few more who just want to reach the target country does not move them. That there are no special derogations between perpetrators of crimes in relation to countries of origin, nor do they. Foreigners are still extremely few among all the perpetrators and suspects of crimes. If we look at data for 2019, for example among suspects of murder and murder, there are no foreigners. For example, the suspects of the crime of threats are Slovenian citizens of 458 and foreigners of 48. Without an event about a month ago, four kidnappings took place in 2019 – suspects are only Slovenian citizens. As a result, no extraordinary meeting was convened. Sexual assault on a minor: 60 cases, 57 Slovenian suspects, among foreigners 3. What extraordinary meeting on the subject of sexual violence against young people? Of course not. Domestic violence: 404 suspects Slovenian citizens, 33 cases where suspects are foreigners. Perhaps an extraordinary session on the subject of domestic violence? Of course not. In official statistics, however, one information is extremely interesting if we look at it from the other. The number of foreign and Slovenian suspects is closest to or equal to the number of infringements of workers' rights. Slovenian national is suspected 319 times, foreigners 328 so total 674 suspects, ratio of foreigners : Slovenians about half. An extraordinary session on the exploitation of workers? No, God forbid! For the applicant, this is most likely an expression of the free economic initiative and of the widest rights enjoyed by workers who make it impossible for the company to be more productive. Of course, these exploiters are not refugees and migrants who swim across Kolpo and try to cross the cutting wire. Among them are those whom you have sold to our companies and those whom you believe they need to reduce bureaucratic barriers to the establishment of a company and attract foreign investment. The duality of the candidates is so immeasurable. Both of them cut themselves into workers' rights, wages, pensions, and now refugees, migrants and all foreigners blame them for their miserable pensions, too low wages and poor social image in the country. Whose side you stand and whose interests you stand for, among other things, you have clearly demonstrated in the attempts of the Left to raise the minimum wage. Did you support him? No, no, no. Lifting the minimum wage above the poverty risk threshold and removing the supplements would be an excessive burden for employers, according to you. You would prefer to see that the wages are burdened with taxes and workers at the expense of a small raise in wages of quality and affordable health and social care. In the end, employers would benefit the most. Dear applicants, if you really care about citizens and citizens, stop dealing with refugees and migrants, start dealing with citizens and citizens or residents of this country. However, not only with 1%, which owns as much as 99% of the remaining ones together, but not with tax reliefs on public education, health and social welfare. If you want to prevent migration, stop blindly supporting the Pact and armed conflict. Start supporting measures to combat climate change rather than denying it. To prevent crime, support solutions for effective integration, speed up procedures and early access of refugees and migrants to education, social protection and in particular the labour market. But, as we said at the outset, the whole thing is really just a smoke screen, a curtain that you pick up by misinterpreting freedom of speech by spreading hatred and scaring people. Where that leads, we could see it last week. Your constant scolding against everything that stands in your way to such a desirable takeover of power has produced the firstfruits. For hatred gives birth to hatred. Once it has been received by a judge, tomorrow it will be possible for someone else. And that's what you're responsible for. Apparently, some comparison with Goebbels years ago wasn't like that. We will oppose this bill in the Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u52	Good day to you all! The fundamental postulate of human security and security of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly national security. It is a matter of protection, protection and defence of our national interests and objectives. For the majority of citizens, according to various surveys, public opinion security on the scale of values is highest. So what's this all about? See, security is a basic prerequisite, a basic condition for an individual and a society to develop normally, to function normally and develop all its talents given to him. Security is clearly closely linked to migration: legal or illegal migration. Especially illegal migration. Since we are talking in particular about international protection today, it is essential that I first say that the international protection we have in the Slovenian legal order or the very legislation of asylum is very broad-minded, very open. In the previous term, we have talked a lot about this. And it is right, because the situation is not as clean as the representatives on the left say to talk about what asylum legislation we have in Slovenia. And it's also right that we're talking about this today. The situation with regard to illegal border crossings is not so simple that you could say that it is not a problem. Of course, this is not the problem as it was in 2015. But then we were just a corridor when from point A we took trains and buses to the Austrian border hundreds of thousands of people. Today, we have completely unsupervised border crossings, and we do not know how many people actually enter, we know only those who are then taken over by the police or prevent them from moving forward. A key issue is who is coming and how much Slovenia can do. In Nova Slovenija we agree that anyone who comes to Slovenia hungry, thirsty, bare, who really needs help and comes from a war zone, it is necessary to provide assistance. But still, the fundamental question is how much our country can do. How many people can we take care of? Can we take care of thousands of people, 5,000 people, or a million people? Believe that in Africa, in parts of Asia, there are many people, millions, tens of millions of people who would like to come to Europe. Can we take care of so many people? Let's ask. I don't think so, and for once we have to decide how many people who need help we can take care of. Where do these people come from today? So I'm rhetorically asking you. Is it possible for those who come from Morocco to receive international protection if they ask for it? A month ago, a colleague of mine traveled safely through Morocco. Or from any other country in North Africa or from Asia that comes mass to our borders and here ask for international protection. Let's ask ourselves, is he who travels so many and so many safe countries and asks for international protection in Slovenia – why? Are we that much better? Why are they asking us? Why do they not apply for international protection in Croatia, for example? Is it a nice jumpboard to travel through the Schengen area? Mr Minister, we need to talk here or we need to talk inside the government about how we also have problems exploiting our asylum process, or that people who come to Slovenia are exploiting the asylum process. Why is that? The first answer is that Slovenia is easier to travel within the Schengen area and within the Schengen area. But just because we have a problem on our southern border, Austria is closing our southern border, our northern border. I do not want to be in such a European Union where, to say the words, the free movement of capital and people is that I have to show every time I go to Austria my ID card. Why is that? Why doesn't Austria trust us? Because we're so successful on our southern border or because we're unsuccessful? In the past, you have said that this is Austria's internal policy and that it is only about gathering Sebastian Kurz's political points, and the Austrian people's parties, the freebies, and so on. But that's what's taking so long. This has been going on for years. And since that's not enough, we have joint patrols on the west border, on the border with Italy. Thus, we and the Italians have said together that we will now protect this western border so that migrants from Slovenia will not go illegally to Italy. I'd have done something else before so that we wouldn't come up from Italy because they have a bigger problem than we do. We have a problem that is not so big that it could not be solved, but we need to solve it if we are to ensure the full security of Slovenian citizens and, in particular, at the slopes of the southern border in the White landscape. People are bitter there, worst of all, people are afraid. It's not enough for the minister to say, "Close your apartments, close your windows so no one gets in the house." No, no, no. That's the wrong rhetoric. Your job is to make people feel safe and not afraid to live in their own country, in their own homes. It is crucial that Slovenia alone will not solve the problem of migrants, the migration crisis. I'm sure you don't. This is the task of the entire European Union, our allies, if you will. In doing so, the European Union has been very unsuccessful in the last five, six years and countries have been more or less left to themselves. Each country has tried to solve this problem on its own. Different international conventions when we are talking about international protection, and agreements also give refugees the right not to choose countries where they will apply for asylum, but to apply for it in the first safe country. Foreigners do not enter Slovenia according to data in order to apply for international protection, but mainly migrants entering from Croatia, i.e. from a safe country, should apply for asylum with their neighbours. However, we agree with the legislative proposals or with the proposals of this law in these key three points, that a foreigner wishing to enter the Republic of Slovenia must immediately express to the competent authority the purpose of the application and at the same time state the reasons for it, i.e. the application for international protection for asylum. The application must be lodged within three days of entry into Slovenia. However, the law in force only provides that it must request it as soon as possible. So someone can come to Slovenia under the current legislation, there is a month here and it can still be the shortest possible time. I think that those who intend to apply for asylum in Slovenia must do so immediately. As soon as he gets here, knocking on the door, czech, I need international protection, because I come from a war zone or for similar reasons, but this must be done immediately to express my clear purpose. Another argument, however, is crimes. Who do we want in Slovenia? I follow this criterion, and I am sure that whoever has a crime or there is a reasonable suspicion that a person in Slovenia has committed a crime in order to prevent such an application for international protection. It's not a crime. It's a crime. In my opinion, it is right that we have this arranged. And we also agree in New Slovenia with this part of the amendment of the legislation, where it is argued that the application is inadmissible and rejected if the applicant has previously committed a crime in Slovenia and has been arrested in connection with this crime or if another EU Member State has made a legal decision to expel him. I think these are well-intentioned proposals, and it is right that we have them in our asylum legislation. For I stress that if we look at the other members of the European Union, our asylum legislation is very broad-minded. In particular, I would like to stress one more thing that we have already discussed in the previous term, namely the circle of persons who have the right to join a family. This is the European Directive itself, which requires Member States to recognise the right to family reunification only to the spouse and to the minor children of a foreigner. Now, watch out! And our law on foreigners recognizes this to a much wider range of people. While other members of the European Union are exacerbating the conditions for family reunification, because they have a serious problem with this, our country has still not taken this step despite attempts in the previous mandate. The point is that this right would only allow the closest family members. The broadness we have in our legislation also means more resources to the burden of the state budget, which must also allow such persons other rights, such as health care, social protection, education and employment. As regards all these rights, these foreigners are equal to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Minister, something will have to be done in this area if you do not want us to have an even bigger problem in the coming years than we have today. Finally, I stress that Slovenia, together with our partners in the European Union, must strive to make and solve problems at the very source, in the war zones, in the crisis, in the hunger, in the end. Europe cannot take care of all the people who want to come to the European Union. We don't have enough resources, there's not enough chance we can do this. But we can do much more than we have done in the last ten years to put an end to the crisis at its source and allow these people not to leave their homes, but to remain in their countries. Who leaves these African countries, the case of Nigeria? According to studies in Nigeria, 30% of people in Nigeria want to leave their home and go to Europe. But the Nigerians are over 150 million. 30% of them want to leave their homes immediately. Can we take care of these people? There's something we can do, but we can't do it all, and I want us to take care of them. Can we help them there? But I'm saying we can help them out there so we can have these options. For example – China invests around €90 billion in Africa, the United States invests in Africa's development, infrastructure and so on around €70.80 billion. How do our European mechanisms work in this area? They're fighting a little. This component is important. If we want to solve problems, we have to solve them at the very source, not at the borders here. Or it's too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Alenka Bratušek Group will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman. Fellow Members and Members, distinguished guests on the balcony! Today, at the request of the SDS Group, we are considering a proposal for a law regulating international protection. Exactly the same proposal was discussed in the general debate last year just before the end of the previous government's mandate. At first reading, the Law did not receive sufficient support. The draft law strengthens the conditions for the recognition of international protection and sets a three-day period within which a foreigner must express his intention to apply for asylum. At the same time, the draft law also interferes with the definition of the term “criminal act”. First of all, it should be stressed that the regulation of international protection in Slovenia is based on a common European asylum policy. The provisions of the Law on International Protection are largely the result of the transposition of the provisions of the European Regulations and Directives. We are, as a Member State of the European Union, obliged to comply with the rules. Such arbitrary solutions, such as those before us today, are not appropriate and constitute a violation of European Union law. The Convention on the Status of Refugees at the Principal Level sets out the grounds for exclusion from refugee status and is further defined by the Council Directive. The proposal therefore spells out the aggravation of these reasons in contravention of European legal acts. In its opinion, however, the Government also pointed out that the proposed amendments affect the right to international protection. In the SAB Group, we are aware that asylum legislation at European level is incomplete and contains quite a few gaps, but this must first be regulated at European Union level and then within the framework of national legislation. I stress, however, that migration policy is a challenge for the international community and not just a problem for one country. Only on the basis of harmonised Member States' migration policies can we expect adequate achievements in this area. At the same time, fundamental human rights and freedoms, as well as democratic standards, must be respected, both at national and EU level. It is, of course, and must remain a priority for us to maintain the security of our country and of our citizens, but on the other hand it is our duty not to turn our backs on people in distress. This duty stems from both the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia and the fact that Slovenia is a member of a number of international organisations that define and promote solidarity, burden sharing and mutual support. In doing so, Europe must protect its external borders and address the problem of refugees and migrants of origin and also address the causes of poverty. This can also be followed by Slovenian companies with economic and infrastructure experience in these countries from the time of the former common country and the time of non-grading. Only certain archives on built infrastructure will need to be regulated. The Ministry of the Interior has recently repeatedly stressed that the Slovenian police are in control of migration and the situation at the border. They also ensured that they had a strategy in place to address the deterioration of the situation. At the moment, we do not see the need to amend the Law on International Protection. In the SAB Group, we will not express our support for the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u56	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Emphasis on the conditions for the recognition of international protection is the essence of the bill we are considering. Following the proposed change in Slovenia for international protection, those who enter the country through another safe country could not apply. It shall be established that the application is inadmissible if the applicant has entered Slovenia from an EU Member State or from another safe third country. It is proposed to shorten procedures or deadlines. Foreigners should apply for asylum within three days of entering Slovenia. It shall be supplemented by a provision determining when the application is inadmissible and when the application is rejected. It interferes with the definition of the offence and lays down more stringent conditions for sanctioning serious violations of the home order in an asylum home. The decisive dilemma that confronts us is whether it is in such a form a disproportionate intervention into the right to international protection. As a signatory to the Geneva Convention and a member of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to provide international protection under certain conditions to those individuals who apply for it. At the earliest possible time when a foreigner enters the Republic of Slovenia with any national authority or local authority, the foreigner must express his intention to submit an application for international protection. A procedure followed by the police to identify him and the way he came to the Republic of Slovenia and to hand him over to the competent asylum home where the foreigner submits an application for international protection. It shall also be duly informed of the procedure and rights in the language it understands before receiving an application for international protection. It is worth noting that a common European asylum system has been established in the field of international protection since 1999. This system regulates and establishes common standards in the field of international protection in order to develop common concepts and criteria and to harmonise the interpretation and application of asylum law between the Member States of the European Union. National legislation in the field of asylum or international protection must be in line with European Union legislation, in particular with the three Directives and the three Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. Any changes should be made within the framework of the European legislative framework. The current law summarises the grounds for exclusion from refugee status under the Convention on the Status of Refugees and the Council of the European Union Directive. The timetable for lodging an asylum application is also in line with European legislation. The law provides that the applicant must express his intention to apply for international protection as soon as possible. The diversity of procedures and circumstances should be taken into account when reducing procedures. It's not all about the beggars. For example, the applicant needs to be informed about the procedure and must also have a medical examination. In such a way, when the applicant makes a request, it is not only up to him to make the request, but also to carry out the procedures to be provided by the competent authority prior to the formal adoption of the request. It is also specified in European Union legislation when an application can be considered inadmissible and for what reasons refugee status is terminated or withdrawn. The current law on international protection is therefore fully in line with the common European asylum system or with asylum legislation. Most of the solutions proposed are contrary to European Union legislation in the field of international protection, so in the Desus Group we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate or proposal for amendments to the law and in particular the area of international protection is an example of how Slovenia, with unconditional categorisation and fanatical adaptation to the European Union in advance, has given up its negotiating adjutants and others, so the European Union institutions have left room for all possible forms of blackmail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first shall have the floor of the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you. Look, it was very nice to hear so many words about humanity, about anti-deployment, about social justice, about understanding human beings. I support and accept all of this. Now I ask you - what is more disgusting, rude, inhuman form of decomposition, non-socialism, than that someone who has worked for the state of Slovenia for 40 years, for Slovenia, for living with 300, 400, 500 euros a month, or that young mothers without income this country for its existence devotes a few hundred euros a month, when someone comes there from Arabia with a new iPhone, with a few thousand Soroche euros on account or cash, some of them have also had 300 thousand euros of cash with them, and says that they want asylum, the state of Slovenia says, yes, great, choose a thousand 963 euros each month, we'll gladly spend it, it's no problem, here you can, we'll finance one more government to help you, that you'll delay procedures, that you'll be more Slovene taxpayers every month, we'll be spending it'll be no problem, that you'll be able to subjugate one that Slovenia, we'll be doing it, we'll be doing it, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be in Slovenia, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it again, we'll be doing it Isn't that a problem?Oh, my God! What is a more repugnant form of decomposition, inhumane, false humanitarianism than this? That's what I'm asking you. If you were dreaming when you said those opening words, it would be time for you to wake up. But if you are awake, on behalf of citizens and citizens, I urge you to take off those red robes and take a little look around you, because things have changed. What we are proposing today is only a measure that would make it difficult to abuse asylum, which would allow for a more effective fight against the abuse of asylum. We're talking about the abuse of asylum, the abuse of asylum, the abuse of asylum as such. That's what this novel is about. Because these abuses, ladies and gentlemen, abuses, Slovenian taxpayers are so terribly expensive to pay. That is why there is no money for young mothers, not for schools, not for health care, not for pensioners, not for everything else that the state should provide its citizens and citizens, that is, a person worth living, adequate health, adequate well-being. Speaking of abuse — do you know what country you live in? In a country where a group of migrants comes in, they steal a car, they run into it. Or another group that kicks one cop on the ground, or a third group that's caught directly in a single building, into the property of a citizen when the police come, say, "Yes, and we want asylum." “Yeah, do you want asylum? Please, just get in the car, we will take you to Ljubljana." Ladies and gentlemen, this is called asylum abuse. And you live in a country like this. These are real things that have already happened every day. Some are famous, I've talked about those who have been publicly presented, even in the media, some are less known, I can say something else. That is why we need to wake up because things have changed in our neighborhood. All the neighbours have already sharpened their asylum laws. All neighbours, including France, by the way, which is the promised land, and that is essential. It is about us adapting our legislation to them, because otherwise we become a target country. Slovenia, however, is small, unable to bear that burden. Many of you have spoken, say, someone has even said hatred for minorities. Ladies and gentlemen, who is the minority? At this point, according to official intelligence data, 20 million illegal migrants are moving towards Europe. And another 300 million predicts that they will be on their way in a short time. More than that, he wants them there. In this crowd, 2 million Slovenes and Slovenians represent a minority. So much so that you'll even use the terms correctly. The point is that this minority, which we represent ourselves — and perhaps we do not want to be a minority in our own country — must also be adequately protected. It's nothing but respect for the rules of law. If the rule of law were respected, the rule of law in its entirety, covering international obligations and domestic regulations, domestic laws, the constitution, then none of what happened could have happened at all. Angela Merkel herself said they were suspending the Dublin Agreement. This is what the European institutions have just taken to heart. Today, however, you all refer to a common EU policy on asylum in the field of prevention of illegal migration and so on. You've all talked about it. I'd say something, but I think that would be too bad. Ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about a common European policy, perhaps we should revive that old rule that there was a custom in Slovenia that launderers were washed their mouths. What did you do last week? You unilaterally removed Turkey from the list of safe countries of origin, which is totally contrary to the common European policy on asylum, and thus went directly to undermine the only functioning agreement between the European Union and Turkey. That's what you did! So much for your reference to the common European policy on the prevention of illegal migration and the right to asylum. You went directly to undermine! It is even worse that Slovenia is a member of the Schengen family, and believe that this will also have consequences for the further expulsion of Slovenia from the Schengen area. How's this gonna work now? What does the concept of a safe country of origin mean? If a country is declared a safe country of origin, illegal migrants may return there, in that direction, without a problem. In doing so, I point out that everyone is still being treated individually. If someone can actually prove that his existence, human integrity, or whole life is at risk, then this concept is not applied to him at all. That's what you say, what you've done, you've done consciously without need. This means nothing to the protection of human rights. The concept of a safe country of origin is essential to facilitate the procedure. If someone obviously does not meet the conditions, if he comes from a safe country of origin, he can return immediately without a problem. If that is not the case – and you have done so in Turkey – now the whole process will have to be carried out for everyone. And, of course, it costs an awful lot. In fact, you have allowed further mass abuse of the asylum process in Slovenia. Then we wonder if Slovenia is becoming a promised country in the eyes of illegal migrants. And when this procedure runs out, what happens? The procedure shall apply to the whole Schengen area. Those who are in this process know this, and they thoroughly abuse it. The numbers are very eloquent. And you have now added oil to the fire, consciously, to satisfy those in NGOs that have demanded this since 2016. No reason at all, I'll say it again. Because if a person is effectively threatened with human rights, if he is existentially threatened, if his integrity is compromised, this concept does not apply to him at all. It's just about preventing mass abuse of asylum arrangements and nothing else. But you made it possible. So much for your reference to the common EU asylum policy. And what will be the result? As this will also affect all other countries within the Schengen area, this will continue to push Slovenia out of the Schengen area. And the damage you're doing is irreparable. When I said it would be time for you to wake up. A representative of the government coalition says we are dealing with several thousand illegal migrants crossing the Slovenian border at the annual level. If the clock is two years behind, then it's still too low, but let's just say it's around drinking water. This year's final assessment, published a few days ago by Germany to come to Germany, I quote, "after 500 illegal migrants and more per day, at least two thirds of them arrive on the Balkan route". It's 350 a day. So much for our control of the situation on the southern border and what is the real situation. Of course, they are also intercepted by quite a few Slovenian police and military officers together. And how many are they intercepting? Yeah, if you look at the daily data like this, somewhere between 50 and 100 a day right now. Is that a few grand a year? Someone has a flower math if I'm very diplomatic. However, blinding the face of the problem is certainly no help before the reality of the problem. It will be necessary to open your eyes and actually face the problem. You said we could only do something that would be even more beneficial than existing legislation. This is a quote from one of the representatives of the government coalition who spoke earlier. Of course that's not true. There is a lot of manoeuvre within European regulations, and each country still has the opportunity to do so in its own way. And all the countries did. That's why I told you to look around. Look what Austria did, what Italy did, and so on. All of them have tightened asylum laws, and they have made a significant difference in what is our weak spot when we do not even get involved right now because it is another law – it is a question of association. Because our formulation in Slovenia is so extensive that even you can be brought along if you really want to. When we talk about the abuse of asylum arrangements, and we talk about it, it is, of course, essential that the process be facilitated and accelerated. It's not about not treating anyone individually. Everyone has the right to individual treatment. Only if it is obvious at the first moment that he is either or is caught in a crime have I already described some cases, or that it is a manifest abuse of an asylum process or the right to asylum, then it is necessary to address such a person, thank him kindly and send him where he came from. Without wasting money and wasting time. Rather, let this money be devoted to young Slovenian mothers, it will be used much more wisely. You say that these are people -- and this was universal at all -- who are willing to help Europe with their work. It's a literal quote from a masterpiece that worked for someone from the government coalition. Now I'm asking you, how many of those millions of illegal migrants who have come in a big wave are working now. Official figures say a few tens of thousands, a few percent. It's off the record. Because all the companies that gave final reports, when they went to some quotas, took forcefully how they would now use these people as a workforce, ended up with empty deadlines. There's not one left. This is the experience of audioia, BMW, I don't know, all the other big companies. It's on the Internet as much as you want. Of course, they're not people who come here to work. Those who come legally, these are legal migrations, and this is something else entirely. But those who come here come here because of social parasitism. This is the only real political term that describes the actual situation. It's social parasitism. You come to the country, you want asylum. There's someone there, I don't know, from Morocco or Algeria. Is there a war? No, no, no, no, no! They only opened the prisons, and they sent them to Europe if you don't know it, by the way, among others. And these people have no intention of working. Some even come with very different intentions and also publicly say that they want to spread in Europe, that they want to promote radical Islam and so on, and even worse. One of them was referring to Lebanon. Yeah, you just need to know that the Lebanese are very good and very smart people. When the then Prime Minister of Great Britain visited Lebanon, he was told, in a famous warning, “What are you doing in Europe to accept these coffins of illegal migrants. Do you know that among them there are at least 2% of people who are radicalised and already associated with either ISIS or Al-Qaida.” And that's enough to poison everything else. Because then they push you forward, they radicalize the others. And when they left Lebanon, they said, "Don't do this!" Such were the records of their secret services. The Lebanese are the right people and wanted to warn the Europeans. When I said that it was social parasitism in combination with the abuse of the asylum process against which this novel of ours is directed, it is also necessary to know that there is a mass phenomenon, that those who, as poor refugees, came from individual countries from the Middle East or Africa, then back home nice on vacation, at the expense of the taxpayers of the country, who were easily accepted. It's mass. The heavy billions of euros are about these things. Look at the numbers, look at the Internet, it's all well documented and you'll see that social parasitism combined with the abuse of the asylum system is currently one of the greatest burdens, and this burden due to human stupidity and irresponsibility – such as you have shown in the coalition and the government by removing Turkey from the list of safe countries of origin, and thus needlessly burdened additional Slovenian taxpayers. One said that it was a permanent SDS agenda to talk about illegal migration. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a European agenda. In case you haven't noticed, in all European countries, when European elections were now, it was a central topic. Whoever said it wouldn't be, I'd have a very funny comment about it, and I'd keep it to myself. It is only a topic that decides which, at this moment, forms Europe, of course, too, because another such mandate as Europe has lived through in the last five years will no longer survive Europe. And to talk about how no country can do it on its own, I will say once again, but don't mess around, you say that you have unilaterally gone to break the agreement between the EU and Turkey, which was based on the assumption, on the ground, essentially, if you want Turkey to be a safe country of origin and to return to that direction as a refugee. The whole mechanism was set up on this. You're going to break it up. As a member of the EU and as a member of the Schengen. But you've got your mouth full, and I don't know what to do. First, sweep ahead of your threshold, correct this indescribable nonsense that you have done, because it will be extremely harmful and will also have external political consequences, further weaken the international position of Slovenia. Slovenia will therefore have an appropriate experience of epilogue in any other matter. This puts you at risk in addition to the chaos on the southern border of our membership in the Schengen. Because something has to be done, because it is necessary to prevent all these abuses, which are nothing new, because this has already been warned by Minister Györkös in the previous government, the law before you needs to be passed. If any of the solutions are such that you feel that it should be changed or improved, gladly, let us just do so. Because otherwise, Slovenia is now becoming in the eyes of people because of the two wrong signals given by the Government – accession to the Marrakesh Global Agreement, unlike all northern neighbours, and, on the other hand, with Turkey withdrawing from the list of safe countries of origin – the promised land for illegal migrants, which we are all paying in the end. Money will run out for that, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, once again, this is the most falsely humanitarian, rude form of spending taxpayers' money that is possible. This money should be earmarked for young Slovenian mothers, for schools, for children's education, for health care, for pensioners. They build a community, not those who come here looking only for benefits, but here the numbers are unforgivable and whoever claims otherwise, believe me, we can talk about these numbers for a very long time. Otherwise, the abuse of asylum is something that the previous government has been talking about, which this government is talking about, you all know it exists. It is only that this must be tackled as successfully as possible and that it must also be coordinated with the neighbours in individual legal solutions. And that's what this proposal is about. And there will have to be another proposal for other legislation. Let's also say changes to the Foreigners Act. We'll get there.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Lidija Divac Mirnik, prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice to meet you, fellows. Actually, I don't want to go into a debate with Mr Grims, not in such a cynical way, either, because I think it's completely infertile. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I do not dream in the National Assembly, but in full consciousness I say that other colleagues do not dream in the National Assembly. However, I can agree with matters or perhaps also with what matters he has been talking about. I can also agree that there will be some abuse of asylum policy. And I absolutely agree with him. But we can't throw everything in the same basket and we can't generalize everything on average. I don't think that's acceptable. With the support of this proposal, as has already been heard, we would be violating European legislation, a common asylum policy, and we would also be violating the Convention on the Status of Refugees. But it's not in my best interests. Even at this point, there is no reason for the situation to become so acute that the situation is manageable. That's what the Minister says, and I believe him. But I allow the possibility that someone doesn't believe him. But then that's the problem with someone who doesn't believe him, because I'm sure our minister is telling the truth. At the time of Minister Györköseve, which was today limited, they were, but indeed they were completely but indeed completely different circumstances. That's why I wouldn't confuse them with the circumstances today. We have also heard many flat-rate statements, including the fact that illegal migrants have more rights than others to be with them than I do. Since this is very flat-rately said, of course people think that it is true that some illegal migrant in Slovenia receives a thousand euros a month, which is not true of course. But let's let it stop. We have also heard that Austria has closed its borders. He's holding it to some extent because in Austria, when a man crosses the border, there's a police officer sitting on the border. Like I did it last week. That cop didn't even look at us, less to investigate us or control us. So these grades are very flat. Perhaps the people who say so have not crossed the border with Austria for some time. I must say in this debate that on Monday at a meeting of the city council, which I am a member of, we also had a point of Information on security events in the Maribor area. Why am I saying this? Because there, Mr. Policeman, who presented these things to us, I specifically asked the following questions: Do we have problems with illegal migrants in Maribor? The answer was that we do not have them and that they do not detect this in Maribor and the surrounding area. Their answer was also that Maribor is a safe city. I warn you this because to scare people by the fact that all people, that all foreigners coming to Slovenia, are lazy, terrorists, they steal, they rape, and I don't know what else, is actually not the right way. Of course, they're probably like that. However, – now I will use a term that I should not basically use, so I will put it under the terms – among the “pure” Slovenians are also such. Generally speaking, it is not right to accuse people because fear is the only thing that arouses fear, and because it promotes feelings in people that are not the most positive. I would suggest that all those who want to sow this fear among people look to Slovenia – it is beautiful, it is clean, drinking water flows from our tentacles, we have no war, we are free, we can choose our leaders, we can go to elections, we can move freely around the country, we can leave our country and we can go back free. Let us take a positive look at all these things, because all of this is not self-evident and has not been given just that. Some have also lost their lives for this. Finally, let me say that I will not support the evergreen agenda, which sows fear and hatred among people, because I would like these people living in Slovenia to be encouraged primarily in order to grow up in person. And there's a lot of people who should. As I say, I will not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you. First, I will say that I deeply agree with the fact that Slovenia is beautiful, that it was worth fighting for its independence, that I myself carried a weapon in the war for Slovenia all the time, and, unfortunately, some have actually paid the highest price for it. And that wasn't given to us. If it's our job, it's our job to hand it over to our children. That is why, ma'am, I invite you to listen to my words when I say it is time for you to look around, and I invite you to take a walk together in the White landscape, along the Illyrian bistro area, down by Kolpa, and maybe some end of Slovenia. We will also invite representatives of the civil initiative to look at all the landfills that are now being built there, and at the various supply centres that have been made by those who care about illegal migration, what they have done with certain properties and everything else that is actually happening. If you close your eyes before that, nothing helps, it happens on a daily basis. On a daily basis there are car thefts, burglaries, burglaries, arsons, everything that's lived has already happened. Some things were public talk, some were not, and everything was happening. And that must be done. This is due to abuse, not because some people need it. Those who really need the right to asylum can always get it. This is due to the massive abuse of asylum procedures and the right to asylum. And that's wrong. For this reason, the amendment of legislation should give a clear signal that we want to end this, that the legal order that will apply to all should be applied to everyone in the same way. This is the way money is saved, and then it must be earmarked for those who need it in Slovenia. I have counted them many times, I can repeat them – for all those who live with too low pensions, for young mothers, for young families, for employment, for children's education, for quality health care, this is what needs to be done. And when you have expressed your doubts about how much it costs – ma'am, this is an official finding by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. None of us made that up. This is an official finding by the Court of Auditors that every illegal migrant or azilante costs a total of over EUR 1 000 per month to Slovenian taxpayers. And by the way, some of the costs, such as costs, of financing NGOs for this purpose, are not even covered in this sum. So the actual costs are even higher. But that's the official number, so we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The fact is that Slovenia has problems with migration. This is witnessed by our media, as much as they want, and I also stress it, and we witness a daily walk around the places where there is actually the largest number of illegal arrivals. I can mention the Church, the Illyrian Bistrica, and not least the Municipality of Loška Valley. The mayor warned that in the Municipality of Loška Dolina there are illegal crossings, that there is an extremely large amount of garbage in the forest, and then they drive it away at the expense of municipal budgets, it is said at the expense of the citizens, because they are likely to raise the prices of municipal services as soon as possible, so that they can cover the removal, because the state simply does not have the hearing to instigate it in this way. I just got a home visit today, and they said that in the Los Valley, there was one really poor, poor, out of the rain a very strong migrant was walking, and he didn't know where he was going, which way he was going. It is said that the government does not control the borders, that you do not know where and how many people come across the border. The fact is, they're looking for food and they're looking for money to break into the labor barracks, where they have tools built, and they're probably looking for money and food. All the food was scattered where you were the workers who were on the construction site cooking themselves. Very nice speech from your mouth, how poor they are, but I must say that this is a simple Pharisees to me. They're all poor, just our kids, parents aren't poor. I'm already talking about the next item on the agenda. We can take care of everything, ours, and those who may have a slightly different view of education, I think they are enemies of the first kind. The fact is that abuse requires a change in asylum legislation. Migrants arriving in our country come from countries where, for example, one of the Arab countries, I can say Qatar, which has half a million inhabitants, the Qataris, and a million 700 people working for them: India, Malaysia, from all other countries. But what's interesting is they don't have any family reunification laws there, no family reunification rights. One taxi driver said that he had been driving a cab in Qatar for ten years, and relatives were not allowed to visit him. And these people come to us with the customs they have there, and they want to live with us. It seems to you that they do bring added value because they are raised in a system that does not actually leave rights to women. Is this an added value for our Slovenia? It's obvious, because if it wasn't, we'd probably take care of our own nation first. I'd just like to ask, who's going to record this man walking down the Los Valley yesterday? Who's gonna put him in asylum law? Where is this man now with a sleeping bag on his shoulder? There's something else I want to know. Why is it that when migrants get exactly at certain places, clothes to change when they take off when they leave their backpacks, with these backpacks, also the leashes for the dog? I'd like an answer. Why are there leashes for the dog? And of course, I'd like to know where the man who was in the Los Valley yesterday is today. If we have a system that works, then we know that this man is in Slovenia. I want an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'm actually wondering, colleagues and colleagues, especially here is a coalition: in fact, who are you representing in the National Assembly? We were all elected together on the basis of decisions made by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, I am listening here to your opposition to tightening asylum legislation in order to adapt it to the situation in Slovenia. You're talking about an evergreen darkness. Whether you really do not realize or look away or even support that things are happening in Slovenia that indicate that we are no longer a safe country. The answer to being locked tells you in itself that something is wrong in the country. He tells you something's very wrong. And it's wrong. Before that, colleague Lydia pointed out that they had no problems in Maribor. Nice. I'm happy for the Mariborians and the Mariborians that they don't have any problems. But now she's not in the hall, and I politely invite her to come with me to Dolenjska, and she'll see what's going on down there. Their congregation council addressed this issue and found that they had no problems. You know, another city council in New Town has adopted binding decisions – I hope the ministry will actually implement them – to demand effective protection of the state border. Several conclusions were adopted on this subject. Are people who come from Dolenjska less valuable than people who live in Maribor? These are also our citizens. And these citizens tell us that they can no longer live a normal life. I wonder what they would do if, for example, the Ljubljanaers could no longer go to Šmarno go where they go with their families, where youth, adults, children go. People from Dolenjska can no longer go to such points because they meet groups of illegal migrants, encounter various wastes, and do not know whether things are safe or are also harmful to health. Every day, look, I'm there a lot, every day, when they go to their living quarters, they're not sure what they'll find. Either they'll find what they left her, or they'll find things destroyed. And you're still saying we're talking about winter darkness. So we're talking about the safety of our citizens, this should be our agenda for the day! If our citizens are at risk, something has to be done. And what we are proposing in the law today is, in fact, nothing else or is very similar to what the Minister of Home Affairs of the previous term, Mrs Györkös, at that time, has also advocated, but the coalition has rejected it. Today, on the side of the party where this minister came from, the client has already left, and today she is not in the hall, indeed, we hear that we sow some kind of hatred. But she herself has consistently used hate speech towards even the neighbouring country and other countries, which, after all, have democratic order and vote their own leaders and leaders. I do not understand the problem and the constant need for some to speak about the country of Hungary, where people have chosen their own leadership. But you can't talk about your country, but you can't talk about the problems that are in this country. Of course, because you are afraid of this because it is obviously in the interest of someone that these people come to Slovenia and that they are allowed to live a completely pleasant life and that our culture is more adapted to theirs. For the asylum law, as it is, shows that we must do more than those who come. That's insane. See how things are going on today or literally in the Ministry of the Interior's ridicule. You can imagine that the asylum boys came to the training center of Gotenica and drilled away the bikes literally to a police car. Look, that's a joke to you, too, Minister. But you're hiding this, you couldn't read it in public, respected citizens and citizens. We're going so far! The training center, which is under control, is where the migrants came in and pulled the screws on the car. They're really people who just want help. On the other hand, the minister brings himself to the White Land, tells people that everything is under control, and on the same day, a big farmer, including an internationally established one, is taken away by a van. The police can only get this van back when they use a certain coercive measure. Now I ask you, Minister, tell me the exact address, with all the information that citizens can put out their positions for all the things that are happening to them in relation to migrants: intrusions, destruction of walls, destruction of apartments, burglaries, destruction of cars. Today, please tell us out loud how you will repay these costs to the citizens. However, if you think that citizens and citizens will pay because you do not want to take certain measures in this country, then you are wrong. And that's what the terrain tells you. They will no longer tolerate it, not because they fear for their property, which they have created for many years, because they fear for their families. And I'm telling you from experience, I'm telling you from the facts, based on the testimony of the people. I talk to them every day in Dolenjska. That's terrible what's going on out there. There's something else I want to know. Given that the National Assembly, for example, did not want, the coalition, only the coalition did not want to support the law on establishing a minimum disability pension and people are getting less funding than those in the Employment Service, I am interested in the number. The last issue on the needs of immigrants is 2016. This is the number that came after the year when this largest migration flow through Slovenia. Today, your honor, you are obliged to give us a number from all areas of how much this matter costs us. 33 million for our people who worked, respected, and lost their health anyway, you couldn't find it. Today, as information of a public character, I want to know how much this cost us all. For me, the cost is also the work of police officers, their overtime, for me, the cost of asylum homes, for me is the cost of all those who deal with it, and not least, respected, including those who say they assimilate and are already adapting to our culture, even though I don't know how much money this is all about. And then I'll see who's actually first-class in this country and who's second-class. I won't sell much further. But I want a minister of yours to send the bills to, uh, the state to take care of Masha Kociper, calm down! [[…]] It's hard for me to listen here. It means where people can send the bills and how much it costs us. It's not about what happens here anymore, it's about what happens to someone, but it's about what happens to them all day. Since she's challenged me, yes, Your Honor Masha Kociper, it won't be enough for you to walk around Orehovica at various events, come with me today, and I'll take you and you'll see what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u68	I would ask, I know that it is difficult to intervene in the debates of individual Members, but here we have quite a few of us declared for discussion and the honourable Member has in her debate three or four times repeated the same thing, the same request, the same request, with the same words. Please, President, we have a lot to discuss, and we are also waiting for the government's answers if they can try to gather their thoughts by saying it again, perhaps again, but not four times in a row.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u69	Procedurally. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much that Members, who are always self-advertising as a lawyer of law, say that the Rules of Procedure stipulate that the Group of Members has its own time. In this context, Members can discuss and say what they think. Of course, sometimes it's hard to understand those who put a big bullet in a little bullet and don't understand a few things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u71	Procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u72	I would ask, Madam President, that we also be protected by Members from regrets, because some of the concepts of bullets have not yet been understood. And a small, large bullet means a large crowd, and a small crowd. Like you, for example, or your client, Mrs. Gibert. Lots of words, lots of voices sometimes, and so few chances of doing anything. And a lot of your words, a lot of theatricality, and so little smart as you say.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u74	That's the concept of two bullets.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a motion for procedural, please say something. Not to use the rules of procedure for yours, I'll say, concerns. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, you have the floor. Yeah, yeah, it's your turn. He's been through a lot of changes on this list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President. I think you want to give me procedural because I didn't ask for it, not for the debate. The interpretation of the bullets is different. We can also see Masha Kociper as a candidate for an MP who was not elected to the National Assembly. And a small bullet, Masha Kociper, who then sucked into this national assembly through the back door and is today a substitute Member, not an elected Member. However, that must be said. Also, the fact that the debate is going so fast that it will probably remain for more than two and a half hours at the end proves that the coalition Members do not care about this subject, that they do not care what happens to our citizens and citizens, as I have already said in my position, about this migrant Arab coalition of our citizens and citizens of secondary classes, that every foreigner who illegally invades our borders and knows what origin it is, or we know where it comes from, is sanctioned. If anyone else illegally crosses the border, he is sanctioned under the law in force in Slovenia. If those who come from the Middle East and North Africa cross the illegal border are not sanctioned by law as others, but are rewarded by the fact that every month the Republic of Slovenia deducts more than a thousand 900 euros for its stay and accommodation, it is rewarded by the fact that, after unjustifiably asking for international protection, it is free to walk here, it goes to another country, it is rewarded by the fact that they can do what they want here, commit crimes, commit crimes, and nothing to anyone, because they are protected by more than nomadic bears, and those 200 who will now have to leave. But the question Anja Bah Žibert posed is in place. Whom should citizens and citizens address who are harmed by these illegal migrants? I would suggest that the accounts be sent to the minister, to the police director and to those Members and Members who are so advocated here, how poor refugees are needed. If so, dear colleagues and colleagues, let those who have been taken home raise their hand. Let's give them, what do I know, 500 up in Ljutomer, and Mr Jurša will greet them and accept them. Because they are here to defend them, let us put them up in his congregation. Give a representative [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I predict how you'll vote. On the basis of your vote, I assume you support the arrival of illegal mitrangs. Then take them up to Lutomer, but I don't know if your voters will be happy. True, there are very few. That's what needs to be said. As far as these articles are concerned, these are also some of the articles we are [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, Masha Kociper says she can get a damage account. She'll give the lady the address. These are the articles already proposed by the Minister of the Interior of the Cerara Government. The consensus, adopted at the time, showed the possibility that this amendment would be adopted. But since some Members want these illegal migrants to come to Slovenia, even within the Modern Centre Party, they have rejected this amendment. If we had taken this matter up at the time, we would not be dealing with this today and would have returned everything after the ongoing procedure, with no cost, and in particular no one would have abused these procedures. Mr Minister, what have you done so far to sanction all NGOs that advise migrants on how to get to Slovenia, what are the procedures for us, how to apply for international protection, what their rights are, how they are given paths and other cases in Bosnia? Why don't you take action, why are you constantly moving around, telling us how Slovenia is a safe country? If Slovenia were truly a safe country, I agree that it is among the safer, not that it is safe, because no country is safe, there is crime everywhere, but it depends on who is committing and whether it could be prevented. And in this case, when applicants for international protection come from safe countries to us, most of the time through Croatia, virtually everyone could prevent this. In what way? In such a way as to adopt a law that would prevent them from applying for international protection if they had already come from a safe country. Let them stay in Croatia because of me, let them take them wherever they want. But there's no right to stay here with someone who came from a safe country. He can come as a tourist, he can come along a legal route, through a visa, but someone can't cross five, six, seven safe countries and finally apply here for international protection. Because obviously the others are not returning them, and when we get them and want them back, they apply for asylum and then they need to be treated in accordance with legislation. This is a tool today that should not be considered, but that the police could not come from Austria and Hungary, because they do not want to go back, want to continue to stop them and send them back immediately. There would be no procedures, no additional costs, tens of millions of euros could be spent differently. Even for the salaries of the police and the paramedics, according to yours, for the better equipment of the police and the paramedics, according to yours, to improve the state of the police and elsewhere. Give this money to illegal migrants, rather to those for whom you are responsible, whose material status depends on you, Mr Minister, on your decisions and your policies. Today it is not only a law that can make Slovenia a safer country, it is also a law that can improve our public finances, it improves the position of those who will receive these few ten million euros, which we spend on those who illegally invade our borders, with a desire for social tourism, because that is the only thing. In most cases it is just to go to countries where NGOs inform them of how social benefits are, how social assistance is, how they can do nothing and live well. Germany has even higher social support, not to mention Scandinavian countries. This is why the Scandinavian state, Germany, Austria, aims. Because they know that we have a situation where we have a government that is more to migrants than to our own citizens, of course all those who apply for asylum and stay here, which means that they do not leave the country during the procedure, because they are allowed free passage, free movement, that they want to stay here then. There's no integration. I haven't heard from anyone here once before about how this thing is going, how you're successful, how you're not successful. But given what is happening elsewhere in Europe, that other third-generation immigrants have not been able to integrate into our society, then you will not be able to integrate these people either. And you, Minister, drive around the country with a car with security guards, the Belokrans don't have it. Residents, the citizens of Illyrian Bistrica don't have that. Then you say, Mr. Minister, you say, "Yes, but the citizens will have to get used to locking the doors." Who are you to tell people what they should do and what they should not do, which is not strictly stated in the law?Oh, my God! Who are you? How can a minister say, "Now lock the door because as a minister I am unable to establish some basic conditions to protect your property"? The people in the countryside were cohabitating, there was no crime, there were no problems, they didn't lock their doors. And now some minister tells them, "Yes, we have a situation like this, get used to locking the door." That's unworthy, Mr. Secretary. If you were to do your job in the right way, these people would still not have to lock their doors. I am waiting now for your statement or, strangely, that there was no longer a time when the Belokran was kidnapped, I expected that you would probably say, “Do not go to the vineyards or, go with them, that there are at least two or some watchdogs.” That's about how you react when something happens. Not to mention that you are not even informed of what we have seen on the Internal Affairs Committee many times. When one of the Members introduces you to some of the crimes committed by migrants, you first look at it, then you look at the Director of the Police, and it's not clear to her, she takes the phone, she goes out, she comes back in five minutes and tells you what happened, and that what the Members have warned was true. How is the communication going between you and the Director General of the Police? Although, if I have the right information, I hear he's already on the list for this job. [[…]] Look, Minister, smiles aren't enough. Give me something else to answer. A number of questions were asked. Not on the part of members of the coalition, because they obviously understand everything and obviously do not want to see any more abuse of procedure. In order to stop the abuse and damage to the interests of the Republic of Slovenia by non-governmental organisations that care that we receive these shipments of migrants daily, do nothing. You deal with those resolutions and laws as you obey your own citizens, how you will give the intelligence and security services the opportunity to spy on their own citizens, to invade their own homes without their presence, and do nothing to make people safer. The crime is everywhere, he's been, he's going to be. We agree here. We can still have such police, such laws, if anyone wants to commit a crime, he will do it – I am talking about the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But we have the opportunity to bring those asylum seekers that we are living in Ljubljana today, and what do I know, where else to put them down, and thus reduce the number of crimes. Someone who would illegally come across the border and be sent back immediately, this in Slovenia, in Ljubljana, anywhere, could not do so. And that's what this is about, Mr. Secretary. This law needs to be viewed from several perspectives, not just the bare letters and sentences, but also the consequences. And I don't see any negative consequences in this marriage. I see positive consequences for our citizens and citizens and for the country of the Republic of Slovenia. By objecting to such solutions, especially when you do not propose your own, I understand that someone is constantly opposed to something, but if he opposes, then let him say what he will do so that this problem will no longer be. We have a problem, namely illegal border crossings and abuses of international protection because they come from safe countries. We're alerting this problem. You're saying we keep criticizing you. But today we have a solution. This solution would solve this problem. You disagree, the voting machine of the coalition disagrees. Okay, there's still a problem. Now I'm interested in your solution to this problem. But she's not. Since you're going to be a minister for one year in September, you'd be bringing something to the table. There's no need to detect hot water. I have already given you many suggestions on how to protect the border, how to change the legislation we have proposed, but you constantly reject, do not take your measures, do not propose your actions. We all agree here that something has to be done to abuse asylum procedures, but you will obviously be here by the end of the term, whenever it will be. And that's it. Those who warn the police about what's going on, you tell them they're the police, that they're going to run for our list. I don't know how I could run on our list, because I probably wouldn't want to, but you accused him of being connected to us and running this paralytic or what I know. At the time, it was obvious to the principals, but you cannot treat people who say something about what is wrong and what they expect of you as their boss, in the way you did at the union meeting. As Minister, you're in favour of answering questions, telling what you're going to do and doing something. But you answer your questions a little, and you don't present your plans for the future, and you don't do anything. Ortnek, I warned you last time. There's still a fence in the state it was. Nothing's changed. And it's about supply reserves, where there's more fuel. The fence's been damaged, there's no interference with the building. It'll be a month, Minister, when I tell you this, or a month and a half. What did you do? You didn't do anything. You're not enough to fix one fence. I was on Saturday at Donatka Gora, so I drove in the direction of Rogaška Slatina, Rogatec. Do you know what this wire is like? Catastrophe. God forbid anyone comes in there because he doesn't even see her because she's all healed. Why don't you hold on to that? Is it such a problem to send some people to fix it? Spray with a boa effect or something like that. Is there a problem? Not that the first one to get to that limit and see what kind of cutting wire there is, all damaged, healed, like coming, I don't know where – because the series is popular, say, in Chernobyl. That's not how it works, Minister. We rightly expect you to tell us, given that you are rejecting our solution today, what your solution is, what your solution will be, and where the address will be, to send company damage accounts, by hunting families breaking into hunting cabins, by citizens and citizens who break into the walls, which are damaged by equipment stolen by cars, vans. Not to mention the other cases. I expect you to at least tell me if you don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper has the word and as the last to be prepared by Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. It is difficult for such speakers to comment on the debate and what to say calmly, because even if a person might consider a proposal in the law to be even positive, the whole discussion at such a low level is so negative that every time I ask myself whether to waste time and will and to discuss on the subject of the laws tabled by the SDS. The gentleman before me, who most means to him in life that he may be a Member, obviously not all of us have this opinion, and that he can stress his hate speech here, is difficult to match when he calls us a migrant-Arab coalition, accuses us of supporting migrants so that they want to pay their bills and so on. This debate is at a level where I find it difficult to debate. On the other hand, I am increasingly thinking about how important this topic is. For me personally, the two biggest challenges we face are climate change, not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe. That is why, irrespective of the specific law and the specific proposalr, I will, in particular, discuss this subject seriously. In this mandate, I am also a member of the Council of Europe, a subcommittee on migration and asylum policy, because I wanted to become more aware of this issue, which I had not been briefed on in detail before, that I would understand more about the challenges, including the legislative ones that await us in this area. The right populists, some of whom are here, may be extremely extreme, insulting in their statements, portraying migrants as black entertainers sowing disease, fear and death, slaughtering people on their way and so on. But they point to an important problem that citizens also see as important. If we do not listen to what the citizens say, moderate, medium and other parties will receive more and more support. On the other hand, there are also populist left-wing populists in this debate. Every time I listen to Mr. Vatovec, who says, "Yes, let's just give them what we accept and let's be assimilated, and let's give them that, and let's give them that help," and we're all racists and nationalists, who think differently, and I can't agree. There is no country, not a country like Slovenia, which can withstand this pressure of migrants we are experiencing now and which may continue in the future. She's not here! Therefore, such thinking is also dangerous and populist in the same way as others. It is the right way, seriously and rationally, to talk without undue emotion on this issue and to encourage debate at the level of the European Union. The more I get to know this, the more I am convinced that without serious action at European Union level, without serious debate at this level this problem cannot be resolved. It is not possible for each country to save him individually. The very problem of such resolution simply does not allow. Someone here asked why you've been dealing with Orban all the time. I won't. I understand, he is elected there by a democratic majority, he has 52% of the people who support him, but he has one of his own policies that governs him, and I'm against showing him with a raised hand and so on. I will only mention Hungary in this context as an example of a country that has specifically addressed this problem of migration and asylum policy by blocking itself with wire and highlighting the strictest possible measures to enter their country. This seems to some to be the best and best possible solution. I allow such an opinion to be expressed in a reasonable manner. I absolutely don't want it myself. It seems to me a step back in time, which passed not only 50 years ago, but several hundred years ago, when small states were shut down, each with its own fortress, which was then defended by the fort, the stones threw from it, and the hot oil poured so forward. I do not imagine countries in the European Union, where now every country with an impenetrable wire will be fenced and we will have a wire on the country's wire to fight these migrants, including the illegal ones coming up. What do I think part of the problem is? Part of the problem is – and I can absolutely agree here with those who can say something reasonable – in the existing asylum legislation that the European Union has. I believe that this legislation has not been made for the situations we have been facing in recent years. It was made for circumstances when such things were much less when a few hundred people came a year to Europe, after most of the war zones, and for those, thank God, it is necessary to take care of them. If they run from war, if they run from persecution, they must be accepted. If they cannot return, they must be helped to assimilate. But in principle, we used to talk about small numbers that a European Union, an institution or organisation could easily use, even if we used the principle of solidarity a little bit more. Now I think the situation is quite different. In addition to those who do flee from war, this is exactly what the proponents have to say, many also flee from poverty. These are migrants, Mr Jan Mahnic has appointed them to go to social tourism, we are also talking at this level, these are migrants who are not perhaps fleeing war and persecution, but are fleeing or going to a better life. Can we understand them? Yes, you can. Everyone probably wants a better life for himself and his family, even if he sees on his portable phone how and how they live 300 miles [300 km] higher. In all comfort, in peace, in a clean environment, with schools, jobs, etc. If you see it, that's what you want, of course. Can we accept all of this, taking all these millions of terrible Africans into the European Union? Probably not. Probably not. Therefore, again and again, we repeat that problems need to be solved where they arise, I absolutely agree with this, and I have repeatedly stressed that I am also following these efforts of the European Union, and the Juncker Fund has invested billions and billions in the construction of infrastructure, schools, railways, factories, I do not know what is underneath the Mediterranean, if I call even that area. But this is not something that will "take" from today to tomorrow. It's not something you can do where there's war or where there's total non-democratic order. Because as much money as you put in there, you blow it in the pockets of some corrupt individuals. These are the problems we're talking about. Until these problems are resolved and solved tomorrow, people will break in. What are real problems? This committee, which I am also on, was visiting in Jordan, among other things. We say "let the problem be solved there, the first safe country" and so on. See what happens to one benevolent country like Jordan, the first safe country. They have three million inhabitants and three million refugees. They're on the verge of a humanitarian disaster. Let's let the money go down now, the European Union helps, "be there," we all want to get rid of it in the first safe country. But they say "we don't need any more money, we have one another's population". Do you know what this means for one small country? It's a slightly bigger country than ours. And the fact that the rare parts are inhabited. These are real problems, and even if they adhere to all the rules of the European Union, they are willing to help, understand the concept of solidarity to the best extent possible, they will not endure this. Next. I was in Cyprus last week, a one-day visit to this committee in Cyprus. There cometh thousands, and thousands of young men; refugees, all of whom say they are from Syria, have no documents because they are in war. Now, one of them is from Syria, and one of them isn't. They don't have any papers. However, you have strict rules that say that if asylum is required, a procedure must be put in place to determine the credibility of their identity and their claims. Cyprus adheres to the highest standards for the treatment of juvenile migrants. All you do is say you're a migrant, you're a minor, and you get shelter, you get social assistance, you get a scholarship, they put you in school, and so on. Great. These are the values we have fought for in the European Union. But they themselves admit, many of these, most of them are from 16 to 18 years old, almost all of them coming in are 17 years old, but many of them, which they found out then are also 34 years old, and they look young. However, Cyprus shall adhere to these provisions once, so that the age assessment may only work if the person concerned agrees. And if they find out in other ways that he's older, then they can only urinate. These are real problems for me. Those who respect the highest values, the high level of human rights in Europe, the various European conventions, the UN conventions and so on will also need to understand the real problems people face on the ground. We also have them in Slovenia. I understand and sympathize with people in the White Land and where they have these problems. Is it really so terrible to die that it's the end of the world? It's terrible, of course. Here one MP asked me six times where the man who was walking through the Los Valley with a sleeping bag yesterday. Yeah, well, it's a white road, but if our worst problem is today's man who walked down the Los Valley yesterday, then we don't have any serious problems yet. But our problem is that our legislation, which is summarised in Europe, says that only when it enters our territory can it demand asylum. Of course, they all say they need asylum. So when they get it, I can agree, even with Mr Grimes, sometimes I agree, you have to think that you should limit your time. But, Mr. Grimes, they all say they need asylum, they all say that, and as they say so, procedures begin. But the process with us lasts and lasts, even in Germany lasts and lasts, that we do not think they are any better. At this time, as we all know, and as colleagues like to say, many of them get drunk, eat, change their clothes and move on. So the procedure then and in fact some long-term costs are not even available. But the question is, what is this solution? I was happy to go on a one-day visit to Zurich to see how effective Swiss people were doing this. What did the Swiss do? In five years, they put the asylum procedure into place for 30 days. For 30 days! Within 30 days, they grab a man when he comes in, process, medically inspect him, offer him legal aid, so that he doesn't have the wrong expectations, even so, and within 30 days it's decided. And they say that they have also significantly reduced the problems of returning, because if a person is already a year, two in the country, he is getting used to it, and so on, the family is coming, and then you return him, because then the process is over, and of course that's the problem. But there they know, in 30 days they'll end up, in exceptional cases in three months. But how do they do it? At all points of the state border, they have asylum centers for which people have voted that they can be there — with us people do not even allow them to be put — where they receive them, immediately undergo medical examinations, initiate procedures, legally assist them, all of this happens there. People in Zurich, with 70% of the votes, confirmed that an asylum centre for 350 people is being built on the outskirts of Zurich. We can't even deal with this because everyone's at the border against having a center there at all. I don't know how we're gonna do that. I'll finish it slowly. The problem is extremely complex, extremely demanding. And just taking a shower in moderate customers and saying it's a political agenda on the left and so on, it's not a solution in my opinion. The solution is to talk a lot about this, to look at the good practices of countries that are dealing in a good way, and to see our Members in the European Union, all of them, on the left and on the right, come together and demand change. Because our information is that concrete good proposals have been made in the European Union, but there has never been political consensus for them. There's one or the other group just before now, because I don't know which one, because it doesn't matter, jumped away. This is how I appeal, Minister, that our ministry also tries to understand people's problems in practice, try to help, assist to the best possible extent. At the same time, it is necessary to verify legislation in terms of what we can do, without specifically violating existing directives, declarations, conventions and so on, and that, at the same time as a country, we actively engage and demand changes at the level of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u80	A nice greeting to all present from my side! First, it may be necessary to clarify whether this amendment is in accordance with European legislation or not. It's okay. Just as the current law on international protection is in line with European law, this amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party does not derogate from and comply with this legislation. In our country, however, we have great problems with perception of what is right and what is wrong. When we adopt individual laws, many times the government or, I would call it, bureaucrats, government bureaucrats refer to something that cannot be adopted because it does not comply with European legislation. We've had countless cases. Yesterday we had a novelty of the Energy Act, where we have an energy card, an extremely complicated system, a bureaucratic system, and it was said that because we are required to do so by European legislation. Which is not true. There is something similar in the driver law, where European legislation does not require us to do at least, I think, 20 or 25 hours of driving, even if it knows traffic regulations, can drive and it could be 5 hours or 10 hours. This amendment to the Law on International Protection proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is that there will be no misunderstanding, totally in accordance with European legislation, and this is only an excuse for some not to support it. A colleague who spoke to me told me how the Swiss settled the issue of migration or asylum. She said something that was very important, but she turned in the wrong direction. She said: “In Switzerland, people voted that migrant centers could be where they are. People don't even allow us to set them up." No, with us, the government does not allow people to vote on this. That's the difference. With us, the current government prevents residents in the border area, specifically Jelshana, Ilirska Bistrica, from voting on this at the referendum, whether they want to set up a migrant centre there or not, which is totally unnecessary, because these migrations need to be stopped because they are illegal. And if there's anything illegal, we've said it several times, it shouldn't be. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed this amendment to the Law on International Protection for three reasons. All three of them are connected and interdependent. The first reason is that we continue to guarantee this right to all those who must enjoy the right to international protection entitled to asylum. In exercising this right, they must not be obstructed in any way. There's not many of them. There were 102 such cases in the Republic of Slovenia last year. The second reason that is most important in this novel is to prevent the abuse of asylum, to prevent the abuse of asylum legislation, which is mass-produced. Last year there were almost 3,000 cases of abuse of asylum law. But for each of these cases, the police had to do procedures, fill out a mountain of forms, enormous work, even though it had already been known in advance, in at least 90% of these cases, that it was an abuse of the asylum process. What's this all about? When someone gets across the border, the cops catch him somewhere inside, usually at the people's call, and he says asylum. And this is where the story begins. Forms, procedures, an asylum home in Ljubljana. At the time he was supposed to play an asylum role, he blinked because he was a very good organization in the background, trafficking in human beings at the top. The minister said last year that it was already, I think, about a hundred registered organizers of this business, traveling with these illegal migrants last year, 197 of those who were detected and captured. More. It was said by the Director-General of the Police that some of these are already organisers. Now they've set themselves up one level higher, they've mastered the business, they've come illegally to the Republic of Slovenia, and they're moving on, so now this business is being organised, this human trafficking is already being organised. And the third reason, which is also irrelevant, is also essential, given that the decline in police ranks in recent years is significant, especially in these operational police ranks. It would probably be a time to consider transferring one part of the administrative staff to the field or one part of the staff from other services where there are too many. However, it is a facilitation of the work of police officers in the operational handling of these cases, and this novel is a relief to police officers, because 95% of those who are currently using asylum legislation will not be able to do so again if this novelty was adopted and all the other measures that need to be taken at the same time. This, however, is more effective protection of the border, physical closure of the border and everything else that follows in this case. It is said that a consistent penalisation of all NGOs helping to abuse this asylum procedure. The last time we read the minutes of the Ilirska Bistrica Police Station, where it was written in black on white because the migrant said this, the one who illegally crossed the border to him in Bosnia, the lady from Ljubljana, presented herself with the name Tatjana, said the telephone number recorded on this record, found that it was a legal and information centre of NGOs, which the Government was even heavily co-financed, which provided guidance on how to obtain the right to asylum, although it was known that this person was not entitled to this right. Thus, the NGOs financed by the Government are working against this country, rather than being processed and put in prison, deprived of funds, the minister boasted for the last time how well they cooperated with them. But in this organised human trafficking or what, I ask you?, here are three main reasons: to ensure the right to asylum for those who need it, I said last year were 102; to prevent abuse, last year almost 3,000; and to enable police to do normal work so that they do not burn out. The numbers we have witnessed in the last two years say that something will have to be done. In 2018, according to 2017, the number of illegal border crossings according to the police and the Ministry of the Interior increased by four times. For four times — almost 10,000. In this year's first five months, according to last year's period, at the same time last year, for about twice. This means that in two years for eight illegal border crossings. So those, we're talking about illegal border crossings that shouldn't be. This is also one of the reasons why changes to formal procedures, i.e. amendments to the Law on International Protection, should also be adopted in the light of all other measures to ensure the prevention of this massive, illegal crossing of the Schengen border. Despite all these arguments, which have been repeatedly presented, not only at this meeting today, but at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the Public Administration and the Local Government, where we discussed these issues, I think that, for the first time, at least five times last October, where this issue was detected, and then at least four times this year, we have been given an opinion that the Government does not support this novel. The government of this novel, which would help plague something that is illegal and that would make it easier for the police to work, does not support it. He doesn't support it. And it is said that the novel is not formally in line with European regulation, which it does not. So why doesn't the government support it? I said at one of the meetings of the Home Affairs Committee that the problem is obviously wider than it seems at first sight. The government doesn't support it because it doesn't want to plague it. That's the problem. And here we have a substantive problem. Why doesn't he want to get in the way? Because the government of Marjana Sharca, together with coalition partners, with the assistance of the Left, is leading not anti-migrant but migrant policy. For the last time, the Prime Minister said in his reply to my question at the previous meeting that illegal migration was a fact. Hello? Illegal migration, excuse me, are they a fact? Then we don't need legislation. Then open the Jelšana border crossing, Bregano Why do people have to wait in line to wait? If irregular migration is a fact, then do not burden Slovenian citizens and everyone within the Schengen area with unnecessary bureaucracy. Let's open the border. Why people in Jelshan, locals, have to wait 10 minutes to go across the road in the summer when people are standing in a column to come across the Slovenian-Croatian border. People crossing this border inside, not outside the Schengen area. That's a dangerous statement. I'm sorry. Illegal migration must not be a fact. They can't be. Now the Prime Minister has declared it. But he is talking about making this statement consciously because, once again, this government, I stress, is in charge of immigration policy. Last December, it supported the Marrakesh Declaration, where it is explicitly stated that it is a matter of turning illegals into legal migration. And that's the problem. We have a problem here. As long as this government is clear, this problem will not be solved, or I fear, a respected minister and a respected government, that something bad will have to happen, and then you will try to solve it. That's wrong. It's already been pretty bad. An example of an 80-year-old who you told him played his own kidnapping, girls, a couple of years old, who you told her was lying to her about being stoned by these illegal migrants and so on. Under review, I must say, the ones you've been making this statement. You've lost the right measure and dignity of reason. You were well told by Bistric Mayor Rojec, a member of the Social Democrats, that such a small child can't lie, unlike some who are older when the "intelligence" began to make it up. But the essence of all of this is because the government does not do what is legally binding, people no longer feel safe in these areas, and security is their duty to ensure and rightly await. They rightly expect the measures taken by the Minister and the Government to ensure that this security is guaranteed to them equally to all other citizens in that country. For these people who live in these areas pay the same taxes as all of us, are citizens of this country and rightly expect that the government, their government, their minister of the laws of this country will first respect and will do everything in his power, along with all others, that these laws will not be violated in a mass way and that security will be ensured. That's not what this minister and this government want to do. One of the steps towards this path would certainly also be to adopt the novel that we have today on the table in the first reading, and thus to initiate a procedure that would allow this novel to be adopted at the July meeting of the National Assembly, along with everything else, which we have already talked about on several occasions, which should have been done in order to reduce this flow, this illegal transition first and then stopped. I have already mentioned that this matter is particularly problematic because it is not isolated cases and is not unorganised cases. In particular, I highlighted and based on data, both the police and the Ministry of the Interior, on official statistics, to be organised trafficking in human beings. That can't be denied. This has not been denied by the Minister, nor by the Director General of the Police, since it is known that these routes and this process, unfortunately even with the assistance of Slovenian NGOs, are carefully planned. For once, and once again, Slovenia has no major problems because these people who are crossing the Schengen border illegally do not remain in most cases in Slovenia. What happens after the only gap between Slovenia and Italy, this western border, is closed? What's gonna happen. Something similar to what the Austrians did will soon be done by the Italians. Then I think that Slovenia will have a significantly bigger problem than it has today, and it already has it today, with respect for the rule of law, with a lack of sense of what should be done to those who are well paid for it and are responsible for it. I am talking about the Minister and the Government, because the fact that the government, the Minister of Passive Policy in this area, has a passive policy to protect the Schengen border helps illegal organisers of trafficking in human beings, is, excuse me, the same as helping me in the service of another crime. Exactly the same. For this assistant means that you light the light or hold the bag, if you will. The Law on State Border Control is unequivocal in Article 2. It was broken almost 10,000 times in 2018. Last time a friend of mine who lives in the Scots told me an interesting story. I believe that many of us would have done the same thing. He took a bicycle because he has a relative on the other side of the border, in Croatia, and when he came to the border crossing, he patted his pocket and found that he had forgotten his ID at home. Do you think they left him across this border, across the Schengen border? No, no, no. And it's a good thing they didn't. Because the police did their job conscientiously. And he was a colleague of his. The one who wanted to go across the border was even a deputy officer, a known man, everyone knew him there, but the policeman said: “Sorry, my dear friend, I understand, you forgot your ID at home, see if anything happens to you on the other side of the border, they take you to the hospital, they will figure out where you went through and eventually I will be in the disciplinary process and lose my job.” And he didn't leave it across the border. Then he called his son to bring him his car card and then he went on his bike. And we're talking here, Mr. Secretary, about almost 10,000 of those who not only cross this border without showing any document come from safe countries, so they're not entitled to asylum. We're talking about almost 10,000 cases, and you and the government are still pretending that this isn't a problem. This is not a security situation, we do not need any changes, we do not need to change asylum legislation. You've sent 35 soldiers, then it's worth another 100 who are actually tourists at the border because they have no authority and are rather a burden to help. If you have already sent them — at least 500 or a thousand — you should also give them the appropriate authority. But it wasn't done. Nor were Articles 10a and 10b of the Foreigners Act activated, virtually none of what the State, the Government has at its disposal, in a certain case even with the assistance of the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority for a limited period of time, been done. None of this has been done! And the huge harassment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and everyone else who is seriously and realistically warning us that we are chauvinists, fascists and I do not know what else. Maša Kociper’s colleague is particularly picturesque, and she also seems to read fairy tales in older years. No, that's not the point. It is that we feel responsible for the people living along this Schengen border and the responsibility of the country. That is why we have proposed what should have been adopted long ago. This amendment to the Law on International Protection should be proposed by the Government last year and also by the Government last year. In addition to this novel of the Law on International Protection, the Minister and the Government should prepare all other measures to ensure effective border protection. 670 kilometers of Schengen border, 3.7 kilometers of fence you're planning to rebuild, look, it's not gonna protect you. However, it is likely that some other measures, which would also make public to all those involved in this trade today, would, in particular, be effective in preventing these illegal crossings. Just as it works to process a criminal offence against others very educationally, so it would be in this case. When the so-called “pure shovel” took place in 2007, all such and other tycoons were scared for about a year. Almost none of them spoke on the phone anymore. But then the matter has been seductive, erosion, corruption and everything else has been flourishing joyfully for the past ten years. That's the problem. I must say that, personally and also in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we regret this negative approach of the Government to this issue. We regret that the Government supports illegal border crossings. We regret that the Prime Minister is talking about the fact that illegal border crossings are a fact to be faced. We regret that the Minister and Government do not hear the people who are at risk in these areas along the Schengen border. And we regret that the Minister and the Government are preventing people from deciding whether they agree to set up a border crossing centre in some environment, in the only legitimate way, meaning a referendum. However, I appeal to common sense, and I suggest that you reconsider this position, leave the law under consideration, and perhaps you propose in a second reading that, if this procedure is approved today, at the next meeting, it is said, after a good two weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First he gets the word from the government's representative, Minister Poklukar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u82	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! In the beginning, I say again, as always, that the Slovenian police are successfully protecting our border with the Republic of Croatia, our Schengen border. In doing so, I would also like to thank the police and the police who carry out this task at the border, as well as all others, who carry out the task of internal security or the protection of public order and peace throughout Slovenia, for their effective work both in the field of migration and other tasks that they actually perform 24 hours a day. It's a good thing to talk about numbers again. By 16 June, 4 000 illegal migrants had entered the Republic of Slovenia illegally. Most of them were citizens of Pakistan, Algeria, Morocco and Afghanistan. True, we are facing smuggling of these people. More than 120 were arrested — both smugglers and smugglers — who were arrested by the police and also tried through the courts. Here I must say that the most illegal crossings in the area of police administration are Novo mesto, Ljubljana police administrations and Kopra police administrations. They are most affected by the migration of the Municipality of Črnomelj, the Church and the Illyrian Bistrica. All other congregations at the border are slightly smaller. By 16 June, 3 000 175 illegal migrants had been returned to the security authorities of neighbouring countries and entered the Republic of Slovenia illegally, more than half. This means that the police are effective and that they are doing well. As far as asylum is concerned, international protection has been filed by the end of May with thousands of 515 applications for international protection. The largest number of nationals is Algeria, Morocco, Pakistan and Afghanistan. A thousand 450 international protection procedures were resolved this year. Of this, 38 persons were granted status and 40 were denied international protection, and in a thousand 264 cases the procedure was suspended and in 108 cases the application was rejected. The average duration of the procedure for international protection is 49,5 days in the last three years. In the police with various measures and tactics, we provide border security. We have also provided funds in this year's budget balance for both police and police officers and equipment. At the border, we cooperate with special police units, with a special state border control unit, with observation, with a police helicopter, police drones and also with a military drone, we observe territory along the state border. With a special police unit, we're investigating an area along the state border where special forces are looking for possible camps where illegal migrants are being held. The administration of the criminal police is actively involved with and successfully preventing perpetrators of human trafficking across the state border and working at international level with neighbouring countries and with police in the region and around the country. The police also cooperate successfully with the Slovenian Army in mixed patrols. This cooperation is successful. With regard to Article 37a of the Defence Act, the Director-General of the Police has not yet proposed that it should be activated and that additional powers should be given to the Slovenian Armed Forces. When she does, I will also go with this proposal to the Government and to the National Assembly, where I will also ask the two-thirds majority for this authority. Most of the measures have already been presented by the Director-General of the Police on the Committee on the Interior and also to the public. However, I must say that in the public procurement order there are 40 kilometres of temporary technical barriers to the panel fence, which we will place wherever the police require it to be. Last week, cameras were delivered, which the police had already taken over, and will also slowly put them in places where this is also planned. Slovenian police are also involved in protecting other state borders. In the region, we have the Slovenian police in Northern Macedonia in bilateral cooperation, where they also work with other police and with the North Macedonian police to protect the northern Macedonian border with the Greek border. We also have them in the Republic of Serbia, where they are involved in protecting the northern Macedonian border with the border of the Republic of Serbia. We have Slovenian police officers in Frontex, Albania and Greece, in an agency that protects the external borders of the European Union. We have a police attaché in Belgrade and Sarajevo, who also provides us with all the information the police really need. We also plan police attachés in Skopje, Zagreb, Vienna and Rome. The invitation is actually already open. As far as Turkey is concerned and delete from the list of safe countries of origin. The safe country of origin is announced by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior. Under the legislation, the Ministry is obliged to verify the situation in countries declared safe as countries of origin. As the situation of human rights has deteriorated in Turkey, Turkey no longer meets the conditions for listing safe countries of origin. Albania, Algeria and Algeria remain on the list of safe countries of origin – Algeria is also the country from which the most applicants come, Bangladesh, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Egypt, Kosovo, Macedonia, Serbia and Tunisia, and Georgia, Nepal and Senegal are added. According to the European Asylum Support Office, only Croatia and Bulgaria are listed as safe countries of origin. I believe, given that these are Member States, that these two countries will also follow Slovenia and the other countries. Turkey's withdrawal from the list does not mean that we will no longer return illegal migrants there, nor does it mean that Turkey's citizen's request cannot be rejected in an accelerated procedure. The 2016 European Union agreement with Turkey concerns Syrian refugees in Turkey and Turkey has no link to the list of safe countries of origin. The objective of the agreement is to replace the process of irregular flows of immigrants with an orderly and legal process of resettlement. As for the proposal to amend legislation, the Law on International Protection proposed by Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar, as Minister of the Interior, I am always sad when, in fact, I know how difficult it is to defend internal affairs in Parliament and it is always difficult to get a majority for this. I understand, Mrs Vesno Györkos Žnidar, that she worked in a different environment where the country faced 8,000 migrants daily in 2015 and partly in 2016. Finally, I am sad when we adopted here a new law on criminal procedure, a novel that once again ran into constitutional judgment. The police need a procedural law, a law on criminal proceedings, and I believe that the court will decide as soon as possible. As far as the Law on International Protection is concerned, it was considered immediately after the closure of the Western Balkan route in March 2016, when the countries west of us adopted their national measures as a consequence of the migratory wave. It was a solution in the event of a massive number of requests, there is no such situation at this time, knowing that it is a violation of European law. The fact that the provision was not adopted has also resulted in the adoption of Article 10a and Article 10b of the Aliens Act and is now under review in the Constitutional Court. So here we have quite a few mechanisms that we can manage. But it is true that if the Constitutional Court decides otherwise, we will have to find different solutions here again. As far as the abuse of the system of international protection is concerned, we are well aware that the system of international protection is often subject to numerous abuses. As Member States' asylum systems set out a common European asylum acquis, which has been the subject of excruciating debates for many years, Slovenia is working intensively at the European level towards a recast of the common European acquis, which will enable effective prevention of abuses, rapid and effective procedures and consequently effective return of those who do not need international protection. I, too, on my own in the world of Ministers of the Interior since September in the debate on asylum law and the asylum legislative package, have always pointed out this. However, since the key documents are the Asylum Procedures Regulation and the Dumping Regulation, Slovenia has always advocated as far as possible for the earlier Regulations, in particular the Dublin Regulations, and for this purpose also proposed the exemption of the crisis mechanism provided for in this Regulation. As far as this is concerned, I am often very loud here not only at formal work, even at lunch and in informal work, because something will have to be done here. The last time, too, was an attempt to try to settle these things on the initiative of Germany, but unfortunately failed. We need to know that the asylum package has been standing for almost four years. Surveillance at the internal border of the European Union – I agree, Austria is carrying out internal border control. This protest is heard, it has also been heard in the previous term that it is disproportionate and unjustifiable, unnecessary, but it is also carried out in addition to Austria by Germany, Denmark, Sweden and France. Austria is therefore not the only one in the European Union area exercising internal control. As far as mixed patrols are concerned, there is a form of police cooperation between the two countries, between the two police forces of the two countries. We have already established it with Croatia, it is also established with other countries for different forms of cooperation, it is also established with the Republic of Italy for the purpose of increasing smuggling of people or for the purpose of breaking up criminal associations or smugglers and, of course, secondary migration control. Talks with the Republic of Italy are under way, and I believe that this form of cooperation of the two police will also be an effective form and will, after all, strengthen the functioning of the two police in preventing the crime of human trafficking. Since September I have visited the Municipality of Črnomelj, twice Ilirsko Bistrica, visited the Municipality of Kostel and also visited the Municipality of Brežica. The Municipality of Brežice, once again, I stress that it is not necessary to explain what migrants are, because there were only a huge number of migrants. I spoke with mayors, municipal councillors, representatives and presidents of local communities, in Illyrian Bistrica, also with a civil initiative. I presented, together with the Director-General and Head of the Ministry of the Interior and the leadership of the Police Police, I was also aware of the problem of waste. Indeed, the problem of waste is large and has also been addressed by the Government with a decision, so I think that it has been glassed as quickly as possible and that the waste will be disposed of at the expense of the municipality. Migrants also commit crimes. I regret the kidnapping of a citizen in Montenegro. I'm glad she's having a good time. In this case, too, the police were effective and, together with the foreign security authorities or the security authorities of the Republic of Italy, had successfully received the perpetrators. They were returned to the Republic of Slovenia and then detained and processed in accordance with legislation and are now detained. I also regret the remaining crimes that are taking place, not only in the field of migration, but also the remaining crimes in the Republic of Slovenia. Actually, this happens to us every day. Slovenia is a safe country, but 100% security cannot be guaranteed, no country can either, it is a fact that we are always stressing, but saying that the security situation in Slovenia has deteriorated dramatically – at the moment it cannot be said. In fact, all countries also recognize that we are a safe country. On the other hand, we know that the modern security challenges are such that, at the moment, the situation in the country can deteriorate. Only one event can help to make the security situation different at the moment and that Slovenia will not be a safe country. However, I must say that, for the time being, the police, with interagency cooperation, cooperation with other countries and agencies, also with Interpol and Europol, are successfully preventing and actually contacting all the threats and risks they face in their work not only in the field of migration or irregular migration, including in the field of organised crime, counter-terrorism and all these matters that the police are dealing with. As far as people are concerned — yes, people have different feelings. Last time I visited the border, a lady who says she is not afraid that she has seen many things in her life to offer illegal refugees a glass of water, including a strudel, if necessary. But I also heard people who were scared. In fact, there are these feelings that each individual has. I also directed the police to especially protect the villagers and the Lonely Households, to communicate with these people, because, in fact, no one in this country wants anything to be wrong or to be repeated by any worse, bigger thing, a crime that we don't really want. Yes, I did say – not just me, but also the Director General of Police at these meetings with the people – that the door should be locked. I live in a village in Bled, too, and I've been locking doors since I can remember. I'm not the only one. I believe most of you too. But when people tell me that they have to lock up now and that's the problem, then I have to warn them. But all you've heard is that you have to lock it. I also asked people to call 911 when they see suspicious people, when they see suspicious vehicles of foreign registrations on some routes that are completely unusual, and those vehicles were gone before. It's self-defense. As far as the dog guide is concerned, I believe there is much in these wastes that migrants leave behind. But sometimes not only migrants, sometimes waste I will say, even Slovenian citizens or residents and residents of Slovenia are irresponsible, they are irresponsible to waste these wastes. [[…]] I can't give an answer here, which I don't actually know. As far as NGOs are concerned, the police have indeed filed one application for prosecution and have also received a qualified response from the prosecution and, of course, from the Supreme Court that it is not a crime. Once again, I will stress that the Ministry of the Interior is working with a number of NGOs, that they have knowledge that the police do not have and that the Ministry of the Interior does not. However, as far as illegal practices, including NGOs, are concerned, the police will act. As far as the Director-General of Police is concerned, I must disappoint you, she is doing well, she has all my support and all the support of this government, which she has named. In fact, I am very glad that we are excellent associates and that we are doing well. But we are very frank, and we both say that we want a little more ambition, that some things need to be arranged, accelerated, but this is actually the relationship that I believe is between the minister and the director general of the police or between the head of the body in the composition that each minister actually has, and that is nothing like that. So don't worry, the Director-General of Police remains. Finally, I would just like to tell you that we will do everything to keep Slovenia safe, that security is a fragile good for which we are all responsible, that we will do everything we can to keep people and people and people of Slovenia safe, that the police will be satisfied, properly paid and adequately equipped, and that we will come with all the measures that will need to be changed in this National Assembly, from the Ministry of Home Affairs or from the Government to you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your constructive discussion as well. We heard different opinions, I listened to them, some heard them. Thank you for all this. Have a nice day!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the representative of the Magi's proposer. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you. In view of the assurance that you will do everything possible for security and for quicker and more effective procedures, you will certainly adopt the law before you in your first reading today. For you yourself have now been excellent in confirming all the points on which this law is founded. You said that about 40 asylum certificates had been granted and 4 thousand 803 had come to Slovenia, if I had correctly written down, illegal migrants who were intercepted here. That's what you say, it's one miss if you calculate by your estimate, right, all the rest is abuse. This is further confirmed by the fact that you have said that a thousand 515 asylum applications have been filed, and once again, that only a few have been granted, everything else has been interrupted or otherwise stopped, which is, of course, a reflection of the abuse of the asylum procedure. That's what we're talking about today. It's just that these things can go as fast as they can to get as low as they can. All that is happening now with regard to asylum procedures is indeed abuse. If you look at how it really became or formed an international rule or covenant on asylum procedures, if you are going at the time when this was accepted with the then living memory of war — it was meant that you have the right to apply for asylum in the first safe country or in the part of the country, if it is actually safe. As you move on, this is no longer the right to asylum. And now it's being mass-abused. All that Europe has been experiencing lately is abuse, in fact. In particular, this applies to Slovenia, because we do not limit ourselves to a wild area, but there are European Union Member States all around us. Of course, there are no conflicts in any of them, but on the contrary, everyone is guaranteed all rights and security. Because of this, all we listen to on this subject is a mere delusion. If someone travels five, six, seven safe states and then applies here for asylum because they accidentally intercept him, it's a pure abuse of the asylum process. Only things need to be named with the right name. And why does this waste so much time, energy, and money? Because he wants to make a nice impression, for example, in front of one another, but on the other hand he still has a little one eye on what is called potential voters. That's all it really is. Not all these currents are triggered by any kind of war or climate change or similar nonsense that we've been hearing lately. It drives money, money, money, and political interests. But mostly the money. And that is why it has to be done, because all of this leads to a threat to the safety of Slovenian citizens and citizens and, on the other hand, it costs tremendously. Rather than allowing the Government, which says it will do everything to stop this wave, to stop illegal migration, to support this law, to change it, or to propose its own because of me, to do just the opposite – to make the signal, one with Marrakesh, now with Turkey withdrawing from the list of safe countries, which then represents Slovenia in the eyes of illegal migrants as a promised country. And that's what makes it so much bigger. The comparisons are very interesting. I'll risk one by memory. As far as I can remember, at the time of the largest migratory flow at the end of 2015, when tens of thousands of migrants rumbled over Slovenia every day, about 150 asylum applications were filed. Don't pull my tongue, but I think there was a number there at the time. Now you've said it yourself, there's a thousand 515, it's worth ten times more. This is a reflection of how, despite the overall decline in the number of illegal migrants coming along the Balkan route – and it is also constantly increasing now – becomes Slovenia's target country. And of course, all these procedures are costing, all these procedures are exhausting the police and all the others involved in these procedures, and they are completely unnecessary. A proper change of legislation would in itself be a clear signal that we are here serious, serious with the defence of Slovenia, seriously with the protection of our citizens and citizens, seriously with the safety of all. This does not mean any violation of human rights to anyone in any way — in particular, I stress. Anyone who is actually threatened, even if he comes from a safe country of origin, can at any time apply for asylum if he proves a real threat or personal integrity, security or even his life. But everything else, I say again, is a pure abuse of the asylum system. And I don't understand the government giving priority to foreigners, because no foreigner's right to be above the right to security, to prosperity, to everything guaranteed by the Slovenian Constitution to Slovenian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see there's still interest. If they also wish to discuss the representative of the Magi proposer. Branko Grimes and the government representative, please report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has five minutes at his disposal. First he gets the word of Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Minister, you have said this, and you have repeatedly said that Slovenia is a safe country. I think it's a safe country when every part of it is safe. The fact is, we have areas today that are not safe. If you were safe, then you wouldn't need your extra call for people to lock themselves in. This would not be necessary because the country is safe and would have functioned as before. You have also highlighted certain parts where these illegal migrations are the most. Of course, you have, I think consciously, allowed this to occur in the New City area, the New Town area, and that the city councillors are, indeed, representatives of the local communities, have pointed out this on the basis of a report submitted by the police commander there. And they said that things were such that additional reinforcements were needed. Yeah, it's true, our cops are doing good. Not just good, they're great! But the fact is, we're not helping them with anything in this country. When we have a law before us that could make it easier for them to work and then we should not do things to them or do them to a lesser extent, since things would have been resolved earlier, we should not take sides with them. I think just talking about how good our cops are is just not enough. Maybe that's it. You've seen the lack of acceptance or constitutional judgment of the CAP. Look, Minister, illegal migrants are breaking in, and now the police are breaking in? Yeah, that's kind of it. So I think that certain solutions in this law have been poor and necessary to assess, because it is certainly necessary for citizens to ensure that their property is untouchable. Even those things that are problematic and we have also highlighted in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have said that we can be solved in a different way. Now I'm going to go where my debate was based and I didn't get your answer. It's true, then I repeated it, I think that both questions three times, you even told me that I repeat it three times, but you see, it was too little, because I didn't get any answer. That's why I'm asking you again, Minister. Our border is unprotected. This is not the fault of our citizens and citizens, and the consequences are borne by our citizens and citizens – by alienation, by intrusion, by destruction, even, look, they kidnapped one of the inhabitants and so on. I want to know who's going to pay for this and where our citizens should turn. I hope you won't tell me to protect or protect their assets now, because that's a real joke. Here we have a proposal for a law that would take a step forward, and you reject it, and on the other hand you will say that they should now take care of all the damage done to them by those who are illegally crossing into this country. And the state can't stop it. That's one. And the second thing I'm interested in is information of a public nature, and I think you need to answer it. How much do migration issues, problems, whatever, cost us all? Not just, I don't know, police work, not just asylum procedures, not just asylum students, but the whole thing. Financially, citizens and citizens need to know how much this costs us, given that we keep telling you that the legislation we have is ineffective or is not effective enough and that more can be done. You just think it's enough that the laws that are appropriate and effective, so please tell us these numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm afraid there won't be an answer. The minister hasn't checked in. We're moving on. Member Dusan Shisko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u88	Chairman, thank you. Dear Minister! Otherwise I didn't mean to come forward because you mentioned the migration crisis in 2015 in Posavje We all know what a disaster it was. These were hordes, the police weren't ready at the time, I believe you weren't a minister at the time, you were in a different position. But let me warn you all that at the time, the police, the volunteers, the fire department, they were all in these centers, and they were doing it for free. A lot of cops went from the police at the time because they had to chase around the coast, look for migrants on the hills, and two cops even fell and went to the hospital, but it never came a day. Next. I am interested, although I have already asked, but for a miracle, Minister, you have the Prime Minister, on the board always someone else answers instead of you or the Director-General or those who are present – and I will not take the opportunity to do so again. But you have, I can tell you, a superminister who knows everything. And I want to know, I really want to know what the answer is – or you won't be able to give it to me because you didn't sign up or I will challenge you, Minister Boštjan Poklukar, if you can give me an answer. Where is the difference when he leaves Bosnia, Kladuso and those surrounding areas, more than 300 migrants, between 15 and 20 in Slovenia are caught by police. And I believe that the police are in control of the migrant crisis at the time, but I don't believe where these 270 are. A colleague said there was one not long ago on Loka, yesterday, before yesterday, and another colleague who was a colleague, colleague A, challenged her to talk too long, although she spent more time than colleague A spent so much on it. [[…]] I am also aware that, for a short time, Croats have set up a fence on the border with Bosnia. We have a fence wired, healed, and I also told the board that if not otherwise, collect the 2,3 000 euros and send either police officers or utility workers or towpers to spray them so that they can at least see where the fence is. Since this is not just a fence for migrants, it is also a fence against the game. And we know how they objected to those who spoke at the time, and they were one to stand up, and they were immediately the opposite. Then he miraculously appeared, and the wire fence came, though we do not know from what source and at what price. So it's a real disaster. If we look at a little bit of results, numbers, in 2018 and 2019, the number of migrations is increasing by 148% in the first three months. It's not a cough. And these people, migrants, I'll say those who don't get caught are fear and trembling. A colleague who said everything was pink in Maribor, let's go two, three days to the border. I know. I'm from Posavje. I'm from Krskov. And we've been locked up our whole lives, like you said, and I believe everyone's locked. Minister, I would like to remind you that you and the Director-General can be replaced sooner or later, those who have been sitting in there for more than 20 years and perhaps only one, two sentences are fixed and the date is fixed and they give you a letter, here you have a minister, but this is something new – and you blindly believe them. And not just you, all the ministers are like that. We must certainly ensure national security first. I believe we all agree. In what way? We opposition parties will warn, of course, that the coalition will also assert, because you have an agreement signed, but you will have to press against our proposals. Believe me, we support government proposals a lot. Last, Minister [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Time's up. The next one gets the word "messenger mags." Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. First of all, in the introduction, I'd like to explain one thing about the magnetogram. In the position of the Group of Members, I said that we would not support the proposal for a amendment to the law proposed by the SDS Group of Members and Members of the Social Democrats, but we will not support it. There's one word that's superfluous, and it's not. Thus, the proposal concludes that the law is suitable for further consideration, we will not support it. That's one thing. I just want to make it clear that there would be no misinterpretation on any other occasion. Today was quite an interesting debate, I must say. There has been talk of misuse of asylum proceedings and of money, which according to the proposaler goes into improper hands or wallets. The national assembly floor also goes to taxpayers many times. Untruths and hostilitys are constantly abused, both to foreigners and to other thinkers and so on. Why am I saying that? One of the discussions mentioned that at the Austrian border we are legitimately required to show our identity card. I think or I know that even at the time of the largest migratory wave we had in 2015, I crossed the border with Austria without a document, but of course I had a personal identity, because I never knew how this would work out. Even at the time it was on the train, there were several police officers present who were on the train up and down, examined, and in whatever way they felt, I will say suspicious, removed, or legitimized. Even the last weekend in Shentyl, at the time of entering Austria, was not necessary to show anyone personal documents, so as not to abuse this room to spread untruths, because what was exposed in one of the debates – I do not know whether the Member who said this has not yet crossed the Austrian border, crosses elsewhere, but not to mention such words, because I do not think this is easy for this story. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, I believe that you will have the opportunity to receive an answer at the next follow-up meeting by the Minister, because the continuation of the meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs is promising us, because the meeting on migration has been suspended. In one of the positions it was also pointed out that France could not integrate the refugees. At least on Monday, one very beautiful story was published, I'll say, moms who came as refugees in search of a better life and took care of their children in Slovenia. Studio City announced it. Whoever listened to this, I think they can imagine. But it is true that it will take some time for them to learn the language. I must say that I have also spoken to many who came to Slovenia six months ago and to tell you that they already have very good knowledge of our Slovenian language. So you can integrate them. Although I do not know why this does not work in France, in the Republic of Slovenia it works well. Especially in young children who come without a date. During the previous term we witnessed an event or one of the children who was placed in Maribor in the school system, but then because they could not offer it all, he was transferred to Postojno. I have to say, he was ripped out of one environment, and we fought to keep him in this environment, but there was this relocation. At the moment, I have no information on how he integrated himself into the new environment, but in the environment in Maribor he was perfectly integrated and accepted things and felt good. The neighborhood took it pretty well, too. I believe that there are also good practices, and I am also aware that there are problems, absolutely, that such boundaries need to be protected. As I myself have said, we demand that the country or Government of the Republic of Slovenia do this to protect our citizens and citizens, but it should be stressed that simple matters are not as black as they are always shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word, the proposed MEP mags. Branko Grimes. Procedurally, Mr Ivanush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I have to warn the payphone that she's deceiving me. To say there's no check-in at the Shentyl border crossing, that's a total lie. Border control exists, but it depends on whether a cop decides to control you or not. So much to ask for, for the public's sake. Thank you very much. Please warn her because she's telling the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dude, this wasn't a procedural proposal, but it was more of a discussion. Please stick to the rules. And now the Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you. The Minister stated, and this is very vehemently, that irregular migration should be replaced by an orderly migratory flow, which is the goal. This reminds me very much of that text from the Marrakesh edition, if we call things by the right name, and let me be very clear: Slovenia does not need any migrant flow, Slovenia needs a regulated family policy, needs security, needs lower taxes, so that the most capable entrepreneurs, young people stay home and build their future here. This is a completely opposite policy from what the current government is implementing. This is what Slovenia needs. Slovenia has in fact been safe in the past, but unfortunately it is less secure every day, and it is your fault. Here to be naive or to put your head in the sand is completely irresponsible. Look, not only am I waiting for someone to make a public call – one such case has been on television for the last time – for people to be illegally armed, but I have data that shows a great interest in purchasing various carpentry after the new even Caucasus Shepherds. Those of you who know what it is believe it's less dangerous than an illegal weapon than a dog if the master doesn't master it. [[…]] And people do it out of fear. Because they're in danger. Look, the last time was an assault on a child. A nation unable to protect its children has no future. That's all there is to it. And this is the responsibility of all of you, those who have the government, those who have the power, those who exercise it. And don't hide behind the storks about the hate speech. You just picked someone yesterday who has a lot to say about it. Did you know that the legal hate speech is not defined at all? The hate speech is a floscule used to try to shut the mouth of some — but it is nothing else. Formal hate speech is not even uniformly defined and, according to the judgments of the Constitutional Court, it must not operate at all when it comes to the work of the official bodies and acts adopted by, say, the National Assembly. Did you know that? Go brother of the Constitutional Court decision. Since, by undefined terms, such things as sensitive, the protection of human rights and the right to freedom of expression of public opinion are human rights, human rights must not be operated. Then of course we don't come to the facts. Previously, the question was how much they really cost this story to illegal migrants. The only year when this was transparent in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was 2016. At that time, EUR 123 million was earmarked for this purpose. Since then, it's been manipulated, and then there's an office there, and then the numbers from the office are put out, which are minimal. Of course, a huge number of orders are being made and all possible and impossible measures are being implemented, but they are hidden within the individual ministries. What's the number? I think this 123 million a year is best reflected. By the way, given the relative size, it is also approximately comparable to other countries exposed to the migratory flow of illegal migrants becoming their target country. In this regard also talk about integration – please. It reminds me of those stories when they were so surprised in Britain, yes, how could those who called him Jihad John do what he did. He was the third generation in Great Britain born in Pakistan, lived in a house for £2 million, he was the most promising, most respected child surgeon. But when someone said Jihad, he went and did jihad and cut his neck. He would have been the one who was on Isis' spots until the Americans sent him a 27-mile rocket to his head. So much for integration, ladies and gentlemen. Radical Islam is not integrated. And that is why these things need to be looked at in real time, and therefore must be done in a timely manner, including by giving a signal that is clear, unequivocal, and by actually doing everything to reduce costs, making more efficient procedures and, above all, protecting Slovenian citizens and citizens in order to protect their safety and their well-being. No foreigner's right over this fundamental right of every Slovenian citizen, every Slovenian citizen to personal integrity, to security, to prosperity. First of all, Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 20 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. This is a draft resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2019-2023. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to introduce briefly the motion for a resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2019-2023. The aim of the resolution is to enable the effective design and implementation of a policy to prevent and suppress crime, or to ensure such a social environment that will have a long-term impact on crime reduction, to ensure security, stay and work in a secure environment, and to achieve such a social situation on the basis of the measures proposed, so that people feel safe. As a member of the European Union, we have committed ourselves or contributed to the adoption of a number of grounds for greater security. Let me write down some of these bases. The Treaty of Lisbon provides the basis or legal basis for the participation of Member States in the prevention and suppression of crime. With the European Agenda for Security, the Commission is setting up a strategy to respond to the threats to security in the European Union for the period 2015-2020. The Agenda sets out three areas of concern for action by the European Union. First, terrorism and radicalisation, secondly, organised crime, thirdly, cybercrime. The agenda aims to address these threats through a broader and more effective exchange of information between law enforcement authorities and better operational cooperation between Member States, the European Union Agency and the IT sector, and better training and increased co-financing for security at European Union level. For the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, it is of course important what and how we work at home in the field of security and how competent authorities and ministries respond to new security problems at home and abroad. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted some strategic documents that have responded to events and circumstances that have an important impact on security and also on individual perception of security. One of these documents is also a resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2019-2023. The primary purpose of the adoption of all strategic documents is to ensure the preservation of society's security and security culture and to promote awareness of the importance of security in the maintenance of freedom, which must be based on democratic principles and the balanced functioning of all those who can and must influence these factors in any way. This is also the main reason and purpose of this resolution, which continues its efforts to preserve the commitments and standards already adopted in the field of security policy and is substantively rewarding the resolution so far on the national programme for crime prevention and control for the period 2012-2016. An inter-ministerial working group with representatives of key ministries has been set up to prepare a resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme. It was attended by a representative of the Faculty of Security Sciences, including representatives of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency, the Office of the Government for the Protection of Secret Data, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. For each substantive area of the resolution on crime prevention and suppression, descriptions of problems and causes, solutions and objectives have been drawn up and strategies or programmes have been identified to achieve the objectives, key activities or measures, institutions and actors involved in the implementation of the tasks, deadlines and indicators for measuring performance. The resolution shall take into account the various strategic documents and work programmes relating to crime prevention, as well as international acts and documents. It is of particular importance to prevent activities in all areas. Dear Members and honourable Members, you have before you a resolution that is concrete and responds to the current modern security challenges. As a proposal, I believe that the solutions presented in the resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme 2019-2023 are appropriate, and I propose that the National Assembly also adopt the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u98	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 8th session. 5. 2019 as a parent working body has considered the draft resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2019-2023 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The amendments were tabled by the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB. The State Secretary of the MNZ provided an additional explanation and stated that the motion for a resolution is one of the strategic documents and responds to security challenges and threats that have been unpredictable over the past decade and may have wider implications for the individual and the country. It stated that the motion for a resolution follows the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy and thus provides strategic guidance for the functioning of individual crime prevention departments. The primary purpose of adoption is to maintain security and ensure a social environment that will enable the stay, work and development of an individual. The drafting of the motion for a resolution included, inter alia, all key ministries, the professional and interested public, non-governmental organisations, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the State Prosecutor's Office and so on. For each individual content area, descriptions of problems, causes, solutions and objectives have been drawn up, specifying the strategy programmes, implementation deadlines, measures and means for carrying out the tasks. She also mentioned the establishment of an inter-ministerial working group to coordinate and monitor activities related to the motion for a resolution. The financial resources required for the implementation of the motion for a resolution are estimated at €8.3 million and European funds are also available in certain areas. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation of the written opinion that the preamble to the motion for a resolution was incomplete, as the relevant legal basis should be provided. References to different types of documents shall not contain information on their publication or accessibility. In terms of clarity, it should be ensured that the abbreviations and technical terms — some even in a foreign language — are adequately explained or translated. The amendments and proposals tabled for amendments to the Committee shall also address these concerns in part as appropriate. Following discussions and responses by the Secretary of State, the Committee adopted amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups on the basis of a written proposal by the amendment, and adopted its amendments to the Committee's amendments to the section on economic crime and corruption in the introduction, to the section on the threat of the Republic of Slovenia due to serious and organised forms of crime in the introduction and to Chapter 2, Objectives of the resolution. Following the discussion, the Committee voted, in accordance with Articles 171 and 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on all parts of the motion for a resolution together and adopted them by 9 votes in favour and 0 against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc and Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister! Preventing and suppressing crime brings first and foremost security and freedom and independence to the nation in a broader sense. Slovenia is one of the safer countries, which is relative. The question is how much we are aware of the scale of economic crime, capital flight, tax evasion, even in the presence of multinationals. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by means of the proposed resolution, recognises the threats and criminalities resulting from the political instability, uncertainty of the Western Balkans, which fostered an increase in organised crime in the field of arms trafficking, drugs or psychoactive substances, tobacco, and white goods. The increase in white goods trade is directly linked to the opening of the so-called Balkan migration route through which organised criminal companies smuggle illegal migrants into other Member States of the European Union. Among these, certain individuals pose a direct theoretical threat, a threat to violent extremism and radicalisation. The motion for a chapter in the resolution highlights the forms of criminality that can be used to develop information and communication technology. The digitisation of European society has created new forms of threats called cyber threats and forms of online crime. The competent national and international offices have identified the dominant forms of online crime in the area of banking and financial services, in the field of cooperation of critical infrastructure, in the field of trade in personal data for the purpose of blackmailing individuals or business entities. To prevent and limit such threats, offices have been set up at national and international level to record cyber attacks and raise public awareness of the importance of online security. Education and education institutions and institutions play an important role in ensuring general and individual security and in preventing the rise of crime in the future. The formulation of preventive measures should take account of the broader social, cultural, economic, legal and political factors of each society. The motion for a resolution underlines the need to implement existing and new measures in the field of human rights violations and underlines the need to collect all forms of verbal and physical violence against children, women, domestic violence, intergenerational and inter-generational violence, and violence at public events. The Republic of Slovenia has thus adopted the Domestic Violence Prevention Act and the Action Plan for the Prevention of Domestic Violence 2010-2011 in the legislative field. However, the competent ministry is preparing a new strategic document, a national programme to prevent domestic violence and violence against women for the period 2018-2024. An important measure is also the inclusion of awareness of the issue in the primary levels of the educational process. In the field of economy and international economic cooperation, the applicant points out that the administrative burden and simplification of the establishment of business entities, thereby ensuring the rights of a free economic initiative, has also affected the abuse of procedures and the establishment of straw companies, businesses operating solely through the container. In particular, the simplification of legislation has consequently affected infringements of labour rights. The problems of illegal capital flight and tax evasion in various areas and forms are measured in billions, on a global scale, of course. In this area more will also have to be done in the role of Slovenian Members in the European institutions. This will also help to make less developed countries move closer to the average of development. I'm sure he can also get Slovenia here. The proposer sees in a rapid response to infringements which depend on the flexibility of legislation on the one hand and in a sufficient number of professional staff and the response of competent offices that would adequately and very quickly sanction offenders, on the other hand. The proposal draws attention to the many abuses of public procurement legislation that occur in the execution of contracts of major infrastructure projects of national importance. The resolution provides a solution to the establishment of an interdisciplinary expert group to review sectoral legislation and develop systemic solutions and to take into account consistently that green public procurement is mandatory. The Marjan Šarca Group believes that the Government has drawn up an interdepartmental strategic document, which, at the substantive and methodological level, follows guidelines for the identification and prevention of contemporary forms of crime at national and international level. As such, we will also support him in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Member Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thanks again for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are part of the global world and, like elsewhere in the world, we face various forms of violence and other forms of criminal behaviour in Slovenia. Not only with classical criminal behaviour, but also with new forms that have developed together with global social progress and the development of information technology. Of course, for us, criminal acts that go across Slovenian borders are extremely important and problematic, especially in connection with the sale of people, weapons, drugs and economic crime. Following the 2015 refugee wave, after numerous terrorist attacks on Europe, the return of fighters from Syria or the Islamic State should also be properly prepared in due time for possible attempts at radicalisation, extreme violence and terrorism, which can also take place in or around us. It's just that we're willing to do things like this, and it's not about some kind of intimidation of the population. The text of the draft resolution on the national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime for the period 2019-2023 is therefore a response to past actions and the preparation of measures to respond to the need for the country and all its resources to prevent or suppress the various forms of violence and criminal behaviour. Like all the strategic documents adopted so far, this resolution is intended to ensure the preservation of society's security and security culture and to promote awareness of the importance of security in the preservation of freedom, which must be based on democratic principles and the balanced functioning of all those who can and must influence these factors in any way. It is therefore a matter of continuing efforts to maintain the commitments already made and the security policy standards. Security is not self-evident; we must work for it at every step. Slovenia is considered a safe and peaceful country. The country's high security assessment has a significant impact on its economic development as well as on the development of an individual. The company is successful and developmentally highly motivated, so we must not allow the partial interests of an individual or individual group to become a destabilisation of the security system of Slovenia, which means that we are losing in other areas that work successfully. As has been pointed out on the Committee, the Social Democrats support that the area of security in the local community comes first. We place citizens and citizens in their home place of security first. Being safe at home means a high quality of living. Facing various kinds of violence, such as interdepartmental violence, violence against women, older people, violence against children, violence on the Internet, is certainly a problem and therefore very important. Such actions must be detected as soon as possible and prevented by appropriate measures. I would also stress the concern for the protection of the environment and human health and the related detection of environmental crime, which is becoming an integral part of today's world. We support the proposed and updated resolution on the Committee, which will successfully and effectively implement policies to prevent and suppress crime, while ensuring such a social environment that will not only reduce crime and ensure security in all areas of action, but will also help to ensure that Slovenia remains a secure and peaceful country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Ambassador Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u104	Security is one of the fundamental conditions for the operation and development of our society and our country. We are convinced that the efficiency of the country is reflected also and particularly in the level of security that it provides to citizens and citizens through its national security system. Slovenia, with all its measures, ensures a high level of security. In an increasingly dynamic and complex security environment, we need to preserve Slovenia's position as one of the safest countries in the world. The fact that Slovenia is one of the ten safest countries in the world proves that all operators of the national security system of the Republic of Slovenia provide a high level of security, while at the same time we must be aware of the shortcomings, problems and challenges facing our national authorities. We advocate an effective and timely response to the various security threats, including in the area of crime, which requires the strengthening of our own, human and infrastructure capacities and the comprehensive approach and participation of all stakeholders in society. Despite the high level of security, Slovenia is at risk of various forms of crime that cause harm to victims and society as a whole. Statistics show that between 2013 and 2018 more than 440 000 crimes were committed, on average 74,000 crimes per year. The financial damage caused by economic crime in the country has been high, with a total of €3.3 billion over the last five years, accounting for 89% of all material damage detected by Slovenia caused by crime. In the near past, a number of such security-related events have affected the fact that even the European Union countries have become increasingly involved in security issues and that such criminal and other dangerous acts for the country and citizens have also been dealt with appropriately and appropriately. One of the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia is the preparation of a proposed resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2019 to 2023, which provides for action in several areas. Among other things, in the areas of serious and organised forms of crime, economic crime and corruption, hate speech, security in local communities, public health threats, information security and the radicalisation of extreme violence and terrorism. In our region, concern is, in particular, religiously supported by terrorism and violent extremism. The terrorism of Slovenia currently does not pose a direct threat, but it is not possible to exclude any terrorist activities, especially foreign representations in our country. It is therefore essential to address terrorism in a comprehensive, planned and systematic manner. In this context, we support the preparation and adoption of the first national strategy for the prevention of terrorism, as well as the enhanced operational cooperation of Slovenian anti-terrorist units with the European Union and the Western Balkans and with the representatives of the European and international police agencies Europol and Interpol. In the area of public promotion of hatred, intolerance and hate speech, we hope that an action plan will be adopted as soon as possible, which will fully address the issue of limiting hate speech at systemic level. In this context, we will seek zero tolerance for any impatient, xenophobic and discriminatory public rhetoric and hate speech, in particular by politicians or politicians. We believe that the resolution should pay particular attention to the chapter on preventive crime activities that may not be immediately visible and have long-term positive effects. While criminal prevention includes ensuring the quality of life, social and health security and the education system and protecting and assisting risk groups and marginal social inclusion programmes. However, in order to be even more successful in this regard, we are convinced that preventive action should be included in a variety of social factors, from local to national level, the private sector and civil society. We believe that, through a resolution prepared on the basis of the proposed measures contained in it, we will eliminate the identified activities in this area and achieve such a social situation that will have a long-term impact on the reduction of crime and ensure security and living in an environment in which our citizens and citizens will feel safe. We will therefore unanimously support the motion for a resolution in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Ambassador Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u106	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! The programme act is practically a resolution. When we talk about the resolution, I think it is right that even more in a kind word it is said that this is an agreement, a commitment which, in fact, – the one we have before us today – does not contain legally binding standards. Therefore, despite the reduction of criminal offences in Slovenia according to the data, crime must be consistently suppressed. In New Slovenia, we will not support the resolution, because in certain parts it does not specifically cover certain binding standards that would, however, eradicate the crime that has actually accumulated or most affected Slovenia, and that is economic crime. Bankers and all those who have dug a bank hole don't sit behind bars today and answer. The Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin is virtually impossible to implement and is not implemented in Slovenia. And it seems to me that the adoption of a resolution, where there are no binding acts, is just a dead letter on paper. A little man who lost his job gets hurt, and then he has to patch up the bank hole and all those punks who actually robbed the country. I cannot support the resolution myself, because it was actually in Chapter 6.2.4.9, this is the Strategy/programme – a new resolution on the national programme for the prevention of domestic violence and violence against women, written on 31 June 2019. As I understand it, June only has 30 days, right? And that's just before labor. In Slovenia, we have too much violence against women and violence in the family, and so irresponsibly recorded in the resolution, I think it shows how serious this act is.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Party's Group will be presented by Ambassador Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Given the rather unpredictable security situation across Europe and around the world, the resolution on the national programme for the prevention and repression of crime is essential for the preservation of security in our country. This is a strategic document that provides guidance for the functioning of individual bodies in this area. The main purpose of the document before us today is, of course, to set up a policy that will enable the effective prevention and suppression of crime. In doing so, preventive activities are particularly important. Slovenia is one of the safer countries and we must strive to keep it that way. It is therefore important that we, as a country, are active in setting long-term objectives in this area and in the field of greater scope than that. Of course, we must also be able to implement the objectives set in practice. The resolution is divided into nine chapters or areas within which 45 individual strategies are developed. The social situation of citizens and citizens has a major impact on security. Prevention and appropriate status in the field of social and health care is of paramount importance for the country in addressing the key causes of the emergence and development of crime. That is why we will continue to seek to regulate the situation of the weakest groups, especially pensioners, as well as to address health problems, in the SAB party as so far as possible. In the case of preventive security activities, cooperation is essential in particular. We are aware that partnership should be strengthened already at the local community level, and we therefore support in the resolution those measures, which provide for the identification of problems and the search for solutions, and we particularly welcome solutions in the direction of greater visibility and cooperation of police officers within individual local communities. There will certainly be a need to strengthen the approach to preventing and persecuting hate speech. We talk about this a lot in our client. History has taught us that public promotion of hatred, violence and intolerance to individuals and groups can have disastrous consequences. As I have repeatedly pointed out, hate speech increasingly penetrates the times of our society, and, as is known, it was a hostile word before any violence. We must also stand firm against this as a country. The resolution presents some activities to reduce public hatred promotion and also highlights the examination of detection and prosecution rules with a view to preparing potentially amended legal provisions. In particular, the activities of law enforcement authorities must be strengthened in this area, and the State Prosecutor's Office must in particular change its current practice. We also want law enforcement authorities to be more effective in the pursuit of economic and financial crime. Finally, this also has a significant impact on the confidence of the population, Slovenian justice and law enforcement authorities, and consequently on confidence in the rule of law itself. We further welcome the establishment of an interdepartmental working group within our Group to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the resolution. When we read this resolution, it all sounds nice and right, but, as it is said, concrete measures will be important, and we hope that the group will have concrete, practical effects in this regard. I would also like to point out that we are pleased that, according to the Ministry, all the responsible authorities have participated in the drafting of the resolution, as all the elements of security are therefore well integrated. In the parliamentary group, we will unanimously support the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Member Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u110	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The importance of the resolution as a public statement on an important social issue is reflected in two fundamental considerations. The first is the effective development of policies to prevent and combat crime and the second is the successful implementation of crime. As a result of all activities, the social environment, which will have a long-term impact on the reduction of crime, should be simplified, Slovenia should become a place where every kind of criminal will not feel safe and carefree. We accept the National Crime Prevention and Suppression Programme for the period 2019-2023. The document is not something original, similar, with a carefully analysed existing state and proposals for action for the future we have already seen. It's no different this time. The implementation of the tasks and the achievement of the objectives set out in the resolution will depend decisively on the provision of three types of resources, human resources, material and technical and financial resources. Any success will be the result of the country's attention to this area, and this is essential – the attention the country is giving to this area. For the financial year 2019, EUR 7.5 million has been allocated for basic criminal activity and EUR 9.8 million have been allocated in 2018 and EUR 8.5 million have been realized in 2017. The country’s financial contribution to criminal activity is therefore falling objectively, and not only that, the expenditure item in the rebalancing 2019 is one of the very rare, which is lower in terms of realisation in the year before. Similarly, data on the coverage of employment systemisation in the Police for 2019 is presented. The number of jobs employed is lower than the authorized number of jobs per thousand 205. In other words, there are so many cops missing. Therefore, if the resolution and its objectives are assessed from the perspective of currently available human and financial resources, it is on the palm of its hand that it will not be achieved. The areas of crime prevention and repression are divided into nine areas, from security in local communities to organised forms of crime. Convincing evidence of how the Slovenian state is dealing with criminals in its territory is provided by the police on the number of crimes under consideration. In 2013, there were 93 thousand 800 and 58 thousand and some in 2017. The sharp reduction in the number of crimes dealt with is seen in 2015 as a result of the massive involvement of police officers and criminals in the resolution of the migrant crisis. The investigation of crimes ranged from 47% to 52%, and the rate of crimes investigated and the proportion of crimes detected by the police in their own activities increased until 2015 and then, despite the decline in the scope of the crime in question, declined again. Among the key priorities highlighted by the police in their work is banking crime and particular concern is the detection and investigation of corruption and economic crime. In doing so, it is so powerfully successful that in 2013 it dealt with 16 thousand 300 such crimes and in 2017 8 thousand 900, which is 46% less. It focuses most on crimes against banks, and it is not apparent from the material provided that it would pay particular attention to the crimes that have caused harm to the State and the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the text of the resolution is quite inconsistent with the reality described, although it has been written well-intentioned and sounds good. Members of the Desus Group are convinced that reasonable optimism does not disturb, but it is necessary to have a measure of it. Police are the control mechanism of the country, and the national crime prevention and control programme is an opportunity for public awareness that the country will have to completely redefine its usual practices and, above all, increase its money deposits. This is not in the distant future, but in the budgets for 2020 and 2021. In the light of such an imagined perspective, Members of the Desus Group will support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u112	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the resolution in the Slovenian National Party because it is the declared criminal policy orientation of our country. It's a very bad proposal. Let me quote you one of the sentences that is written: “Over the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and its territory, there are mainly Albanian-speaking and Western Balkan criminal networks that are making strong use of the links established in the former common country for the smooth conduct of criminal activities.” Let me highlight the specific area of radicalisation and terrorism. Do we have an anti-terror center? We don't have one. It is known that we do not need it, but the resolution does not talk about it either. The Balkan route is the most burdened entry route against the EU by the number of illegal migrants crossing it. This is how international flows of illegal migration take place across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, with the most exposed Slovenian-Croatian Schengen border, through which organised criminal groups smuggle illegal migrants into the interior of the country and beyond the internal borders of neighbouring EU Member States. However, terrorists have crossed the territory of our country and have been convicted in other countries, such as the Republic of Italy. On the other hand, we have problems both in Velenj, Šostanje, Slovenski Bistrica, of course also in my Krška and elsewhere where the Albanian-speaking Albanian-speaking translator is required in primary schools. Where did we come from? Ask the people on the ground if they feel safe. I'm sure you don't. However, the situation on the ground shows that we do not have enough police officers who are underequipped or who use obsolete equipment and are not in line with the greatest possible forms of crime, resulting in inefficiency. Police officers should urgently increase their powers. The problem is also the inefficiency of communication, coordination and cooperation of all national competent stakeholders. According to the police, an average of 74,000 crimes were committed on an annual basis, and this information is not accurate because it does not give an accurate picture of the actual event, where a number of undiscovered, undiscovered and unexplored acts remain. However, the number already mentioned is too high in our opinion. In the Slovenian National Party, this is how we advocate the decriminalisation of marijuana, which they also know in other European countries. The latter would mean the right direction of criminal policy. The next area is organised crime. Once again, it is the passiveness of our bodies, as they must take into account past and disincentived resolutions in their work. The main motive for organised crime is the financial benefit, which is why the perpetrators of such crimes are most affected if they are deprived of their illegally acquired wealth. As this is a phenomenon of organised crime, which, as already mentioned, is active at international level, it is essential to have an office to seize the wealth benefit, which would also be involved at international level. It is our country's duty to establish such an office which would be responsible for tracking and identifying property benefits in order to effectively identify this property, to follow and to exchange information with other countries as quickly as possible. It's nothing again. Such an office should have been established long ago and should now be fully operational. Not that the resolution proposes deadlines for the implementation of legal bases for it. These hands will be extended in one way or another. The existing criminal policy is bad because it does not take away legal action on which funds are most clearly addressed on current and priority issues, as it does not follow the stage of social, material and spiritual development, the state of culture, custom and other specificities in the current circumstances. We will not really support such a proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! We will not support the resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will not support it for a number of reasons already listed by both the SNS and NSI. I think it's another dead letter on paper. Or there's a lot of dead letters on paper here. We know that we Slovenians are experts in the writing of resolutions, strategies, and at the end of the day there is no implementation plan, no implementing act. Nevertheless, we do find a specific date here. There are no commitments to improve, no plans to do things. For a government that convenes meetings of the National Security Council when pressure is said to be exerted on one of the media houses, but does not convene when there is a kidnapping of a citizen when there is chaos at the border, we can rightly ask ourselves what such a government is or how such a government is aware of national security at all. Right here, it's as if we were deliberately avoiding migration and also some serious and more concrete measures – what are you going to do to secure the border? While we welcome the activities and commitments you intend to make or improve in the field of violence, particularly in families, and the fight against illicit drugs, I do not know what women and children will have from the new resolution on the prevention of domestic violence and violence against women, because when it comes to violence in families, against women, against children, it is necessary to react and carry out some preventive actions rather than to write resolutions. As regards corruption and the protection of public funds, we also note that there is nothing concrete about banking crime in this resolution. For years and years there have been reports, specific names, specific names of those responsible for the bank hole, those responsible for the fact that more than €5 billion have been stolen from Slovenia and Slovenia. Twice. The first time they stole it, the second time we fixed it with state money. In a mockery of all this, you name one of the main advocates of the mob, Harry Furlan, the Attorney General. Those who talk about corruption, those who say how it is necessary to prevent corruption, how it is necessary to investigate criminal acts, would not even let Harry Furlan go to any investigative body. Not as secretary, not as a co-worker, but as the Attorney General. But you do this and thus give a clear signal that corruption in Slovenia is welcome, that corruption in Slovenia is desirable and that corruption in Slovenia is not pursued by you. Here you wrote: public health procurement arrangements involving its centralisation. This will not bring lower prices, it will not bring greater transparency and legitimacy and also legality. Because this has already been tried by Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, and it has been seen that the matter does not work as it would have wanted, or as it should. We also welcome, on the one hand, that you have put certain things in, as regards information security, which is also becoming problematic. Slovenia is one of the least cyber-protected countries within the NATO Alliance, so that the establishment of a national information security system, when all these systems, anti-cybernet units and so on are established, is true over time. Improving the level of information cyber security in the economy and the security of the country in cyberspace – we have already held a meeting of the Defence Committee on this subject, but we are still waiting for the report to be prepared or that we can talk about it further. Above all, we are missing here, as I have already said, the title of the fight against corruption in banking, in health care and, last but not least, in justice. In the light of the resolution you have written, the types of a la Hari Furlan will still be squandering, literally, after Slovenian banking and protecting those criminals who should have been in prison long ago and have already returned all the property, including the one they received for the Burma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, the decision on the motion for a resolution in accordance with the timing of the meeting will be taken tomorrow, 20 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Branet Golubovic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! With the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set out the text by which it consistently implements the decision of the Constitutional Court in order to provide for 100 % of the financing of the compulsory programme in private schools. Slovenia is a community in which, together through our constitution and laws, we have decided that through education we will also create a better life for everyone. The community that creates better conditions for such a life is just and solidarity. It is also a community that ensures equal opportunities for all to develop its talents to the maximum of its or its abilities. And public education is our key tool to ensure equal opportunities for all that everyone in our community is given the opportunity to realize their talents, if they are willing, knowledge, work, creativity and so on. How we will set up future education is, in fact, a key development issue for this country. It is a question of how future generations will be prepared for the future. And only a society that gives itself will prepare its generations so that they can do their best in the future and be prepared for all the changes that the future brings. The basis for such a society that is ready for the future is equal and, of course, equal access to quality knowledge, skills and competence. This applies to all children and applies to all people. Already, our public education or education is generally among the best in the world. We do not have many other days, but this is one of those we have, and of course we are pleased to realize it from the perspective of the future of this country. There are, clearly, great challenges ahead of us as a society, and we must therefore see that all generations to come are equipped with all those knowledge, skills and competences that they can accept and face the future. And, of course, in order to maintain equal opportunities for access to knowledge for all, we have proposed a bill equalising the level of funding for a compulsory public and private school programme that implements public programmes. More precisely than so far, we also set out the conditions for financing private schools, because we also want a quality private school at quality public school, because quality private school is a welcome enrichment of our school space, especially for the development of new and alternative teaching practices and approaches. Even under international law, Slovenia is obliged to enable the development of such forms of education. With the standard of 100% financing of the mandatory programme in private primary schools, this option develops with a high standard. However, nowhere in Europe is private schools not meeting certain standards. In the new bill, we want to put the matter in such a way that at least two sections of the first class that guarantee the standard, because we do not want ghettoisation to occur, we do not want social exclusion to occur, we want socialisation. We then also stipulate that at least 80% of employees will have to be employed full-time. We don't want a nickname. Above all, at the end of this time, I would like to stress that the right to choose is important and the right to choose education for each child must be, but, of course, the right to choose is not equal to the right to finance, and so it is everywhere in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Marko Koprivc to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members, honourable Members! Public education is one of the most quality and accessible in the world in Slovenia. This is a fact and this is also shown by international research. Every child in Slovenia has the right to free education, and whether it comes from a socially weaker or a wealthy family, it is possible for him to have a public education. All parents can enroll their children in public schools anywhere in Slovenia. Can they also be private? The answer, of course, is no. It is therefore necessary to protect public education to the greatest extent possible. We are therefore very pleased that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has been able to draw up a proposal that on the one hand enjoys the support of the Government, at the same time following the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014 as well as the intention of preserving and protecting public education in Slovenia. However, the Social Democrats point out that this proposal does not break the law or restrict the establishment of private schools in any way, but only lays down the conditions for the financing of private schools from public funds. The establishment of private schools is free in Slovenia. We are also aware that private schools are also an important contribution to primary education in Slovenia. The proposed amendment implements a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 which amounts to a different amount of funding for the compulsory part of public education programmes in public and private schools. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 57 that primary education in Slovenia is compulsory and financed by public funds. It is the right of children to attend a compulsory public education programme free of charge regardless of whether they are educated in public primary schools or in private primary schools. The Constitution therefore requires public funding for that compulsory minimum of primary school, which is uniformly determined by content. With regard to the constitutional dispute of the new proposal, it should be pointed out that, in its 2014 decision, the Constitutional Court has only considered the constitutional consistency of the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI, which relates to the compulsory public education programme. What is included in the compulsory public programme is laid down in the Basic School Act. The primary education programme includes a mandatory and extended programme. The mandatory programme shall cover compulsory items, selection items and watch hours of the departmental community. In addition, activities are part of the compulsory primary school programme. Thus, the Constitutional Court has not examined the legal provision in the work relating to the extended public education programme of primary education, which includes, say, supplementary and additional education, involving students on a voluntary basis. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service is in its opinion of 2. 11. 2018 states that the requirements of some that a constitutional decision can only be implemented by full funding of the extended programme in private primary schools are not justified. In addition to the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Decision to finance a compulsory public programme in private schools, the proposal for amendments to the Act also provides for some other solutions. The protection of the network of public primary schools is an important aspect of the proposed changes. The proposed amendment thus provides that, in the event of a lack of funding in the State budget for education, the funding of the public network of schools at risk could be reduced to private schools. The duty of the State is not only to finance public programmes, including those with acquired public validity, but also, in particular, to provide an accessible public network for all children. The proposal for amendments also lays down more precise conditions for private schools to be eligible for public funding. The proposal to amend the law makes it more clear between programmes which are publicly applicable and those which have gained public validity. The proposal for amendments to the law also lays down an additional condition when the programme becomes public. The proposed novelty for private schools also introduces a mandatory evaluation of the implementation of the programme instead of the previous introduction by experiment in the way that it applies to public schools. The proposal to amend the law also introduces a change to the current designation of assistant educator for preschool children. Once again, with the proposed amendments, we are finally implementing the 2014 Constitutional Decision, protecting public education and laying down the conditions for financing private school curricula. Children are our greatest wealth, and we must ensure, first and foremost, that everyone, from first to last, will have the opportunity of a high-quality public primary school to ensure the best opportunities for their future. Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law as appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branislav Rajić, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear advocates of public and private education, today we have a proposal for a law that supports first-class legal and political issues. The proposal is expected, of course. Dr. Pical was charged with taking over the station and we're here today. In 2014, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision which has been the reason why we have been trying for five years to amend the basic law in the field of education and education. The main starting point that we have advocated in the Modern Centre Party since the decision of the Constitutional Court is that a private initiative in the spirit of free education is a welcome enrichment of the school space, but it is not possible to replace or dismantle quality public education and its public network. As a result, we have offered solutions in the past mandate that have implemented the Constitutional Court decision and improved the legal basis for the further development of both public and private education. We have focused on creating such legal conditions as to regulate the relationship between public and private schools and, above all, would protect the educational process against ideological, elitist and other abuses. Because the plurality of the selection of school programs in Slovenia is a sign of the high development of our society, which gives parents the opportunity to choose such a way of education, which they think is best suited for their children. In all cases, the country must play a clear role in overseeing educational programme providers, and in particular must ensure the same high quality and funding of compulsory school programmes. The substantive discussions on the solutions proposed in the SMC have been overshadowed. Ideological preoccupation and pre-election cleavage were too severe for the etablished parties to be aware of the importance of the occasion, although the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly clearly confirmed that SMC had implemented the Constitutional Court's decision at that time. Until the current proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service has not yet been defined, but it is in its opinion that it makes an important contribution to the search for and review of a constitutionally compatible solution. Parliamentary memory does not allow us to overlook ideological and political advances that have brought no good to anyone. For example, until last year, it was unacceptable for the proposer and the SD party to equalise any funding for the compulsory part of the private school programme, by aligning the financing of the compulsory part of the programme with that of the public education concept and even the progress of Slovenia. The only correct solution was a change in the constitution, which no one is talking about today. In the SMC, though, this change in thinking makes us happy despite the slightly discerning mists of misdirection. Some of the solutions proposed in today's novel are a step in the right direction and are, in fact, taken from the law drawn up by our former Minister of Education, SMC. Here we are talking about a clearer delineation of public programmes than programmes that have become public and are carried out by private schools, a restriction on the charging of fees for that part of the programme which will be fully financed from public funds, on the same conditions of entry, on the clearer programme diversity of private schools in the public service process and on the monitoring of the implementation of private school programmes and the possibility of deleting private operators from the register. All these are the safeguards that our educational space urgently needs if we are to enable the co-operation and further development of both sexes of education in our country, public and private. We warn, however, that there is no way to overhear warnings that with the new funding formula, parents of children attending private schools will have to pay more than they have paid so far. This is not in the spirit of the Constitutional Court ruling, according to our assessment. When it comes to compliance with the principle of fairness and fairness, we ask whether, for example, children with special needs attending private schools will be deprived of additional education to finance them, which would facilitate their successful completion of education and education. We express skepticism under the condition that private schools, if they want to be financed from public funds, will have to have at least two first-class sections. It is also provided that they will have to implement the content of the subjects laid down by the law governing primary school. Otherwise, we can ask ourselves what the actual wealth of school space is. While this condition is somewhat popular in view of the original version, the requirement for the implementation of all compulsory subjects, such as public schools, was almost unrealistic. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we understand that the Minister of Education is proposing today's novelty as a good enough basis for further discussion and without hidden purposes. Clear intentions and intentions will be crystallized soon. Since it is important that the bill deals with the competent parliamentary body, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, on which all the dilemmas that are exposed today will be clarified in substance, we will support the conclusion in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. However, until the next parliamentary debate, we will have no clear assurance that the proposed solutions are constitutionally compatible, and we are finally asking questions about our support for the bill. For there should no longer be room for ideological warfare on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President. As far as this is concerned, the position of the Left was always the same and very clear. Every cent for private schools is less than a cent for the development of public education, or every cent for private schools is too much. We consider the decision of the Constitutional Court to be nothing more than a political act. The political action, which, by a narrow majority of 5 to 4, changed the decision of the same Constitutional Court, in its second composition, from 2001 to 2001, a political decision that is in the utmost interest of private schools and organisations that have thus obtained an additional shift of budgetary money from public primary school accounts to private accounts, a political decision that transforms Slovenia from social to neoliberal state. We don't give social states in the Left. We'll fight for her forever and everywhere. The role of the social state is to ensure that all sources of inequality and injustices in society are equal and that they are eliminated at the basic level and to invest in public education, health, social services in such a way as to improve the situation of those who are most marginalized and socially and materially disadvantaged in this society. The social state is the one that, without exception, can enable individuals and individuals to realize all their potentials. The social state is the basis of individual freedom. The decision of the Constitutional Court, which is the reason for today's debate, is a step in the other direction. The flow of public money shifts from public to private and, consequently, over a long period of time, erodes the provision of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a social state. The country is as social as the strong public service system is, in a specific case, a network of lay public primary schools. The basis of all the arguments of those requiring equal financing of private and public schools is the text of Article 57 of the Constitution, which provides that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. In doing so, they forget that the Constitution unfortunately does not establish the absolute right of an individual child to free education, as parents have to pay dearly for, say, textbooks, school supplies, school activities and, last but not least, school meals. However, the Constitution establishes the duty of the State to organise primary education through public funds, which allows each individual child to be included in one of the primary schools in the public network, the public network for which the State is responsible, and the constitutional provision that Slovenia is a social state. What we would need right now is to upgrade the public network in the direction of truly free primary education, not that the funds that could actually enable this are diverted to the accounts of current and future private schools. One of the arguments of the Constitutional Court was that in modern and democratic societies, the state should also finance public and private schools when it comes to primary education, which is by no means true. The share of co-financing of private schools varies between countries, which is most important, and countries are sovereign and decision-making if and to what extent private schools will be financed. The freedom of parents to enroll their child in a private school does not mean that they have the right to request support from the State in the form of 100 % funding for their decision. In the past, the European Commission for Human Rights has also decided on this in the case of English parents. The Commission rejected the request of parents for 100 % funding on the grounds that the requirement for such financial support would mean that the State is required to provide support to an educational institution serving particular, religious or philosophical beliefs. No country has such a duty. Many European countries, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia and Spain, if I only list some, have a certain free primary education in their constitutions, but they finance private schools only to a limited extent or not. So it is a sovereign decision of these countries whether private schools will be financed by public money or not and, if so, to what extent. However, in 2014 the Constitutional Court, by a narrow majority, once again, 5 to 4, changed the position adopted by the same court in 2001, making a political decision that the private school state must finance and thus private interest. The Constitutional Court showed its true face when it stated in the explanatory memorandum that it was a prominent predominance of public primary schools in Slovenia. As if the existence of a high-quality network of public schools were a problem. Can we therefore expect from the Constitutional Court in the future the view that it is a strong predominance of public hospitals in Slovenia? Or that it is a prominent predominance of state prisons over private ones? Or is it about ensuring public safety that the police are in great supremacy? I think the point of such reasoning is logical. The 2014 Constitutional Court's decision is detrimental to society and is also not in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines our country as a social one. The Constitutional Judges and Judges have, clearly, their views, and in this case they are — and this is all before a lonely decision — with a small majority taking a stand on the side of private interest in the detriment of public, common interest. I would even like to point out that in this particular case, the Constitutional Court has overstepped its powers and assumed the role of legislator and has only violated the principle of the division of power. We therefore read the Constitutional Court's decision in Levica exactly as it was written, and nothing more. The Constitutional Court did not decide that public programmes in private schools should be financed 100 %, but that part 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education relating to public education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution and, of course, that the National Assembly must abolish this unconstitutionality. As we have said in Levica several times before, if we really want to eliminate the found unconstitutionality and at the same time draw a clear distinction between public and private education and establish an appropriate way of financing them, we need to amend Article 57 of the Constitution in an appropriate and unambiguous manner. That is why we are held back in Levika until this unconstitutionality is abolished by amending the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. Even if the law is technically acceptable in its current form, it is at some principled level a step in the wrong direction. This, in an ideological sense, reinforces the Constitutional Court's ideological view that religious communities and private individuals have the right to implement a public education programme, even through public means, despite the fact that a public school is already operating in the same area. And I'm afraid we can't agree with that in Levica. The argument that only compulsory parts of private school programmes, but not extended, particular programmes, will be financed by 100% is wrong. The partiality of private schools, their teaching approaches or world views is not something that students learn only in the afternoon or in a separate supplementary programme. The specific colouring of the entire programme is present at all hours. For a long time, in the teaching professions, it has been established that a close interlocking of knowledge, attitudes, principles and values is not a random fact, but only the essence of education and education. This is also recognized at the private school of Aloyzi Šustjar in the Institute of St. Stanislav because they write on their website, I quote: “The primary school of Aloyzi Šustjar is a Catholic primary school. Its character is reflected at different levels in the daily and annual programme. The beginning and the end of every school day are handed over to God. For all children a school subject is required to learn about the faith," and so on. “The school is supposed to become an environment based on Christian values.” End of quote. The fact that the basic programme simply cannot be clearly separated from the widespread means that the financing of compulsory school content is, at the same time, the financing of the specific principles by which the school operates and the values and attitudes it wants to transfer to new generations. This means that the financing of the compulsory part of the programme in private primary schools is at the same time funding the value guidelines of individual private providers of primary school programmes. And since the vast majority of all private schools are associated with the Catholic Church, this thought is so much more appropriate. The Roman Catholic Church is undoubtedly an extremely rich institution. Its wealth is estimated at more than €10 billion, so we cannot agree that its educational institutions must be financed by the state. Even if we take into account the fact that the RCC gives millions of euros each year and gives them unjustified tax exemptions. Only a public school is a guarantee for a secular curriculum and, under all conditions, accessible education is available. Public primary school also deserves criticism, certainly, but such criticism must be designed to improve public schools rather than to subjugate them with private schools. Additional funding for private schools would mean that these schools could also achieve higher standard education through a small contribution from parents or support organisations, leading to the long-term domination of private education over the public. Private education, however, is not universally available, but is selective and exclusive on the basis of property and other personal circumstances, as it strengthens class divisions in society and leads to one school system for the rich and one for the poor. Only a public school is truly inclusive. Accept everyone regardless of property, skin color, faith, social status and so on. On the contrary, such as the implicit neoliberal ideological position of the current composition of the Constitutional Court, in Levica we believe that what needs strengthening is public education. In doing so, we must not forget that, due to austerity measures and belt tightening, public education is absolutely undernourished. We therefore need to make use of the favourable public financial situation to strengthen the public school system, for example to ensure everyone's right to an effective free primary school education, which will provide free textbooks and school supplies and food for all school children, including preschool education. By no means should we allow private schools to paralyze these same resources. Equalisation of funding is a clear neo-liberal attack on public education leading to increasing commercialisation, increasingly poor quality and increasing inequality in society. Therefore, in Levica we reject the idea that 100 % of private school funding is the only way to eliminate the unconstitutionality found by the Constitutional Court in 2014. The proposed law provides only for the financing of compulsory work and lays down additional conditions for obtaining the right to finance. In this part of the Ministry of Education's efforts, in fact, we welcome, but it is clear from the publicly expressed positions that the law will not be adopted in the proposed form and that funding will change and potentially extend to an extended part of the programme, due to the pressure of right politics, the Catholic Church and private schools with amendments. This will significantly change the marriage, and we feel that it is certainly the worst. Because of all the above and the fact that part of the coalition has also publicly announced that it will continue to give in to the right hand, we will not support this law at this stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Tonin will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u124	It's about elementary schools that my kids built, but more about it later. The Law of Minister Pikal in its current form is unconstitutional, as the decision of the Constitutional Court of 4 December 2014 was very clear. The public programme requires the same payment regardless of which walls this public programme is carried out, either for the walls built by the municipality or for the walls built by a private person. Therefore, this proposal for a law before us today can certainly be understood — everything from 2014 to this day to get it on the table — as a kind of mockery for parents, including children, especially the rule of law. In a way, our Group of Members also feels played. Last December, we did not join the signing of a constitutional indictment against the Prime Minister of the Government because we sincerely believed that Minister Pikalo would take matters seriously and end unconstitutionalism. Even more, we asked him for a meeting, but since that written request, it's been months and we haven't had a meeting today. The key to all this is that it's not about money. We're talking about 300,000 euros. Thus, the financial consequences of this law are relatively insignificant compared to other laws. In comparison, for example, the budget of the Advocate for the principle of equality, from which we would rightly expect to advocate the principle of equality of children and parents even in the case of primary education, is about four times higher than the funds we are talking about. Its budget is 1.1 million euros, and 300 000 euros would be the cost of the country if it were to eliminate unconstitutionality. Among other things, I think that in the previous term, the government has also signed a special agreement with a Moscow Russian school and provided it with half a million euros, that is, 500 000 euros to operate on the Slovenian coast, which is more than Slovenian children in Slovenian schools. I therefore very clearly stress and underline that, in the case of this law, it is not a question of money, but it is a purely principled, ideological question, which Minister Pikalo and his client, in particular, and Levica, also want to engage in a fight against all private matters, because everything in private is supposed to be extremely bad, and they give the impression that now we all have to finance private schools that are supposed to have some superstandard to protect public education. In front of who? Whom should public education be protected from? In front of who? This is a fundamental question. In front of who? We have poor or around 700 public schools in Slovenia and six of them built by private people and have public trails. And these six private schools are supposed to pose a threat to public education — understand who is more. And why is this thing so politicized? Because it is blurred and used on one side, especially on the left, to try to strengthen its electoral base, in the past we have also seen an attempt to change the constitution and similar things. And why did I now bring these three primary school models built by my children? Because I would like to show one thing very plasticly — helping me not to feel offended, it will help me to make it easier for me to explain. But I'd say we have three types of primary schools in Slovenia. For example, we have a primary school — to be represented by this building — built by the congregation, we have a primary school built by someone who is a private person, and we have another primary school built by a private person. In these two primary schools, which have a green roof, a public programme is implemented in both schools. This is a programme approved by this country. In a school with an orange roof, there is a pure XY program, whatever this school wants, and it is a private school. We're not talking about these schools today, so I'm just gonna pull it off the table because it's not on our tables and it's not on our agenda, I'm gonna put it down. And then we stay at two primary schools. One builds a congregation, the other builds a private. In both cases, the same public programme shall be implemented. The Constitutional Court said very simply that 100 % of these schools need to finance a public programme so that there is no reason to finance 15% less in schools where the walls were built with the help of private people. And one more thing. This is not about funding schools, which is highlighted, it is about funding the programme. As this school, which was built by a private person, has a public programme, costs the infrastructure itself. The roof, the windows, the heating, the floor, all the equipment paid by the private, that is, the founder who founded this school. So I would say that every cent that the state gives to such a school is a cent more for quality content. Because, in all these schools, if a state-provisioned public programme is being implemented, thank God that the country has disposed of the cost of maintaining infrastructure in this case. Those Members who have ever been mayors of the municipalities will know exactly what the costs of primary schools are, how they should be cared for, what should be invested in them, and thank God that you have a private person who is willing to take over this cost while implementing a public programme approved by the State. What will the Law of Minister Pikal do? Clearly, it is a shame to confirm it today because it will be unstoppable. Since the Constitutional Court has said that these two public programmes need to be levelled and the ministers' proposal not only to equalise, it even reduces the resources they already have today. So it doesn't improve what the Constitutional Court has imposed, the situation, but it even worsens. The second is that the law of Minister Pikal promotes elitism. What exactly am I saying? This is an example of a school in Maribor which has a programme of montessori built by a private person and has a public programme. And when this debate opened in Parliament, after the principal's testimony, calls began to take place at this school, and now that this law is adopted, poorer children or children from socially disadvantaged families will no longer be able to afford to attend this school, and now these schools will be able to attend those who will be able to afford them. That is why we claim that the Law of Minister Pikal promotes elitism and creates schools that only the rich can afford. Not to mention, it's reducing the choice. And even more, of course, is some kind of political audacity, that the minister, as he claims and as they say, will not only stop at schools, but will continue this path in kindergartens. That is why today, before the door of Parliament, you were able to follow a protest that has never been seen before. Because civil society woke up. Because as long as it was a question of six primary schools, it was a small group of people who may have seemed relatively irrelevant to the SD, and it was a good tool to highlight their socialist policy. But now that they have announced that these policies will also begin to be passed on to kindergartens, a wider Slovenian civil society has awakened. And I doubt she'll take it. In pursuing political objectives, Minister Pikalo reinterpreted the decision of the Constitutional Court. If we are very clear, the decision of the Constitutional Court concerned ZOFVI, namely the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. And it clearly stated in there that 100% of the public programme should be financed. Therefore, the decision of the Constitutional Court concerns ZOFVI. The Minister now brings the Basic School Act to the reinterpretation of this Decision, which is not covered by this Decision. And the Basic School Act stipulates that we have a mandatory and extended program, but this is in the Basic School Act. However, in the ZOFVI, which the Constitutional Court has ruled, it has said that it is a public programme, and since the primary school in Slovenia is compulsory under the Constitution, it is necessary to finance it 100%. And to return to the Basic School Act, which has a mandatory and extensive part. They are compulsory according to domestically stated objects, such as protection, supplementary education, additional education. The Minister now proposes that this compulsory part be financed by 100%, extended such as child protection and additional education, but nothing. Therefore, calculations have shown that these schools, which have been built by private individuals and have a public programme, would actually worsen the situation. But if you are looking at the Basic School Act as a whole, then you see that the public program is a whole mandatory and extended program, that these things cannot be shared in two parts if you want to implement a public program. Why am I telling you this? I encourage the Minister to take a look at Article 69 of the Basic School Act, where it is very clear that a student can repeat a class, it is said, is evaluated negatively and repeats the class if the primary school has offered him a supplementary education. So you can imagine now if the minister says that the extended programme is optional and we will not finance it, that means that, after the current Basic School Act, students simply could not repeat a class because they could not offer them additional instruction. This is total nonsense, but it is in the interest of making it clear that the public programme needs to be understood as a whole as a set of mandatory and widespread programmes that cannot be distinguished. Then there was a whole series of deceptions. Many times it is used: “You know, this is now the majority in the Constitutional Court, because if it were different, the matter would be different.” And one of the decisions of the 2002 Constitutional Court is pulled out and says, "But you know, then the Constitutional Court has made a different decision." But that's not true, because it made two different decisions. In 2002, it ruled on education as a whole, i.e. primary education, secondary education, education as a whole, and said that the State should finance it according to its capabilities, which is the only logical thing. Well, then came the year 2014, where it relates only to the public programme only in primary schools, which is also prescribed in the constitution. Many of those today did not take the time — you had an obligation, I understand, the meeting was ongoing, but — to listen to parents before the National Assembly or at a meeting in the State Council that was truly concerned. And they find it difficult to understand why a party or a minister wants to build his career or his way on their shoulders and why they should be discriminated against, why they should be financially disadvantaged only because their child attends a school where a private person has set up the walls of this school, despite the fact that this school is carrying out a public program endorsed by the State. This is simply incomprehensible for parents — that they are discriminated against in such a way that they have to pay for a matter prescribed by the State. According to the things that Minister Pikal's client is supposed to advocate, they're for solidarity, they're against dispersion, but once again I'm underlining the Maribor case. [[…]] Call the headmistress in Maribor, montessori, and she'll tell you these things. In short, if this law of Minister Pikal sees the light of the world, it will mean the distribution of Slovenian students and students as well as citizens and citizens. Because today the system we have is such that it allows for schooling in these schools, which have been built by private people to all, no matter what religion they are. Those who are today or who will still discuss how to attend church schools — although the expression church is strange because we have six schools and there are two of them and then there is a generalization — how those who may be different religions or who are atheists should not go to these schools. It just doesn't hold. If you go to these schools and ask them, you can find that these schools are attended by atheists, including different religions, in short, these schools are supported. And we have a system that actually helps the country to take on the costs of infrastructure so that the country can give each cent more for a better, better-quality programme. And now not only does such a system want to break, it even wants to get worse, or it wants to break. And that's hard to understand. Of course, it's all under the pretext that I know what the left party or the SD is trying to arouse in people, these pictures of American private schools or British private schools, because the tuition is 50, 100,000 euros that only a few people can afford, and they're scaring with these images, you know, we're afraid of schools like that, because then it'll mean I don't know what else. We're a long way from that and I'm not talking about these things. To come to a solution in the end, I see two solutions in particular. One solution is that the Constitutional Court simply decides and just corrects the article of this unconstitutional law. That wouldn't be the first case. Remember the case of the Municipality of Ankaran, when the Constitutional Court ruling was clear, this Parliament or the legislative branch of power did not wish to do so, but it was not because of such political mathematics, and the Constitutional Court only intervened and established the Municipality of Ankaran. We got it today. In this case, too, the Constitutional Court has this option. I think it would be wise to avoid all this political overreaction, this tension, even the concern of parents, if a simple Constitutional Court were to resolve this matter alone. Finally, it would have a legitimate reason because the legislative branch of the Authority has not been able to do so since 2014. That's one option. The second option is to simply reject this law today, to vote that it is unfit for further consideration, and to form a normal coalition that will try to respect the principles of the rule of law and to write such a law in the spirit of the rule of law that will implement the Constitutional Court decision. As potential candidates in such a coalition, I see just all the parties, with extremely Social Democrats and the Left, while all the other parties I see as potential that they could simply gather together in such a coalition and realize this. As I said, the New Slovenia Group will vote that this law, brought by Minister Pikalo, is inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The following position will be presented by Mrs Maša Kociper, the position of the SAB Group. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The decision of the Constitutional Court, already mentioned several times today, and the attempts to amend the legislation in this case have obviously triggered very painful, including very emotional responses. The sensitivity of these responses suggests that it is really not only a question of how to finance certain schools technically, but of an ideological question or, as the speaker has already said before me, a question of principled nature. I'm sure that's true. We also believe that this decision in this particular matter affects not only the way education is financed, but also the future development of Slovenian society. The full financing of private schools with state money is, in our view, an introduction to the distribution of our society. The same starting point for all children, all children in our country, regardless of their social status, as has been successfully provided by the public primary school, will be disrupted. I stress that the Slovenian company is one of the least dispersed. We should be proud of this and keep it at all costs in the future. What is the first basic difference between public and private schools? A very useful tool, I agree. If these are public schools, then we need to know that the country is obliged, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, to provide this school throughout Slovenia. It is said, in remote areas, where there are not enough children, where accessibility is more difficult and so on. There must be a school, there must be transport and so on, regardless of market parameters. School number 2 and number 3 in such areas will never work. Further, school number 1 has to provide and receive children regardless of where they come from and who they are. School number 2 and number 3 have a lot of choices. It is likely that this choice will be of a market nature in particular. School number 1 must work regardless of whether it is marketable and sustainable, whether it is attended by 5, 7 or 300 children. School number 2 and number 3 will only work as long as this is market sustainable, because this is an interest that drives public initiative. Thus, the full financing of public and private primary schools would lead in the long term to the impoverishment of the network of public schools, because instead of encouraging this type of school, money would flow into this school, but no, I agree, and sooner or later, we would receive two types of schools, as has already been said today, schools for the rich and for the poor. And we want in the SAB party that poor children have all this first starting position the same – primary school. Then they will be detected by companies, other secondary schools, sponsors and education in the future, but they must have the same starting position. It is therefore the duty of the State to provide conditions for a quality education and education system and to ensure equal access for all participants in the educational process, irrespective of social status, as stated. This is a hard-to-require right which must not be waived under any circumstances. The concept of Slovenian public education and the social state is based on an understanding of the relationship between public and private, including in education, of the meaning of the social state, which gives some substance of public good, accessible to all. And this, as it is said, is especially true of primary education. By equating the financing of the mandatory part of the programme in the SAB party, we have problems. Here we will follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, even though some disagree with it. In doing so, we need to know that there is a distinction between these schools, which my colleague has very nicely pointed out before me. The third school, a completely private school, implements programmes that our country has no influence on, we have a school in Slovenia that raises children completely in the American spirit. They have American holidays, days off when there are various American holidays and so on, they learn about the American state and so on. And they cost a thousand 200 euros a month per child. I've been told that by acquaintances who have a child in a school like this. And then we have this school where parents said, this public school, we don't have something right here, and we want a slightly different program, a little different pedagogical approaches, we want our children to be raised a little bit more in the Christian spirit, or we want to use special methods in teaching, this school is not okay for us, we think that our children would be something else. And the Constitutional Court said, okay, because you're so kind and you're doing a mandatory programme, a mandatory public programme, we decided that the state would fund you 100 percent, but if we even out the funding in the rest of the work, then there's no difference in this school that has to provide everything I've listed before, and this school that can only provide what it wants. And I'm sure this way the first school will be a little impoverished. In this school, in my 10-year-old girl's class, there are 29 kids in class. There are 12, 14, 17. And if some parents want a little overstandard, which I don't mind if they want small classes where their children can be more dedicated if they want special educational approaches for which the state has not yet decided to pay something small. Let them pay for something small. [[advertising from the hall]] Let them pay something small in terms of the program. What some parents pay for is that their children have ballet and piano here, and so on. That's another thing. That's what we pay those who have children here. Do not discuss [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u127	Colleagues with SDS, please, if you'll let Mrs. Kociper finish her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u128	In short, I resigned from the usual handout because my colleague also resigned, and I think that was very good and very welcome. We are discussing a particular case, and such an illustration is very useful. And if this decision offered by the Ministry is unconstitutional, we do not know it yet. The claim is simply that this is unconstitutional, and we have already had a lot of such claims, and it turns out that it was not unconstitutional. And a thousand times in this house, we were convinced that it was constitutional and all right, and then something turned out to be unconstitutional. The News of the Law on Financing in Education and Education, which is ahead of us, is addressed in our opinion and offers answers to the questions raised in the Constitutional Decision exactly. In our view, the proposal to amend the law adequately protects the network of public schools while at the same time respecting the Constitutional Court's decision. Thus, the mandatory part of the programme, which is the same here and there, will be financed 100 %, and the enlarged part of the State budget will not be received for once under this option. Even without this, the private school can acquire public authority, and the Government and our Group of Members seem to believe that the full funding of the extended programme is completely equivalent to the financing of both schools. In addition, we forget that the law makes many other changes, such as the acquisition of the public validity of new emerging schools. Because if a lot of such schools arise and many parents decide about them, even if funding is equivalent, the state will still have to provide this school. Therefore, there is a need for emphasis on the network and the frequency of schools. As an extremely positive one, I will also highlight the evaluation process envisaged for newly established private schools by this novel. This will provide, in accordance with the model procedure, a certain level of quality that such schools will have to provide. Thus, the Institute of Education and the competent authority will monitor and ensure the evaluation of these schools at all times. In addition, I would like to point out in the end that a number of other countries that have an established system and encourage parents to decide on different educational approaches and systems are almost nowhere to fund these two schools in the same percentage. That was already said by the minister. They are financed to a lesser extent or not at all. But, as the Minister has said, the right to choose is not equal to the right to full funding. Finally, I would like to say that they do not follow the statement of individuals, that some will now be harmed, that they have gone to this school under different conditions and so on. This novel will not make the student situation worse, as those already enrolled will maintain equal conditions until the end of their school curriculum. This applies until the end of the education of the last generation, entered in the school year 2019/2020, is said now that we are adopting this law. They also do not agree with the statement of some that children will not receive full education by financing only the compulsory part of the programme. I think we've cleared that up. That's not true. For the achievement of the objectives requires only compulsory education and not the rest. So, I stress, in the SAB Group, we do not oppose a variety of offers and different choices of individuals, we can also support them, but if you want something different and something more, give something more to pay. However, we will consistently and always strive to ensure that public school is also of quality, to take new knowledge of pedagogy, educational approaches and to follow the development of society and everything we need to teach our children to survive in this fast-growing society. Let me get this straight. The duty of the State is not to support an educational institution that serves individual religious, philosophical or other beliefs to which I do not oppose, but to provide a strong, quality and accessible public education. Every child, regardless of social status, must be given the best development, the same starting position – only in this way will we raise citizens who can work usefully, freely and in the interests of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister with a team, Members and Members of Parliament! If I say that we are at the end of a five-year effort today to implement a constitutional decision, it would seem that there was no solution before or that the solution was not the right one. It is now clear that this painful and divisive path could be completed substantially earlier, since today we have before us the solution that we have in a similar version and substantively similar in the parliamentary benches at the end of 2017. Sadly, this congregation in that time was unable to follow and adopt. In our Member Group, Desus, we want to make a successful conclusion to the story this time. The bill that we are considering today is a good basis for our Desus Group, a law that will meet the Constitutional Court's decision in a coordinated and complementary manner. Already in the drafting of the law and on the basis of comments in the coalition's parliamentary groups and statements by the President of the Government, the possibility and need for certain additions to the proposed law appeared. It does us no good to adopt a law that is immediately subject to a new constitutional judgment. As an advanced social state, we are implementing a constitutional commitment to allow each child financially to receive the prescribed minimum of basic education to the full. Since primary school is compulsory for all, this compulsory minimum education must be the same for all pupils, whether they benefit from public school or attend private educational establishments. So the same by content and by level of knowledge given and acquired. The financial burden in this part of the programme, i.e. the mandatory programme, will not be borne by any children or parents. This is the primary resource of a just society that creates equal conditions and opportunities for all. State systems, as a rule by collecting public money through taxes and contributions, provide certain services to the public. And it is right that these services are generally provided by public service or public service providers. Thus it should be in health care and also in education, as health and education are two key factors in the life of an individual who must be available to all, at least in basic terms. If we want the service earlier, if we want more from a service, if we want a different approach to the service than is set out here in the base basket, which is, of course, adapted to the available budget resources, we need to pay from our own pocket for it. In the Desus Group we advocate the preservation of public education, public health. We will never change that attitude. We are convinced that only through public forms of citizen service can the state guarantee rights to all and under the same conditions and, ultimately, the same quality. We believe that the social and solidarity state, which the Republic of Slovenia has always been, with the allocation of budgetary resources, must first take care of the most consistent and quality provision of public goods. Compulsory primary education is a constitutional category and therefore public value, its contents, ideologically, philosophically and religiously unburdened, benefit each individual and society as a whole. This primary education must be accessible to all under the same conditions and public schools are considered to be well organized and geographically stable. Of course, in the Desus Group, we have nothing against the establishment of private schools. It is right that parents have a choice when entering a public or private school space. This means that they can freely decide how and where to raise and educate their children. We agree that private schools, with their teaching approaches, different educational practices and, last but not least, the content of the content that is based on certain worldview views, are rich in school space, while at the same time providing compulsory content with an equivalent educational standard to that of other 98% of public school guards. We also agree that just as a public school, a private school must open its doors to anyone who knocks on them. A private initiative in the educational sphere must not be suppressed. But what is commanded by all must also be guaranteed to all, in the same way, through the mandatory programme. As a result, it is clear that it must also be financed to the same extent. The proposed amendment to the law thus equates the scope of public and private school funding, which implements publicly applicable educational programmes and obtains 100 % of the funding provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the compulsory public school programme. The Constitutional Decision has been implemented for us in this way. An important aspect of the proposed novel is also the establishment of a clear divide between public and private. Public schools are the foundation of Slovenian education with a long tradition and are also known for its outstanding achievements at international levels. The existing public network of schools is high-quality and makes accessible to everyone throughout the country, so we agree that this public network must be protected. I am pleased to welcome the novelist who is protecting the existence of a public network. There are several other important correlations between public and private which, through the prism of equivalent public money financing, justifiably require certain treatment or verification by the financier from private providers. It is subject to evaluation of the implementation of the compulsory programme and the possibility to delete a private school from the public agenda if it violates the provisions in accordance with the objectives of the education and education system and the provision of an equivalent educational standard. The deletion also means the abolition of funding. Fearing that the situation will deteriorate for existing private schools to be financed to a lesser extent than ever before is over. For those who have a concession, the situation is maintained, meaning equal to 100 % of the funding in the mandatory and extended programme. Those who have gained public service will also be financed as before, i.e. in 85% of both types of programmes by the end of the school year or generation to be enrolled in the school year 2019/2020, that is to say for the next 9 years. All others who will be established from now on will, of course, receive slightly lower funding, which is, as we say, correct and only acceptable. Once again, we believe that what is proposed in this novel is a good basis for a law that will meet the requirements of a constitutional decision in a coordinated and complementary manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the seat of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u132	Your Honor! Education and education is intended to be based on the quality of services, to place a child or youth at the centre, to follow the fundamental principles of teaching work and, of course, to be based on the free choice referred to in Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The question is whether that is true in Slovenia today. The public school system, which we can simply call a state school system in Slovenia today, since in most schools we have 99% of the primary schools funded by the state, has provided more and more effective social education for all individuals and leave no one outside the required standardized education cycle. I hope we are all well aware that children differ in their abilities, inclinations, experiences, family environment, social inclusion, the environment in which they live, according to foreknowledge, computer literacy, artistic creativity and could list more things. In State education, a number of principals, teachers or educators are aware of this, but this school system does not allow their alternative activities in the classroom and even less alternative education of the child. We can also talk about the repression of the state school system, because the state prescribes the programme, the subject of the school, a school calendar, how teachers should teach how to write journals, preparations and so on. Thus, students and teachers comply with national regulations and the school has become a means of achieving state objectives and the ideology of the social system. All of this is, of course, contrary to the basic principles of pedagogical work, contrary to the psychological view of the development of a young person. At the heart of our education we need to put man, youth, child, as an integral personality in our physical, mental, intellectual, social, moral and spiritual dimension. Of course, we are parents here on the other hand who have different views on the upbringing and education of our children. It is clear that we do not have a unified opinion on this, but it is important that we want our children to have the best that we want them to find their way in life. We know that every child has its own specifics, which are sometimes particularly pronounced. As this sometimes diminishes in public schools, the school system becomes inadequate for a number of children and parents and thus, due to the skeletonity of the state school model or system, the shortcomings of public education, where the assumption that everyone in the class is equal, create the need for private and alternative education. By establishing non-state schools, we are beyond pedagogical rigidity and approaching the ideal of psychological development of children. We eliminate the bureaucracy of education, the uniformity of school space, the uniformity of teaching and learning, the impersonal approach, inefficiency. In addition to state resources, new funding sources are being introduced, namely private funds for investments, material costs, as we know that private schools, i.e. non-state schools, are being financed by those who are founders and not by the State. In the Eastern European countries, which experienced the democratisation of society in the 1980s and 1990s, there was also a huge leap in private education. So much more private education we meet in the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary. Slovenia has been quite shy in this and has a very low proportion of schools, whose founder is not a state, which is below 1%, and is still on the European tail today. In Slovenia, the following private primary schools are running publicly valid educational programmes: Waldorf School, which started in 1992/1993, Aloyzi Šuštar Ljubljana Primary School, started in 2008/2009, Montessori Institute 2010/2011, Private Education and Education Institute of the Walfdor School of Maribor in 2015/2016, Anton Martina Slomška Maribor Institute of Education and Education begins with work in 2015 and the Institute for Integrated Education and Education of Children LILA, which received a confirmed programme in 2016. Thus, less than 1% of the population of all primary school children attend the schools mentioned. The 99% share of State education has placed Slovenia in the very top of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia therefore provides in Article 57 that education is free, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. The state creates opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education. The laws we adopt in Parliament must comply with the Constitution. If the law later turns out to be contrary to constitutional regulation, this needs to be corrected. In the National Assembly, we have tried this four times in the previous term, in this mandate already once by the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we proposed that the programme, the school's public programme, be financed by 100%. So today we can say that we can already be tired of explaining, showing how and what the Constitutional Court has decided and how the law should be properly written, and also proving what alternative schools mean to many children and parents. Citizens, parents of children who attend private schools with a public programme were of the opinion in 2012 that the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education violated their constitutional right and applied to the Constitutional Court for a constitutional assessment of Article 87 of the ZOFVI. In 2014, the Constitutional Court decided that the first paragraph of the second sentence of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education at work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. Now I'd like to ask for a presentation. What does the decision of the Constitutional Court say? That the first paragraph of the second paragraph of Article 86 relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. A little less can be seen since this article, Article 86, is very long, but it is clear and clear that private schools implementing public education programmes currently account for 85% of the funding provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. So we're talking again about a public programme. Today, the public programme under Article 14 of the Basic School Act is divided into compulsory and extended programmes. The public programme referred to by the Constitutional Court that it is necessary to finance 100 %, regardless of who the founder is, is divided into a mandatory programme and an extended programme. They both represent the whole thing. The school is required to describe both the compulsory and the extended programme. I am surprised that the Minister, when implementing one of our fellow Members on the extended programme, has moved his head, if any, it is not true that the complementary and additional ones are part of the extended programme. So once again, you have a mandatory program written in, in addition to all subjects there are still natural days, technical days, sports days, school in nature. However, optional selection content, individual and group assistance to pupils, additional supplementary education, extended stay and morning care are included. The public programme in the Basic School Act, once again, is therefore divided into compulsory and extended and the Constitutional Court is talking about a publicly valid programme. Today, funding under the existing law is done in such a way that, where the founder of the State and the founder of the private sector, both implement a publicly applicable programme, both mandatory and widespread. Today we have this kind of funding, which is 100%, where the founder of the country is, where the founder is 85. What's the government's proposal? Here's the deal. They divide the publicly applicable programme separately into compulsory and extended programmes and they want financing to be like this, 100 % compulsory, extended to 0%, which together means this, 65% of the funding of the publicly valid private school programme. This is purely simple elementary mathematics, a little legal, a little understanding of what you read, and then you get essentially this, that the publicly valid program will be financed in a lower percentage of the Ministry of Education's new proposal. So whoever doesn't understand it today can give you the powerpoint and take another look at it. What does that mean? When you say that the extended programme is financed by 0%, this means that you will not finance private schools implementing the public programme, not individual assistance to students, not supplementary education, not additional and nothing that is essentially in the enlarged programme. At the same time, of course, Article 17 states that all schools, including private schools of course, must provide minimum knowledge to enable successful completion of education and so on. How will private schools, for example, help those students who do not achieve minimum skills? Now they're helping them with group help, with a background study. How do we proceed? And of course they will also offer it, and I believe that teachers are also qualified enough to understand that if students want to achieve minimum knowledge, they may not be able to, if they do not get, say, individual assistance to enable them to do so. From tomorrow on, however, parents will pay for this in private schools implementing the public programme. That's what parents are gonna pay for because it's the government, because the coalition's gonna want it that way. From this point of view, the bill discriminated against both children and parents between state and non-state schools. Children described in public school will continue to have individual and group learning assistance without parental support, additional education, optional selection content. While parents of children enrolled in Montessori school will have to pay extra if they want to attend extra education, individual study aid and meet minimum standards. The draft law will place the financial burden on the Government to implement the extended programme on parents. How will parents of socially weak families manage this? In this part, if not elsewhere, you will trigger the elitistization of these schools or the fact that only those who will be able to attend these schools will be able to attend. Without sighing, dear colleagues, but the parents who have their children enrolled there today do not pay individual aid, do not pay supplementary lessons, from tomorrow they will have to do so. So, for them, the tuition will be so much higher. Let me also point out the cases that have already been reported by the proponents of the proposed law, namely the financing of private schools first, when the Constitutional Court said that the extended programme should not be financed. If you read well the 2001 Constitutional Decision and now or from 2014, you will see quite a difference. The one in 2001 talked about the first paragraph that education is free, she talked, I think, about Article 74 of the ZOFVI, about whether public space is protected from, I'll say, religious education. And found that the law was consistent with the Constitution and that this protection existed. While talking about funding from 2014 and the 25th point of its decision also states: "The right to visit a compulsory public education programme of primary education does not require the country to finance the implementation of superstandard or extended programmes with which private schools pursue their interests in part." And it refers to the 2001 decision. Therefore, the Constitutional Court clearly and loudly states that the content of private schools pursuing partisan interests is not financed. Today we were able to hear at a meeting that some schools, now I do not know exactly what they are, in the lower classes they have additional dance exercises, singing exercises, culture and religion and Latin. And that's what parents are paying for right now. Because it follows the partisan interests of this school. They're already paying today. But they don't pay for individual learning aid. The financing of partisan interests is not subject and must not be subject to school funding, and we say this several times in the Slovenian Party. Superstandard activities, which are also financed in public schools, are financed by additional schools in nature and so on, so that we pay certain things in public schools as well. There are reports that we want to tear down the public network. Fellow Members, I do not know if you have really read the entire ZOFVI, probably not because Article 11 of the ZOFVI sets out what a public network is, namely, for the purpose of public service in the field of education and education, a public network consisting of public education and schools, private kindergartens and schools and private individuals with concessions is organised. And you're saying we want to dismantle the public network now. You have public schools in the public network, and you have private schools. It's like health care, we have a concessionaire, and we have health homes. So the public network already covers private schools. Who's gonna break this public network down now? Nobody. That's more like it, I'll say, in the heads of those who don't want to understand certain things. Then there are also indications that schools are being funded and that private people will now be rich. Once again, I think my colleagues have already told me, the school is not financed, it is not financed by the founder. This money provided by the State is financed by the programme implemented in this private school. And there's no private funding. Every month citizens pay their contribution to education from their private incomes, pay and expect to have, in accordance with Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a free choice of education and that the public programmes in force will be financed 100% regardless of where their child attends school or who is the founder of the school. Today, with the possible implementation of the bill proposed by the Government, the Republic of Slovenia is in violation of its free choice of education, as it forces parents to enroll their children in state schools, even though this is contrary to their personal circumstances. If a country which wants to regulate all areas of human life today is to be credible, it must also allow for education and education of the concept of montessori of school, Waldorf school or Catholic school and allow them to carry out a publicly valid programme approved by the professional council of the Ministry of Education and in accordance with the legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Only one comment, as far as the law is concerned and as the Minister has pointed out today, is the amendment to Article 86, where private schools are required to be able to establish or operate under specific conditions, the following conditions, including the inclusion or entry of at least two sections of the first class, because the Ministry wants socialisation. I'd like to ask the Minister, he has the opportunity to tell us how many public schools he has or doesn't have two first classes. In my birthplace, there's a school where all nine years is one grade. And you're talking about socialization. Then tell me how to socialize children in a branch school where 8 children are in the classroom and are not 35 in each. I think that such arguments are that you want socialization, for the hair. In fact, you want to make this condition even more acute or prevent the opening of new alternative schools, which are, of course, alternative to the state and state education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. As the last position of the LMŠ Group, Mr Aljaž Kovacič will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have a good public network of primary schools which is accessible to every child in almost every place in the Republic of Slovenia. There were thousands of children going through this school who are doing different professions in Slovenia and abroad today. The quality of public schools is also discussed in research that, according to the achievements of students and students, rules are placed at the very top of participating educational systems, even in some cases in front of systems to which we want to compare ourselves. But even though we have excellent public education, there is again a topic before us that has been repeatedly populist and ideologically abused. Some even went so far as to file constitutional charges against the Prime Minister. Why? Since a proposal had not been adopted which envisaged 100 % of the financing of the private primary school programme, it was more than obvious that this was just another populism gesture by the proposer. Let us not forget that the Government had already advocated the implementation of the Constitutional Decision. We would like to point out that we have a very good and successful public network of primary schools, but unfortunately we are forgetting this or we may feel that we are self-evident. It saddens us that in recent years there has been more than obvious momentum after the evaluation of the public school. On the other hand, a private school cannot in any way be the same as a public school. A private school is set up by a group of equal thinkers, here we can talk about religious or philosophical beliefs, about specific teaching principles, about providing stricter discipline, a different view of the world, and we could also list. While public school is a space of common fundamental values and diversity, it ensures the cultural identity and social integrity of future generations. The public school offers a quality and ideologically neutral program. Parents of children who do not fit can choose private schools for various reasons with special interests that correspond to their values. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has drawn up a proposal for a law which, according to the assurances of Minister Jernej Pikal, implements the Constitutional Court decision, as it provides the primary school with 100% funding for the compulsory work of the public programme. Nevertheless, some went so far before the first hearing that they put themselves in the role of the Constitutional Court and spoke of unconstitutionality. In the Letter of Marjan Šarc, we are open to a constructive and non-ideological debate, which could be complemented, if necessary, by the initial proposal of the law. However, we certainly do not buy an argument that this is a small number of private schools and a low financial contribution, because in this case it is not a question of money, but a system that provides every child with quality and accessible education, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, social position, political or any other belief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. As the first to receive the word, Mr Predrag Baković, and to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u136	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Public education in our country is one of the last well-groomed and functioning areas that makes no difference between children and their parents. For all have the same right to education, which is not, or at least is not, decisively linked to the financial situation of parents. So those who are socially at risk also have comparable opportunities, like others, to acquire adequate education and thereby improve their social status. This, Your Honor, is the most precious silver we have in our country. Therefore, it must not be sold, donated, or lost. I believe that the presence of private schools in our country can also be a nail in a baptized public school. For if public education dies and gets private power, they will immediately manifest insurmountable differences between people and those most threatened, they will be robbed of the last chance to improve their quality of life through education. I would also like to draw attention to the ideological component of private education. The Constitution, more specifically Article 7, states that the State and the religious communities are separate. This needs to be understood in a broader sense and context, because where the exercise of State duties is concerned and education is certainly not a place for implementation, although there is no room for implementation, even with the Constitution of guaranteed rights to religious activities, religious activities, whatever. It is also important that the rules of the game for both types of schools, both private and public, are not the same. If you look closely at the law, you find 15 differences, which are quite significant, or the benefits that private schools have compared to public schools. One is that the public school must carry out 18 compulsory programs or subjects over 9 years, while the law requires only 9 compulsory subjects for private school — one of the natural sciences, one of the social sciences, one of the arts. It is also not necessary for private schools to take account of the school calendar and it is not subject to the rules on the verification and evaluation of knowledge. Privately, it is already predetermined that the subject of a foreign language is only English, while the public school has a set of four foreign languages. Neither does private school need a curriculum and school rules. And what is very important is that a private school is allowed to choose which child will be given education and who will not. These are facts that we don't talk about much. I'd like to warn you about another one. In accordance with the legislation, parents have the right to educate their children at home, but they do not receive funds for work that are intended otherwise for those who can exercise this right within the system. Moreover, these students are also subject to regular examination of knowledge, once a year in public primary school, and this is also a real test of the effectiveness of the implementation of a publicly valid programme in the home environment. This is also a kind of unequal treatment. Finally, it is also right to make public information on how many private primary schools are received from the Ministry of Justice. The data I will now give are from the 2016 ERAR application and are even higher for 2017 and 2018. The Waldorf School in Ljubljana is about a million 600, i.e. for primary school activities totalling 2 million 200, and a music and secondary school is included. St. George's Office. Stanislava, Aloyza Šustára Ljubljana Elementary School about 1.2 million, the entire institution, which includes a high school, a music school, kindergarten and a student home, received 4 million 200 and several euros this year. Montessori Institute to Help Parents Develop Children 382 000 €. Waldorf Maribor School almost 500 000 euros. Anton Martina Slomška Maribor Educational Institute, Montessori Primary School between EUR 50 and EUR 60 000, or it began operating in 2015/2016, for the whole activity, especially high school, music school and a student home for EUR 800,000. Thus, today, with the proposed amendments to the law, we are implementing the 2014 Constitutional Decision. I do not distinguish between public and private education, and we are obliged to protect public primary education while at the same time setting clear criteria for financing private school curricula from public funding. With regard to the findings of the views of the groups of Members, notably by NSI, that the novel will bring more burden on the parents who are so poor that they will no longer be able to afford private education, to tell you that I do not personally know any poor person who attends a private school. Finally: On the one hand we have an interested public, these are parents of children who attend a private school, teachers, owners of these schools, some who say that the law is bad or the law proposal is bad, unconstitutional, illegal. On the other hand, we have the rest of the public who express their views in comments under the news and on social networks that we are considering this law today in the State Dent. I'd like you to read these comments. These are favored novels. More, actually! Comments even go in the direction if someone wants something special, different than good for most people, to pay out of their pocket. Judge for yourself whose people are more and whose will is in the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Iva Dimic, and Mr Tomaž Lisec is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u138	Your Honor! The fact is that the law is not suitable for further consideration, that it is unconstitutional, easy to abuse children and their parents by this law. That's a fact. That it is not in the spirit of equal, equal education for all alike. But most of all, this division is my compulsory and extra program in some elementary school. This has been an act for me since the beginning. That some complementary education is above the standard of primary school. I didn't know that I was in the middle of my primary school curriculum. I really didn't know. And so to seek and share the Slovenes, children, it seems simple to me, in one word only, the minister is incompetent. Because if the minister were capable, he would be able to work for the children. The Minister is incompetent, simply unable to deal with violence in primary schools. Also with sexual violence in the past, sexual assault was in primary school. The Minister was unable, I did not see any action to say that he would prevent it. The only measure is for security guards to primary school. Now tell me whether the security guards in primary schools are above standard or whether this is a mandatory programme paid by citizens. And I ask, Mr. Secretary, how many elementary schools in Slovenia have security guards? And how many private schools are there, six of them, security guards? Please, for that information, I believe as a minister you like to know every minute. You weren't able to handle it either, but I already asked you a question in 2013 about national knowledge checks. What's going to happen to that? The simple matter is still hanging in the air and you still haven't drawn up any new perspectives on what will be the national knowledge check in primary school. You're talking about free education. What free schooling? For two children in the first triad, free schooling is every September 600 Euros without bags, no slippers, just work volumes and notebooks? Dear Minister, where there is a lack of expertise, the ideology comes to the fore. I believe that this subject brings positive ratings to the Social Democrats, and you've put little Levice aside, so you're probably getting this account because you're so committed to public education. Just like you're advocating for a social state. For ten years, you have advocated a social state, and there have been more and more poor people in this country. I don't understand that you don't want to do the work that comes to you as Minister. I am also thinking about what is being pointed out by school or children's parliaments – they want more content, life content. What has changed to get more of these in elementary school? Unfortunately, I didn't see anything this way. And one more thing. Today it was already in certain positions, I think colleague Rajić has highlighted what will happen to children with special needs. Do you have any idea how many there are? What's the curve? The decision is issued by the Institute of Education in Gotski, Ljubljana, perhaps in Maribor, but we belong to the county of Ljubljana, and it says how much to a certain child due to dyslexia or hyperactivity or any other disturbance belongs to additional hours of professional assistance. You're the one who just said it was super standard. Is it superstandard that you have children and that you can't influence what you have? From this point of view, it seems to me that there is too much ideological struggle in your eyes or in your heart and that it would be slow, however, Minister, to start working for the parents, for the children, and especially to have a really high-quality school. As far as free school is concerned. Sweden has free schools or no work volumes are paid there. These are your promises. And when you don't have something to show after one year, it's the easiest thing to do with one of these solutions, flat and, of course, unconstitutional, to come before people, to the public. Of course, the public is interested in how the Minister will define himself, but it seems to me that such an action is not worth the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the next word to prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! The key question that we should raise today is very simple. Will the Members of this Assembly respect this booklet, which is called the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, or will we not respect the Constitution? According to the views of the coalition's parliamentary groups, i.e. all six parties, the Constitution is not a serious document that should be respected in the first place by members of the National Assembly, regardless of where we come from or what our knowledge is. The constitution is clear. The subject we are talking about today is quite clear and simple. The second paragraph of Article 57 states: “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” And this should be respected and also enforced and applied. And since this has not been applied, parents who have children in private schools have decided to challenge in the Constitutional Court the legal dictatorship which is in the Law in the organisation and financing of education and education. And look at the fraction, 4. 12. In 2013 the Constitutional Court simply ruled, the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 2, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is incompatible with the Constitution. In short, we are not talking about parents or children in private schools, what their wishes are, but we are talking about the decision of the Constitutional Court, which issued its position in the decision. Clearly, the law is in the work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes in breach of the Constitution. The four and a half years left in the National Assembly do not want to respect the Constitutional Court’s decision — and apparently they will not do so today, a little later — even though we have tried to introduce a law in the SDS Group five times to regulate this unconstitutionality. We've given the ministers of the previous government an interview, we've given the current Prime Minister a constitutional indictment because he doesn't respect the constitution. But not only will the unconstitutional state be extended, it will even worsen by the diction of the words in the law that we have before us today. And if, honourable Members, you don't know what nonsense you're going to take, I'm going to read you some lines from the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation, which is a legal body, otherwise a consultative body of the Government. I quote: "With regard to the proposed third paragraph of amended Article 86 of the Law, we note that the initiators who have succeeded in the previous initiative will be given the proposed arrangement for the financing of private primary schools in a worse legal situation than they are in accordance with the current regulation for which they have submitted the initiative to the Constitutional Court." Today I received a Latin sentence on the table, Reformio and peius – the legal position of the investor in the Constitutional Court should not deteriorate. Law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: "With the proposed arrangement for the financing of private primary schools, the initiators will be in a worse legal situation." “This means that for private schools, the scope of public funding does not change according to the regulation in force. Such an arrangement places private schools in an unequal position, without any legal justification for such an act being given. In addition, such an arrangement is also disputed from the point of view of Article 57(2) of the Constitution, which provides that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” But today, what does the minister say? By means of this law, we have consistently implemented the Constitutional Court's decision. In short, either the policy on behalf and surname of the Minister of Education is lying or the Government, under the leadership of Marjan Sarca, should immediately dissolve the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation, because there are obviously incompetent lawyers there, citing that the initiators who have succeeded with the constitutional complaint will be in a worse legal position. And probably the same will be written by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which in 2018, in our case, I think the fourth attempt of the law reads: “Let us assume that the proposal for a law removes the finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57.” But why would we have a Constitutional Court in Slovenia, why would we have lawyers if we had a majority part of the policy that goes to law and to the Constitutional Court. [[…]] For you, in view of today's implementation, I propose a further step in decommissioning the rule of law, which began in the previous mandate. Cancel the Constitutional Court because you don't respect it when you don't like it. Yesterday a new constitutional judge was appointed here. What praises you gave to the Constitutional Court and what role should constitutional judges play in the Slovenian system. Today you will pass the ruling of the Constitutional Court, once again, on that Constitutional Court you sang him praises yesterday. On this occasion, I would remind the distinguished minister once again of what he said at the time of his oath: “I swear I will respect constitutional order.” Look at the fragment, everyone says he won't respect it. Not only will he continue the unconstitutional state, he will make it worse. As I have heard today: What is the point of having a Constitutional Court? Is there any point in respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is normal for a parliamentary democracy? Or is the sense of the Constitutional Court that the authorities want to get rid of it, or at least those decisions that are not in their ideological will? That is all we ask ourselves is whether we wish to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court or not. And here's the difference in this national council. Some of us believe that this is for Members of Parliament, the legislative branch of power and the executive branch of the government of the world of books. Others feel that this is a list of desires that can be overrun according to ideology. And I have said many times in this National Assembly: How can we expect citizens to respect the Constitution and the laws if the Members are the first to be called, but those where the majority do not respect the Constitution or the laws? Tell that to the people in your office when they say that they have been wronged, where they have done something beyond the law without knowing it, or the system has done something past them and on their shoulders. Today, quite a few things have been said — the protection of public education. Six private primary schools and, I think, 445 state primary schools. Tell me, so mathematically, professionally, not least politically, what you're afraid of, if you're afraid, six private schools is the way to decommission the public. On the contrary. Six private primary schools are the minimum that enriches public education. And our wish should be – what? More private schools, more competition and more quality. But since this is not in line with the doctrine and ideology of the consecrated left side of the National Assembly and the executive branch of government, this will not happen, because certain parties in this National Assembly understand exactly what it is that, if they have allowed at least 2% of the competition into the school system, they are afraid that this ideology of their existence can begin to crack. That is why we are hearing today about the decommissioning of public education. We even hear about how free public education is, we have heard earlier in the position of social democrats. Respected citizens, respectable citizens, I ask that the next time you get your ticket, you come to your nearest SD Member or maybe anyone else in the coalition to split it and pay your bills, at least for those bills that speak of publicly valid programmes that parents have to pay. We are not talking about superstandards, but this does not include morning protection, supplementary education and all that. We are talking about the classic, standard contributions that every parent pays, in your opinion, to this free education. Today we even heard this, yes, 5:4 was the majority and this majority is not good. We had one vote yesterday, I think it was 38 for and 39 for. Has the majority won or not with 39 votes? She won. I believe we all respect that vote. But look at the fraction, but five to four is questionable, and that's not fair. This is a political decision of the Constitutional Court. Give me three judges who belong to the right-hand political gender, and I'll buy you a beer. Three, not five, as you say, are supposed to be right-wing political constitutional experts. The more and more radical constitutional judges we receive, the ones who will first give us a tip so that we can no longer speak. You are talking about the political decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, which is ideologically left, has made a political decision. If any constitutional judge has made a political decision and not an expert decision, please immediately invite him to take a step through the Constitutional Court's corridor and leave the Constitutional Court. It was said, ah, but this decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 is quite different from that of the 2001 Constitutional Court. That's not true. See what the initiators defended in 2001 in the Constitutional Complaint and what in 2013. That's when it was the whole vertical. And he himself would have a problem with implementation if, then, in 2001, the Constitutional Court said, yes, the state had to finance everything in private, from kindergarten to high school programs and everything else. But why is this decision different? Article 57, paragraph 2, makes primary education compulsory. Here's the key point. And what do we get today after five failed attempts at marriage, interpretation, and constitutional charges? Another failed left-wing policy project. A new falsified left-wing policy project that, in its previous mandate, even tried to play the Constitutional Court decision by trying to change the Constitution. So much for respect for the rule of law, the rule of law, the Constitutional Court on the left hand side of politics. Full of mouths about the rule of law, full of mouths about how important the Constitutional Court is. But when it comes to action, we are in pain for the rule of law, and we will undermine the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Full of words, beautiful, on the other hand, full of corrupt acts in practice. And it is also a very interesting thought when Minister Pikalo says: “The decisions of the Constitutional Court are consistently implemented.” On Monday, however, when colleague Pavlin, if I remember correctly, I think he asked the President of the Government about the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, and he said, "Yes, but if something is wrong with this decision, we will deal with the amendments." The Prime Minister says if anything is wrong, we'll settle it and the Minister says it's happening consistently. If something is happening consistently, then there is no longer a little left to the right here, a little bit to the bottom, as was the case with the previous bill drafted by former Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, when members of the coalition on the committee quoted me as saying 185, they quickly recalled in SMC, 165, I think that the proposal was SD, 100 : 0, I think that was Desus' proposal, but no solution is in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Since the Constitutional Court is talking about public programmes, the solution is only one – 100% funding of public programmes, without nebulos about mandatory and widespread content. Here, too, colleague Jelka Godec showed you some of the provisions of the articles from ZOFVI and the Basic School Act, what one means in practice and what your spelling is. Speaking of public school and public network. 11. Article ZOFVI: "For the provision of public education and education services, a public network consisting of public schools and schools, private schools and schools and individuals with concessions shall be organised." So, what's a public network? Public kindergartens and schools, private kindergartens and schools, and individuals with concessions. You know, my friend Tonin used to show me what this was all about. But for you, it's only a certain part of public, obviously. It says here, private kindergartens and schools. Continue: “The public network of kindergartens must be organised in such a way as to enable parents and children to have access to and choose a programme for preschool children, and the public network of primary schools must provide all children with the possibility of primary education.” And what do we get instead? In addition to a splinter called ZOFVI, which will continue the unconstitutional state, we get a draft of the Kindergarten Act, where the private decommissioning continues. And in the drawer, Minister Pikalo also has a proposal for a law on higher education, which also continues to decompose the private by preventing the establishment of a private college. And we have a proposal from the Left to end private health care. I expect that once you've abolished private schools, kindergartens, health care, in the spirit of your leftist manner, you will end your private property. This is the last step you are allowed to take, given that you have a majority, perhaps even sooner. And instead of a successful success story, we'll get the second and apparently only heir to North Korea. Venezuela is falling apart, Cuba is falling apart, and North Korea and Slovenia will obviously be the only country to delete anything private everywhere. Dear Minister, I hope that in the spirit of what you said at the time of your appointment, you will respect the constitutional order and, before the end of today's debate, you will propose to vote against the law tomorrow and to come to the National Assembly with a law that will respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. For if you do not do so, you will not only get the earring of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, first of all you will get the initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 86 of the ZOFVI, probably by parents who have come to the Council in mass today, where the left leg of left-wing Members and the left-wing executive authorities have not dared to step forward and hear real stories, real people, not those stories about free public education, to see how your policy has been flawed and how your proposal for a law is flawed. In short, this marriage is about three things. One is the ideology of left-wing power that opposes anything that at least smells a little private. This law introduces discrimination, which results in elitism, because after this bill the average parents who put children in private schools will be excluded, because they will no longer have to afford it, but it is likely that the children of those who yell most loudly against private primary schools – the children of rich, especially left-wing politicians – will be able to come to these private schools. Last but not least, today was said, we need to talk about children and schools and not as a system. But you work from children and from education and training programs clean business. A few more things were said today. The church is coming to private schools. Of the six private schools there are two churches, two where she is the founder of the church. And that's where parents pay exactly what Mrs Masha Kociper said earlier, and if they want something more, let them pay something more. If Mrs Maša Kociper had been at the meeting today, I would have heard how parents pay more for complementary activities in these private schools and give up, as has been said, not going on a trip to France, but going on a trip somewhere closer because they wish that their children were not on the worse in the field of education. But I do believe that someone who is difficult to get large circles into small circles does not understand such simple cases as the Constitutional Court's decision, which states that a decree on public school programmes should be duly recorded in the law. And finally, the former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar, a man who was considered to be a constitutional lawyer who, on a daily or weekly basis, proves to be bluffing about his knowledge of the law, which proves to him weekly that he has violated the laws and the rule of law, this poor gentleman will not be able to sleep again, for in 2015 he said he would not be able to sleep, that he would be unhappy until the Constitutional Court's decision was implemented. How should I sleep because, without the Constitutional Court ruling being implemented, it will further aggravate the situation of those who, when visiting them, have assured them how he, as a lawyer, will solve this? Today, however, it seems that it commands its Members to continue with this unconstitutionality. In short, the reasons why we cannot support this law at first reading is at least as many children who go to private schools as you will continue to discriminate against them. You will discriminate against those who speak of the rule of law, and you will not give these children what the Constitutional Court has given them – that they have the same position in certain matters as those who attend State primary schools that are compulsory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for yours. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Do you want to be procedural? It's a replica or something. [[advertising from the hall]] If you give me a chance to talk, I'll talk. The replica is not possible because you have not yet spoken, because you know the Rules of Procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] But procedurally, it's possible. Your word, stand up and say it, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'm up. I'll tell you now. It's a delusion. I have to warn you about that. In fact, in the previous term, Prime Minister Miro Cerar did everything he could to make this decision come true and, in fact, until before the elections, he indicated that we would achieve it. So I think it is baseless and unjustifiable to comment in this way, but no one is telling Members how they will react and judge. In this respect, it is also unfair for a colleague of Lisca to conclude his debate in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u143	Your Honor, you have now abused the procedural proposal. There was no procedural proposal. Please don't do this again. Anybody else want to take advantage of anything? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Then it's mag's turn. Meira Hot, Mr Miha Kordišek and Mr Alexander Reberšek are ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Article 2 of the Constitution states, “Slovenia is a legal and social state.” And in Slovenia, the highest authority of the judiciary is the Constitutional Court. And you know, it's only the Constitutional Court that is competent to judge constitutionality and legality. It is therefore a complete ignorance to me how opposition parties today, but the Priories, may feel that the proposed amendment to the law is unconstitutional and does not give effect to the right decision of the Constitutional Court. Of course it's unacceptable. Thus, in 2014, the Constitutional Court decided that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is inconsistent with the Constitution. Why? Since it does not fully finance compulsory primary education or ensure the implementation of a publicly valid primary education programme to all providers in the same way. The scope of State funding, the implementation of publicly applicable programmes, is different, which according to the Constitutional Court is not in accordance with Article 57(2), which provides that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. However, it is still appropriate to draw attention to the separate opinion of Judge Korpič Horvat, which states that it is not possible to claim unequal treatment and interference with the right of children to publicly funded primary education, since in her view the State provides a public network of primary education, which includes private schools with concessions, and thus does not double-check its obligation under Article 57(2). It is also interesting to note that the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, which commands primary education to be compulsory, in fact means that parents are obliged to ensure that their children attend a publicly valid primary school programme. And I also believe that this is the true spirit of the provision in question. As well as creating a child's obligation to be educated, to have primary school education, as you probably remember: primary school is compulsory, secondary education is a choice, at least this is how our high school teachers always commanded us. The Republic of Slovenia has an extremely quality system and a network of public schools. And I am very proud of my piranha elementary school, which I attended. I had extraordinary teachers, free choice of many interesting activities. This school even became part of the UNESCO School Network very early. And I think I have received a truly quality education, which was accessible to everyone in the congregation of Piran, regardless of the status or financial situation of their parents. That is the essence of today's debate. This is not about the existence of private schools. These can also mean a quality complement to the public network of primary education. I can also understand the parents' desire to offer their children a different type of education, a different programme, a different pedagogical approach. It's their free choice. But you know, this choice isn't really accessible to everyone. For example, for reasons of geographical distance. In the municipality of Piran, parents cannot afford this choice unless they travel every day 105 kilometers to Ljubljana to the nearest private school. So this free choice isn't really free. But that's not even the point. The real question and our goal is to keep the education we received in public schools of the same quality or to strive for even higher quality. The development of the country should further enhance the quality. And this should always be accessible to everyone, regardless of their personal circumstances. You know, in the world, high-quality primary schools are an exception to the rule. Privatisation of such a public service actually leads to a very severe social dispersion, and I think our young people really do not deserve it. Our young people deserve the best possible education, quality, and we must look forward to it. In doing so, we should not be confined to the financial situation of our parents. This, in my view, is the duty of the State to ensure the implementation of a mandatory public programme that is accessible to all. We should fight for the rights of children and parents in public schools. Why aren't we talking about them? Do they deserve a lower quality priority because they may not actually have a choice, as I said before, because perhaps the nearest private school is too expensive for them? Dearly beloved, it is with this complete equalization of the public and private system that the decommissioning of the public system is actually beginning, and this is unacceptable. Public primary school is public and private. If you want a different education than the one provided by the state, pay for it. That's the way it is around the world. Private schools in England do not even consider any 100 % of public funding. And in my opinion, the question that we really should ask ourselves today is the one that you have raised several times from the opposition – Is primary education really accessible to all under the same conditions in Slovenia? Is it really free? And we also know that there is no de facto. This calls for a solution, which requires the activation of all of us. In Slovenia, there are many children on the brink of poverty whose parents cannot afford a school in nature, they cannot buy work volumes, textbooks, school supplies. This is worrying and alarming and should be discussed here today. Therefore, I also welcome the decision of the Minister, who decided and made it possible for school textbooks in the 1st and 2nd classes to be free with September. That's the right step forward. And the same should apply to all classes of primary school, and I know that this is also the aim of the minister and that we aim to do so. These are measures to ensure that primary education is truly accessible to all. We should talk about this today. If we return to the draft law at first reading, which actually implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 and removes the non-compliance of Article 86 of the ZOFVI with the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution. In that decision, the Constitutional Court found that the legal regime restricting the proportion of co-financing of a public programme in private schools to 85 % was inconsistent with the Constitution and imposed on the National Council to remedy that non-compliance. However, it did not impose what percentage of funding should be, nor did it impose on the implementation of the decision in question. The Constitution grants students the right to attend the compulsory public education programme free of charge, regardless of whether it is carried out by a public legal entity or by a private body. Today, the bill removes what was most evident from the constitutional decision-makers. It therefore eliminates the fundamental injustice in the financing of a compulsory public education programme in private schools where, in addition to the contribution to additional non-standard content, parents had to pay 15 % of the funding for the implementation of mathematics, Slovenian, foreign language and other subjects of the public curriculum. In short, the publicly applicable compulsory primary school programmes will be financed by 100 %, regardless of whether they are implemented in a public or private school. This will respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and ensure equal treatment of public compulsory primary school programme providers, which the State must implement in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, it is important to point out that the applicant has also set a nine-year transitional period, which had not been observed in previous proposals. Thus, no one will be harmed and will not interfere with the rights already acquired. The funding conditions will therefore continue to apply exactly as before for nine years. And in my opinion, this will make it more than enough for justice as well as for legal security and for the public. That is why, of course, I will support the proposal for a law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. You have the floor, Mr Miha Kordish, and Mr Alexander Reberšek will be prepared and then Mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today's proposal for financing private schools takes place in the shadow of the Constitutional Court's decision or more specifically the political decision of the political court. It is eloquent that the same court amended the 2001 judgment on virtually the same content. What changed in the middle? Members of the Constitution? No, no, no. The occupation of the Constitutional Court has changed. And how did that happen? For the past ten years or more, the Liberal Centre has concluded pacts with a political parliamentary right and is buying their votes in a way that calls them Constitutional Judges. And today the situation is that the Constitutional Court is wearing quite a few yellow ties. In fact, more than a parliamentary right is the responsibility of the liberal centre, which consisted of the last few governments. If I go to the content. Why do socialists have such a problem with private education? Because private education pursues a private interest, otherwise the activity of education would not be carried out at all. Why would I do that anyway? Because there is a private interest here from behind – Why should this private interest be financed from public funds? Private education, though, is a known tool of generation self-recruitment of the ruling class. It creates a separate environment where the younger generation of the ruling class can get to know, connect, strengthen these contacts, make romantic acquaintances even if you want, and receive a better education than the rest of society, such as working-class children. Then, with such education, with such social networks, cultural capital, supported by the ties of its privileged parents, the next generation of the ruling class takes over or sometimes inherits key positions of power in society, in politics, in the media, in the economy. And from there he carries out his mastership and his class interest on the whole society. The privatisation of education in Slovenia also exposes us to the threat of getting one education system for the rich and other education system for everyone else. Public funding for private schools is an institutional framework that promotes this self-recruitment of the ruling class, which helps to expose it. But since Slovenia is a small country, the effects of this are not so visible. But if you want to see where this is going to happen, you can look around in some other Western countries, like the United States of America. And this danger is also open to us through private education, in particular private education driven by public funds. However, where we can follow these mechanisms of self-recruitment more tangiblely, it is more obvious that in self-recruitment of the right spectrum of the political class, which establishes a whole set of its parallel institutions and also tries to partially hang them on public finances, kindergartens, education, primary education, secondary education, higher education, their economic networks. Here, however, there is a purely ideological self-recruitment of the right-wing power network in Slovenian society. And private schools here play a vital role because of what they create a place where they can meet, reestablish romantic contacts, create families of good Catholic children from good Catholic families. And in this way, some kubagi neutral or external instance establishes some kind of tender framework that hangs in favor of maintaining the Catholic spirit among certain families of certain beliefs. But if this were to remain only on a private level, there would be no problem in this, because this is an informal, semi-formal network that serves as a base, as a right-wing rebound, from which it then takes or tries to take key levers of power and power in Slovenian society. But all these networks, as we say, informal, semiformal, family, science, friendships, begin with an institutional framework, which is a Catholic private school. And this is done by the Slovenian right hand with a strong backing of the Roman Catholic Church and all the infrastructure of the Roman Catholic Church systematically, planned and purposefully. If you don't believe me, I will quote you from the former Dean of Theological Faculty of Dr. Guestčnik, who, in spite of saying the following to the Theological Faculty, quote: “We are educating future priests who will evangelize this world in the future.” End of quote. Here it is, holding the Slovenian right hand with the back of the Roman Catholic Church to education. And all that we are hearing now about private education, how it is necessary to support it, what injustice to do with attempts to hold private schools to the wings of public finances is, in fact, only a poor coverage of the purely political or ideological interest of the Slovenian right after carrying out the recapitulation of Slovenian society. Rekonquist. After all, we can reach out after the quote of current Minister Pikal: "On one side since the time of Mary Teresa they have fought to completely separate the school and the church, and now slowly in two decades in Slovenia the church returns directly to the school system. Be careful, it is not about isolated steps, but about some random things, but about a long-term, well-thought-out strategy." End of quote. And when Mr Pikalo said that, of course, he was right. And I also mentioned this quote a few months ago when we were talking about the Theological Faculty, we were voting about it, and unfortunately, a number of social-democrats took a step ahead of this church interest, but I don't think that's the case with the novel ZOFVI. However, I think that this novel does not go far enough and that Mr Pikalo comes from the wrong strategy and from the wrong starting points, because he takes merodically, I say again, the political decision of a political court with yellow ties. I wouldn't do it that way myself. If I finish. In Levica we advocate a complete separation of public and private, including a change of constitution. We have also tried this in the previous term. Unfortunately, somehow there was not enough obedience and willingness to actually do so. But due to the function of private schools in this specific Slovenian area of self-recruitment of the Slovenian right as some basis for the attempt of the Catholic republican society, I personally think that it is necessary to take a step forward and fully abolish private schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Procedurally, and I believe you won't abuse him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I never abuse procedural proposals. I ask you, on a procedural basis, to remind our colleague or comrade Miho Kordiš, who, if you, Mr President, have listened well, here has been offended by religious feelings. Somehow he mocked and spoke, good Catholic children from good Catholic families. You, too, Mr President, may have been a minister once. I don't know if you've been touched. I'm a Catholic. Are we on the agenda, Mr. President, of the Religious Freedom Act, or is religious freedom in this country at all? And I ask you to stop and condemn such debates as the first of the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u149	Procedural number two. We've got enough time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you, Chairman. And I suggest you reject the initiative of your colleague Horvath. Indeed, this initiative has been given in bad faith, has not been given in good faith and has been given as an attempt at substantive accounting by means of a procedural proposal. For I have explicitly pointed out that these are strategies implemented by right-wing instances of power on the infrastructure of the Roman Catholic Church, and again explicitly separated this from private individual and different religious sentiments. In short, it's not about religion, it's about power. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u151	Will you be the easiest Member to speak with if you still have a procedural proposal? Okay. Then I feel like we're done, because otherwise we'll get to the confession. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, and I didn't take it. And I'm asking you, do we get to confession or do we move on? [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you. I am not fooling myself, as I know that both Members and Members of Parliament do not make a fool of each other today. Let us proceed. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the word, the mags are being prepared. Marko Koprivc and Mrs Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Most people follow politics for less than two minutes a day and do not understand why it actually works. They hear the words in public and in private. And in our public domain, it is considered good, but in private, it is considered bad. In fact, all the schools we talk about today are public schools. The programme at a non-governmental school is the same as at a state school, taught by the same qualified teachers and students must eventually achieve the same standards of knowledge as those of the national schools. Explain to me why we must then make differences in the financing of the public programme of non-governmental schools. Non-governmental schools with programmes that have gained public validity represent a wealth of school space rather than a threat to the public network. Non-governmental schools themselves will ensure the construction of the entire infrastructure and its permanent maintenance. The country should therefore be interested in having as many schools as possible. Let me stress that in Slovenia we have 6 non-governmental primary schools, which are attended by less than 1% of all students, and do not accidentally threaten the state school. Many of the good practices or teaching principles of non-governmental people are introduced by teachers in public schools and thus enriching them. Even at the Faculty of Education, they offer subjects that are familiar with these teaching principles. Why? Parents of children in non-governmental schools pay for extra-standards, which is understandable and normal, but they will have to pay mornings and mornings as well as supplementary and additional education, which is not necessary for parents of children in state schools. Why do you share people on the shoulders of children and their parents? The coalition led by the SD has drafted a proposal for a law that completely distorts the Constitutional Court's decision, which has created it at all. Instead of regulating 100% of the funding of the public primary school programme, you have increased the difference. Tell me, who goes to court to get less? I'm also wondering what the problem is. The first objective of the coalition led by the SD is that non-governmental schools receive less than they have received before. The second objective is to ensure that no new non-governmental school is established following this proposal. And the third objective is money and tender. And look what you've done. The Ministry of Education has amended one article of the law and has introduced two categories of public programmes and those which have obtained a public programme solely for the purpose of exploiting them and separating schools from those to which only those with a public programme can apply, not those who have obtained a public programme. While your mouth is full of rights, acceptance of diversity, wealth of culture and social justice, Minister Pikalo is clearly acting against the Social Democratic Program. You're in favour of social justice, and at the same time, you'd only afford non-governmental schools to wealthy families. So you talk one thing, you work the other. You are also against the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation that reminds us of what we have been warning in Novi Slovenije all the time. The proposal is unconstitutional and contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court. And finally, why do you want to allow the entry only to go through with the reduction of funding? So, you support dispersion and elitism. While respect for the Constitution and for some primary schools is difficult to provide you with 300 000 euros, the state has provided half a million dollars to the Russian university, the branch of the Moscow State University. You work for Russian universities and at the same time against our citizens. I'd be ashamed. I cannot help but overlook the fact that, in the background of this story, the accumulation of political points is taking advantage of the advantage that most of the concepts are public rather than private. You're playing right on those cards. That is why you also convened a meeting of the National Assembly, although you could also convene a committee meeting where you would discuss the subject there, in order to make an even bigger show out of this, to collect political points because your ratings are growing completely understandable. You play the Constitutional Court's decision and are looking for solutions not to solve the problem in order to continue to share people. It's simple, share and rule. That's exactly what you're doing. The story is therefore intended to divide a nation that distracts attention from such long waiting lines in health care, poor and overtaxed wages, miserable pensions, a bank hole that swallowed millions, and your human resources appetites. In this country there is a problem of 300,000 euros for our citizens, for our children, but it is not a problem of money for TES 6, for the second track, to find a more expensive provider for the construction of the second tube of the Karavan tunnel, but also at this time for the payment of discharges, for which there is no problem with us, in our country. Why not go to tax, pension and health reforms at the same time? Why do you share the Slovenian people? I tell all citizens, be united and, if only possible, do not let politics divide you, because that is precisely the purpose of politics. Do not consent to artificial divisions because politics cares about government and benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr Member, for your presentation. There's been a change, for the Mag. You are Monika Gregorčič and then Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u154	Yes, thank you very much, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Something has already been said, and allow me to start a little joke a little bit to really answer my colleague Lisc's award-winning beer question. In fact, he called on his colleagues and colleagues to list at least three constitutional judges who belong to the so-called right-wing province, let's say. And I'm going to count three, maybe more, but still. The first is Mr Mozetič, a member of the SKD, the Slovenian Christian Democrats, the second Mr Jan Zobs, you probably know him, and Mr Mitja Deisinger, these two were signatories to Mr Arhar's candidacy for the mayor of Ljubljana, according to SDS, SLS and NSI. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, Now let's get to the point, to today's subject. I must personally commend the proposal that has been prepared by Minister Pical and the team. In fact, whatever the composition of the Constitutional Court, I think it is right that we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That's a fact. The Court must be respected. And also the Constitutional Court, and from this point of view, I think that, despite the fact that I have had many thoughts about certain judgments, this must be respected. That's over us. This specific judgment on the financing of private schools as well. The Minister was able to draw up a proposal which, on the one hand, I hope, meets the Constitutional Court's decision and, on the other hand, protects our public school system, which is very good for fellow citizens and colleagues. Comparative analyses also confirm this. It is very quality and is especially accessible to all, to all our citizens and citizens. And that's very, very important. That's essential. The public school system is distributed throughout the country, whether we live in Ljubljana or live in Lower Kungota, we can attend public schools. It is accessible to all, regardless of religious belief, ideological belief and so on and follows constitutional values. As it is said, this proposal has managed to protect the public school system while at the same time meeting the Constitutional Court's decision. More importantly, the proposal for amendments to the Law on Financing and Organising Education and Education has also been coalitionly coordinated and unanimously adopted by the Government. So I am confident that this necessary support will also be obtained in the National Assembly. It surprises me, however, that the representatives of the right are already trying to conclude in advance that this proposal is not in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s judgment. The Constitutional Court, it was clear. And I'm going to quote the decision so I don't think about it. Indeed, the dilemma is whether we are talking only about compulsory work or also about the extended work of the public programme. I will read the 20th recital of the judgment: "The right to freedom of education referred to in Article 27, paragraph 1, of the Constitution is limited at the level of primary education. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 37 of the Constitution, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. Since the benefits of compulsory basic education are not limited to the pupils themselves, but the basic education of the individual serves the public benefit at the same time, the Constitution also provided for its public funding. By doing so, she guaranteed the pupils the right to free compulsory primary education. Since the Constitution linked this constitutional right of pupils to their constitutional duty, public funding must be given to that primary school education which is compulsory for pupils. In modern democratic societies, the obligation is interpreted narrowly, as it relates only to the legal content of the education programme, but not to the education of the institution implementing the programme. The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution therefore grants pupils the right to visit the compulsory public education programme of primary education free of charge, irrespective of whether it is carried out by a public legal or private body.” That's it. She also assigned it to it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I believe you're funny, but it's not funny, that's facts. This was also supported by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, dated 2 November 2018, when it was asked whether the programme was compulsory or extended and the answer was clear. I'm not gonna quote the whole thing now. However, it should be pointed out that the number of initiators objected only to the extent of State resources to finance the functioning of primary education. [[…]] In this context, the Constitutional Court, in its decision, assessed only the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI in its work relating to the compulsory public education programme of primary education and only in the light of Article 57(2) of the Constitution and so on. In short, I don't think the dilemma here is that it is clear that we are talking about a compulsory part of primary education. You raise the question of choice. Surely every child has the right to choose, despite the fact that a very small proportion of children are enrolled in private primary schools, but the choice does not mean that if someone decides on a different, superstandard option, all funding by the State must be free of charge or guaranteed. And I believe, even though a few of these schools are Catholic and we know that the Catholic Church is well placed, it has its properties, money and so on, that they will not pass on these additional costs, as you say, to the students, but that they will provide some additional funds for that part of the program that is linked to their content. So here I think the concern is over. In fact, once again, we are talking in particular today about the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision and, with the assurances of the Ministry and Minister Pikal, the proposal for amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is also satisfactory. I would like to stress once again – let's talk about public schools, about how to improve public schools in Slovenia, which are excellent. The procedure will now be followed by the preparation of a new White Paper on education and education, where there will be a great deal of debate on improving the quality of public primary education in Slovenia. A few weeks ago, a measure was taken to transfer free textbooks into 2. Class, and I'm sure we should be working hard on these things to make the school even less expensive for our parents. Although public primary schools do not have tuition and are free of charge, there are still quite a few costs that fall on the shoulders of parents, and our task should be in this direction to improve these things. As a supplement, however, no one opposes the presence of private primary schools. I would only ask that we cultivate a patient debate and that we come together to a solution that is particularly good for our students and students, for our citizens and citizens, regardless of where they come from, what their confessions are and, after all, what their nationalities are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mrs. Godec, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I, the President, would ask, I do not know whether Comrade Koprivc or the Minister will respond to some of the deceptions and, apparently, some of the ambiguities that Mr Koprivc is spreading here today. I'd like to ask, President, if you could call either the minister or suggest they stop reading the law. In fact, I would ask first of all if the Minister could explain what is in the public school system or in the public school network, so that a colleague could understand what he is talking about or what I am not going to say, ambiguity or nonsense is now talking about the public network. So if he can tell us what a public school network is. Then on this difference, the compulsory public school programme and the public primary school programme, which is divided into compulsory and extended programmes. If, please, the Ministry of Affairs can explain and tell Mr Koprivec that, of course, the public programme of primary school is compulsory for all primary schoolchildren from this age to this age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. If I translate, you have made a procedural proposal for a government representative, a minister or anyone else to speak to, of course, he can respond to your proposal, but neither can he. I'm asking the minister, does he want to respond? He wants to respond later. He has that right, too. We're moving on. [[advertising from the hall]] No discussion, a procedural proposal may be made. [[advertising in the hall]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the subject is so serious that we can have a serious discussion ahead of us, so I would like to give the floor to the Member of Parliament, who is waiting for a word without a procedural proposal, which I understand is Mrs Monica Gregorčič, and Mr Željko Cigler and Mrs Tina Heferle will be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. To begin with, I would like to make it clear that I am not related to one of the main proponents of Dr. Peter Gregorčič's constitutional judgment, nor do I know him, nor have I ever been in contact with him, so that there will be no wrong assumptions. However, I certainly agree with some of his views or arguments, which have been publicly expressed and we have been able to track them in the media. Also, my children have never attended private kindergartens or schools. But we have a basic sense of justice and honesty that somehow requires me to make a few things clear today, and above all, I wish that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia could trust in our rule of law. First, I would return to the period of the previous mandate when SMC, with its Minister, sought to implement a constitutional decision and, of course, also endeavoured to clear the borders between public and private education. Our priorities were: to strengthen quality public education, public education must not become the centre of ideological and party disputes, but we have certainly sought to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, because it was a fundamental condition of a democratic and legal state for us. All of this was addressed to the Government in April 2017, adopted by the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The funding formula foreseen by this novel is 100:85. This formula foresees that a compulsory part of the programme is co-financed in a private school which has acquired the public validity of the programme by 100 % and that an extended part of the programme would be financed by the resulting 85% of public funding. In addition to this funding arrangement, the current novel ZOFVI contained other very important changes that regulated the relationship between public and private education. We in the SMC are certainly pleased that the majority of these solutions have been identified and taken into account and implemented by the current Minister in his current proposal. Unfortunately, in 2017, the legislative procedure first blocked the consideration of this bill. Unfortunately, neither the left nor the right political sex was matched by such a central compromise solution, which was also identified as appropriate by the implementation of the Constitutional Decision by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It is true, then, that there was, in my opinion, an unreasonable, if you want, indecency at the expense of the children, which was probably carried out in the desire for the legislative process to move from a dead point. At the meeting of the Education Committee an amendment was adopted with the formula 100 : 0, which was also negatively defined by the Legal and Legislative Service. At that time, this very strongly pointed out the wrong reasons for the notions of compulsory and extended part of the program. The legislature had already stated at that time that both compulsory and extended parts of the statutory component of the offer of all public and private schools are required, schools must offer them and parents have the opportunity to decide whether or not to do so. Another important warning from the Legislative and Legal Service was that this amendment 100 : 0 could be disputed in terms of the principle of protection of trust in Article 2 of the Constitution, which ensures that the State does not arbitrarily aggravate its legal situation. The current government proposal, unfortunately, also contains exactly the same funding formula 100: 0, so we can only assume that a similar opinion will be given to the Legislative and Legal Service. The only difference in today's government proposal is an additional 9-year transitional period after the old funding system, which provides for the formula 85: 85 for a transitional period of 9 years, i.e. until the end of the primary education of the last generation, which is included in the programme this year. However, I fear that this is just a smoke screen, i.e. the transitional provisions only preserve the existing situation for a few years, but they do not improve it, as the constitutional decision states. In fact, the key article in the law makes the situation of the complainants worse at the end of the transitional period, which is directly contrary to the spirit of the constitutional decision and the confidence in the law in general. I would like to stress that the final legal solution should be consistent with the Constitution, should not open up new issues, create new injustices and should also take into account our international commitments. I'm sure the minister knows that well, but perhaps the ideological burden is too great. I wouldn't want to forget the financial side of the whole story. It's about a good 300,000 euros. Perhaps for the size line, the budget of the Ministry of Education and Education is annually difficult for a good 1.9 billion euros. It's clear as day that it's not a money problem. This has, unfortunately, become a first-class political and ideological theme at the expense of children, that is to say, a handful of children, a good thousand 600 of them who attend these private elementary schools that implement a publicly valid programme. My opinion is that this is unworthy and unacceptable. The implementation of the Constitutional Decision has been delayed for 3 and a half years. They say that rights are also denied. This is the wish of our system and therefore, in the European Court of Human Rights, the country is losing a lot of lawsuits. He obviously does not take his citizens seriously, nor does he take their rights seriously. Finally, I would like to say that, on the basis of all of this, today's law is difficult to support, even in the fact that in this mandate, since I am a Member, we have rejected the position paper in December 2018 on the basis of the Minister's promise made at this House of Democracy. He promised to draw up an appropriate system proposal for the rest of the holiday, which would fully implement the constitutional decision. However, in the legislative process, we have been given a law which, according to my assessment, can be said to undermine confidence in the rule of law. At the same time, I am aware that this is also the last train, when with some amendments the law can be substantially corrected if, of course, there is a political will to do so, and that the legislative procedure will also allow us to adopt the law before the start of the next school year. I would stress that I will only be able to draw up an expert opinion on the basis of the fact that the law comes into second reading and that the law-law service will also be able to draw up an expert opinion, and in this first reading it will support the law. But we'd only have one more response to Comrade Kopriv. In fact, you stated that the bill was coalitionly coordinated. I am sure you know that SMC has expressed a very serious reservation that we will wait for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which we will also follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion. You encouraged the mag. Mark Koprivac. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Marko Koprivc, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Just that, to that performance of yours. The fact is that the bill was coalitionly coordinated and it was agreed that the matter could go to the Government. Then, in the Government, the ministers of all coalition parties unanimously supported the law. So I'm a little surprised by this debate, but still, it's possible. Even Mrs. Godchev, because I couldn't answer you sooner. Ms Godec, Article 11 of the ZOFVI sets out what a public school network is. You'll see what it is and what it isn't. Private schools without concessions are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u161	Your Honor, I must warn you that a procedural proposal does not duplicate itself. You've received a warning. However, Mr Željko Cigler is given the floor, and Mrs Tina Heferle and Mr Jože Horvat are preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Your Honor! For 25 years, I have worked on the local community at the level of education, and in my local community, the Valdorf School also works, so I know these things well. I must say that after the way primary education works in my municipality, even in the country, I claim that the right to education for all children in the Republic of Slovenia is guaranteed. Not only the right to education, but also quality education. This is taken care of by the network of public primary schools as well as by private schools operating. And all those who want more, otherwise, better, through private schooling have the legal possibility that such a school will be established. For the more and more, it is up to both the founders and the parents who decide to do so to provide the means. And this debate, which is currently under way today, would give a person who does not know the situation in Slovenia the feeling that this is a non-trust issue, not the ministry or the minister, how he is preparing a solution to the Constitutional Court's decision, but the non-trust of public education, the network of public primary schools where there are a lot of people, teachers, teachers, principals, advisers, hard work with children, and this is one of the most challenging and responsible parts of my country. And I hope that the increasingly emotional and behavioural disorders of children in our primary schools are not the result of monitoring such debates as these today. I'm sorry if I have to say this because there's very little argument here. And I would like to say that we should talk to each other, as often as possible, when we talk about the case of education, about how to provide this very important system with more money and better functioning, more space, more professional autonomy. That's the problem. And look, the public network of primary schools deals enormously with both the talented and those from social and culturally weaker environments in our country, especially with special needs. And when special needs were previously raised for children attending private schools, I would like to point out that this is an individual right of a student who belongs to him on the basis of a decision of direction which the Ministry is obliged to finance and to exercise whether he is at a public primary school or a private school. It's a student's right, and it's about the kids. Politics and ideological omens have nothing to look for here. From this point of view, I would like to say, this case has also been read earlier when in the past the European Commission on Human Rights, in the case of two English parents, decided when they demanded that the financing of their children in a private school be provided with 100 per cent. Following the decision of the European Commission on Human Rights, the requirement for such financial support would mean that the State is required to provide support to an educational institution that serves particular, religious or religious beliefs, and none of the countries has such duties. What is justifiable to our Ministry of Education and the State is to ensure quality, equal, accessible to all and consistent with their needs and personal situations — if this is the case — primary school education in the public network of primary schools. And that's what the Ministry guarantees. Slovenia even deviates from many developed countries in the European area, where it is stated that primary education is compulsory and the sovereign right of the country is to decide how much and whether to pay. Slovenia is here more than Switzerland, as the Saturday annex has been finely recorded in the past week. Indeed, we finance these schools under the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education 85%. And what I was communicating with Waldorf elementary school in Celje, there was never any comment on this matter, and I was disturbed by something about this school – when it failed to establish that the Ministry would finance the child's right under the guidance decision, that is, the escort, she gave up that child. I don't know what the principles are or why those with special needs or if they're a little different in private schools refuse and refuse. That's not a rule. However, this child — and many others who have these problems — was admitted to a regular primary school and is provided with these needs in cooperation by the Ministry, in part, and by local communities, but of course by schools. This is what we have to play and play a key role in providing the Ministry with funds and all the conditions to enable our children to have as many rights as possible, to be able to carry out quality education or to complete primary education. I think we have to say thanks today and recognition to the teachers and teachers and school leaders in the public network of schools and also to the private schools that do these things. In the end, I'd say this. It's not a question of whether or not to stop it privately. In Levika, we are committed to providing citizens with different services through social activities – I will say health, cultural, educational, pre-school education – through accessible public programmes. And when Mrs Jelka Godec said before that they have in their end, I think that around the Ponique canteen, after one department per grade of primary school, I am interested in which private primary school would have a capital interest there to implement the programme. What private doctor would have the desire and purpose, including from the point of view of income, to open his own private office? I'll answer you - none. This is about money. However, our interest is to take care of all children and to provide them with quality, accessible, primary education and education by tax. This is what we guarantee so far, and this must also be built in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. You have the floor, Madam Vice-President Tina Heferle, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat and later Mr Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I won't be in my debate too long. In substance, much has already been said about the proposed law by a colleague from SD, but of course, Mr Minister, whom I support in his efforts, and I welcome the proposal before us today. Of course, this is only the first consideration and, given our legislative procedure in the National Assembly, the time will be sufficient to discuss and possibly complement the law with amendments. We have heard the essence of the new regime today clearly, and I also welcome it. I would like to comment on the following. Members of the SDS have consistently advocated and stressed that it is only and only the Constitutional Court that is qualified to give a constitutional opinion on whether or not it is constitutional. Well, today we can hear from these same kinds that the proposal for a law that is before us today is unconstitutional. It's already disturbed my colleague, Meiro, and it's disturbed me. Just now, the assessment that the bill is unconstitutional seems extremely incorrect to me. So much for your consistency, which is not, but it's obviously proof that you're turning a little bit in the wind, just like you're doing right now. If I touch on my colleague Lisco's statement, which he had previously studied very well, I would like to congratulate him on this. Comrade Lisec, this principle, i.e. the prohibition of reformation and peius, which means the prohibition of the change to the worse, shall be applied in criminal law when the conviction against the accused in the appeal proceedings is said to be in another instance, must not be amended to its detriment. This comparison with the legislative procedure is, of course, neither happy nor correct, since, for example, your infamous Zuyf could not have been accepted because he was violating the rights of public servants. My modest proposal is, however, I am aware that it will probably not fall to fertile ground, that we are discussing properly and that we are not manipulating words in our debates because we are actually manipulating our citizens, which is extremely disrespectful. And also talking about how many security guards are in private schools, how many in public schools, Mrs Dimic, are not on this topic today, and it is also an attempt to mislead and divert attention from the substantive provisions that the bill offers today before us. In my view, the bill is, of course, suitable for further consideration, and I will therefore also confirm it by my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Now, the order is slightly changed, but it's completely in line with all the rules. Mr Joseph Horvath, you are certainly the first, but behind you is Mrs Alenka Jeraj, followed by Mr Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Our policy is based on the fundamental value of Christian democracy, that is freedom. Freedom of man. But, of course, that freedom that is closely linked to responsibility. Of course, some people do not like this, which is perfectly normal because this law does not bring freedom of parents as far as the education of their children is concerned. And I'm so in the world that I remember the 1980s when a former state wanted to introduce what was called the common cores. The proposal came from circles that advocated greater centralisation of the federal state, now for the mornings and then for the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. With the idea of joint sails, they ran into a large and rather unified resistance in Slovenia and in other republics. And even now, we have some resistance on this matter. Of course it's not mass — why not? Because it's practically only 0.84% of primary school children and so many of their parents. So don't expect 20,000 people to go to the streets. Of course, I don't want the street to dictate, upset this Slovenian society, I want us to agree here on some smart way, finally, almost five years later. And now we're kind of arguing here about what he claims, I guess, the right hand, that it's unconstitutional. We're just reading a report from the government legislature. That's all we read. I'm not a constitutional lawyer. On the other hand, you advocates say: “This is, this is, this is the remedy of the constitutional decision.” So you're putting yourself in the role of Constitutional Court. Well, I won't be for long now, because I don't have time for what Judge Jasna Murgel said about the purpose of her prophecy regarding the constitution of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, the Family Code states, Article 7, the principle of the child's benefit: “Parents have the advantage of taking care and responsibility for the benefit of the child over all others.” Pika. So also in front of the minister. But you say, no, no, that's not true. Fourth point: “State authorities, public service providers, public authorities, local community bodies and other natural and legal persons must take care of the child in all activities and procedures.” You say no. And why, for God's sake, Minister, on these little things, on this number of children are you building a rating of your client? I know, and I say publicly here that you are a good man, that you are an honest man, so at first I also said "respected Mr. Minister". I regret, however, that you are only an extension of the deadline of some others, those who arrived in the previous term in the National Assembly and have said something like this – that they will disperse the SD if you do not change the constitution. And you went. And burned. And you're burned, ladies and gentlemen. Private schools are part of the public school system — why? Because they're spending public money. Private clinics, private clinics are part of the public health system that we advocate — why? Because they're spending public money. I would now like to mention to you for a long time the Convention on the Rights of the Child and so on and so forth, I am sorry that time does not allow and you know this for sure. But, Mr. Secretary, we are disappointed. We gave you a deadline, we opened the door for you to come to the New Slovenia Group, you announced that you would come, you were gone. The door's still open. We understand this as a school case of ignorance and arrogance. And when the kids ask me about these two outsiders, I'll explain this school case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. I'm not going to comment because I can't. But I give the floor to Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Mr. Koprivc, you want a replica? Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] You mentioned SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, I recognize myself in your implementation, so allow me a brief, really very short replica. First of all, with regard to the opinion of the UNSCR, the Office of the Government of Law. For example, Zyphus, the infamous Zuyph, had an SVZ, such as this, a somewhat negative opinion, and concerns, but the matter went on. However, let us wait in this particular case for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and then see how things stand. However, the second point, just as I had previously responded to Mrs Godec, I repeat that private schools are not part of the public school system, this is defined by Article 11 of the ZOFVI and additional reasons, Article 73 of the ZOFVI, and I would ask the Ministry to further clarify this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u169	You'll get it right away, Mrs. Godec, also a procedural opportunity. One more time, let me explain. If the Member is not directly mentioned, but is recognised in the quote, he may have a replica, otherwise not. I hope you're all aware of this, and I'm assuming I didn't make a business mistake. But once again, the replica is only possible if you are mentioned or if you recognize yourself in the entries that are in some way summarized after you. Mrs. Alenka Godec, you have a procedural option, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u170	Jelka Godec. Mr President, it is procedural for me to call the Minister again, because the Secretary of State is also tweeting about how private schools do not perform public service. I will read now, because no one wants to answer, article 11, the public network: “For the provision of public education and education services, a public network consisting of public schools and schools, private schools and schools and individuals with concessions is organized.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you. But above all, I apologize for bringing together the incompatible. It is clear to me that I cannot combine two letters on my name and last name, and therefore, please, I apologize. Do we have a procedure, Mr. Matjaz Han? [[advertising from the hall]] In procedural cases, we had a request for the government's response, which is allowed procedurally, but the government decides whether or not to respond. Would you like to respond, Mr. Secretary? He'll respond. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Dear Member, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, in fact, your word is now. I believe that no one will interrupt you, but Mr Matjaž German and Mrs Matej Udovč will prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I would tell Mr Cigler why private schools do not accept children with special needs – because the Ministry does not recognise them, it does not recognise them as a defector, as it admits in public school. And if such a child is taken to such a school, parents must sign that they will not require all the rights that go to him because the school cannot provide them. That's why they don't accept them, not because they don't want them. But because the Ministry won't let them. The amendment does not give effect to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Some of you have already told me why not and why we can claim in the SDS that what you are proposing will fall again in the Constitutional Court. If someone in court is sentenced to five years in prison and then complains, the court cannot increase his sentence to seven years. That's what you did. You did this and admit it yourself because you write: “The proposal is contrary to the principle of trust in law. It follows from the Constitutional Decision and from the established constitutional judgment that the constitutional decision can be compatible only with the legal solution which leads to the improvement of the legal situation of the initiators and the proposed law makes the situation of the initiators worse.” You yourself wrote this into a transitional provision when you wrote that during this transitional period due to the last generation enrolled in the school year 2019/2020 additional resources will have to be provided so that we can do this. So you admit to giving less money than you've given up so far. That is why we can say that this will fall again in the Constitutional Court and also your government legislative service has told you that it puts your parents in a worse legal position than they now have. We are quoting the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation, and as colleague Gregorčič said, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly will write similarly because it cannot write otherwise. A dilemma about what is a primary school program and what is not, for a fellow Koprivac. A colleague of Gregorčič's explained it well, but you can also look at it, and it is clearly written in the law. If you look at the Basic School Act, the second section, from Article 14, we have a primary education programme and then it is listed in here: compulsory program, optional subjects, extended program. And all of this is a primary school programme, a public programme that schools have to implement. It is true that an extended programme covering extended stay, morning protection, additional education, supplementary education, interest activities and non-compulsory selection courses is not compulsory for children, including voluntary participation. He is compulsory for school, and the school has to provide him because children have to be able to apply. No school may receive public accreditation if it fails to do so and does not. That's what we're talking about. Minister, you read the decision of the Constitutional Court as read by colleague Koprivc – that the Constitutional Court only speaks about the mandatory programme. It is not true, because if you read the whole decision, then the Constitutional Court will say “the compulsory public education programme”, which means that it understands its compulsory part, these are objects, and extended: extended stay and so on. Indeed, he writes once: “The extended programme or superstandard that private schools provide additionally” is a believer and what is not being funded now and will not be later. You have done this, I will say, a little innovatively, so that you can now explain to us that the Constitutional Court has also said that it only speaks of a mandatory programme, so that you can impose a decision that you do not like and which requires you to change some things. There's talk about protecting public education all the time. What must he be protected from? Who wants something for public education? We said it's 480 schools, with branches 700, private schools are 6, of which two are Catholic. And all of these have concessions and are therefore financed, Comrade Koprivc. They are therefore part of the 11th article, which speaks of the public network: “For the provision of public education and education services, a public network consisting of public kindergartens and schools, private kindergartens and schools and individuals with concessions is organized.” All six of them have concessions, so they're part of a public network. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, whether they are financed under the contract, where you have the following Article 86, which we are talking about at all and for which we are changing, this clearly distinguishes: “The private school implementing the programmes referred to in the first paragraph of this Article shall be provided with 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme.” The mandatory and extended programme is included because the law goes on to say: “Private schools do not have the means for investment, investment maintenance and equipment.” A colleague from the SD also said how many millions and how many thousands of euros received different schools with concessions or private schools. Yeah, they got him, but what was that money for? Did he go to someone's bank account or did he pay teachers' salaries and the program they run in this school? By the way, the public programme which the State has set aside could not otherwise be implemented and is therefore obliged to finance it. There is no point in explaining what they have in other countries, we have written in the Constitution that primary education is compulsory and that the country is funding it. And that's why he has to finance it because he finances education, not private school or public school. It finances education, not schools, so it pays teachers who implement the programme, material costs and what is necessary. All these schools are established as public institutions, non-profit public institutions. They're not making any profits, which is what my colleague Kordish was talking about, and I don't know who else. What profit? They're non-profit organizations. Some of you have said or say all the time that private schools are the wealth of public education and some supplement and parents have a constitutional right to choose where to give their children. Look, you're explaining that private schools can't have children rejecting them. Yeah, but they don't reject them because they don't want them. Because the wish is once more than the city. And if we were a country in place, we would make sure – because the country is the one that creates the conditions – that parents can have a choice and, in accordance with the Constitution, teach children according to the system they want. It's a constitutional right. The constitutional rights of our parents, which we deny them, because cities are not enough. The Constitutional Court also states in its decision that the decision of the State not to allow private schools, but only public schools – as you say – is as low as possible of private schools because they threaten public schools, although 0.5% of them are in practice, because of the exceptional rigidity of the aspirations of public schools in principle is no longer in proportion to the concept of a democratic society. We are saying that we are a democracy, that we want people to be able to make democratic decisions, that we allow plurality of opinion, and that you are pushing down a civil initiative here because they are going to learn something else than they are learning in public school. If they weren't, they wouldn't have been, because parents wouldn't have made decisions about them and enrolled their children if the school were bad. We have a bigger problem with not bringing any good practices from private schools to public school. You know, you may not know this, but teachers come to Waldorf school, they come to montessora school. When they go to Finland and abroad, they look at such schools and then they bring different teaching patterns here, thank God. That is why many public schools, some of them, are much more quality than others, because people engage and work harder and do more. So half the parents can't put them in the private school they want to go to, and someone said earlier that it's just for the elite and that some kids can't even go to school in nature. You know, kids at Waldorf school go to school in nature because they have money for those who don't have money, the fund and the others collect for them because it's also one of the goals of integration and so on. They teach them values to help others and so on, so no one stays at home, but they all go, and other children’s parents and schools take care of them. Private schools are a relief for the state, for the municipalities. Look, at Igu last week, we opened an attitude towards elementary school, eight new classrooms, and we have a Waldorf school. 40 of our kids go to Waldorf school. Otherwise, these kids would be in public school, and instead of paying for eight classrooms, they'd have to pay for ten. It's a relief. The Association of Municipalities says – just to find – that this will be essential for municipal budgets, the Ministry has not calculated it at all, of course, we will again impose obligations on the municipalities, and let them be found, as they know and know. By the way, for our school, which I mentioned, on Iga, the scene, the Ministry gave nothing and there are no invitations or are on every square, not to say. The Association of Municipalities has said that it is estimated that it is bringing more expenditure on budgets. So this experiment is going to cost us more than it costs us now. My friend Baković, as I said before, said how much we paid for all these schools, but it was pay because teachers, you won't believe, in private schools, are as public servants and are paid as teachers in state schools. It's also required, or you can't even get accreditation to run a public program. 80% of teachers must be as required. Instead of working to finance quality and for what we pay, demand quality and improve public schools, we are working on how to prevent these other poor six private schools. Look, ever since this legislation got tightened, no schools have been set up. No private school has ever been established. Then we're probably not doing anything right if you really want to get rich. We are very welcome to all who are coming, to enrich our culture and so on, but here we have a problem with enrichment. That's why, of course, I'm having trouble supporting a marriage like this. I regret if all the proceedings will have to take place as before, i.e. the veto of the Council of State, the re-voting here and the parents to the Constitutional Court again. Let's sit down and let's think smart about what we're doing. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear that there is no need for any philosophy, you have had five marriages before you, you have thought similarly in the SMC and see, in the end, a constitutional decision will have to be fulfilled unless you change the Constitution, which you know is difficult, and I hope you will not, because since independence there is a provision that we can have a private school, and in the 30 years that the state has not failed or a state education. We still have so many schools or we still build them, state. But if there's another private one, it probably can't be that kind of a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion. Here you go, Mr. Brickler, you have a replica. Actually, you don't have it because you've wasted your time. I'm sorry. The replica is only possible if you have time as a member group, but now you are already in the minus. [[advertising from the hall]] You'll wait for the split. That's legitimate. Before he gets the word, Mr Matjaž German, the government wants to speak. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, there are some things that need to be said about this debate, and in this intervention I may only respond to some of the legal issues that have been raised. Firstly, we do not know government schools in Slovenia. This is unknown to any diction of any existing legislation, but we do know public schools. So that we do not know the government if they were governmental, then of course they would be in line with any policy of each individual government. This means that sometimes even for a year or a year or a half, or another year, we do not know that. So, as far as that's concerned, first of all, the government. We do, of course, know the public. It is also clear in public schools – because it was mentioned earlier because the debate on this – what belongs to the public and what does not belong to the public. It is crystal clear in Article 41 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which establishes public schools and kindergartens, these are local communities, and who establishes secondary schools, if we say so domestically, is the country. Although it is not written in the ZOFVI, it is also crystal clear who is establishing universities — this is the country. So much for who's the founder. Everything else is a private initiative and nothing is wrong with it. Everything else is a private initiative and they are private. That's point one. Secondly, there is a lot of debate about mandatory and widespread. In preparing this position, we have also taken the last position on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 2. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here I will read the whole paragraph, so that there is nothing wrong with it, quote: “But it is necessary to point out that the initiators in the U-I-269/12 case objected only to the extent of State resources to finance the functioning of primary education. In this context, the Constitutional Court, in its decision, assessed only the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI in the work relating to the compulsory public education programme and only in the light of Article 57(2) of the Constitution. This a contrario means that the Constitutional Court did not judge the contested legal provision,” it did not consider, “in the work relating to an extended public education programme”. The Constitutional Court, in the opinion of the ZPS National Assembly of 2. 11. 2018 on the extended programme has not been assessed. “Neither has it been judged in terms of any other non-constitution,” and so on. And here's the end of paragraph. So when we talk about compulsory and widespread, we must first ask ourselves what the Constitutional Court has actually judged. And in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, of course, was then repeated in conclusion, it judged the mandatory part of the programme rather than the extended part of the programme. And who should I count on, that's point two. Then, there was a lot of talk about elitism, about choice of parents, and so on. Look, elitisting or providing free choice isn't just about money. It's not just the money. It's not just money that allows for free choice. We all forget places of entry. We all forget the places of entry – also the places of entry limit access to the choice. What if you sign up for the 31st place, but it's only 30? Yeah, well, your kid can't be. The entry places of private primary schools shall be determined by themselves. If you apply on 31st, 33rd, you do not have an entry post and thus you cannot exercise your right to choose. So it's not just about preventing your money, so the funding prevented you from exercising your right to choose. No, it's also places of entry that can keep you from doing that. And the third time. It is not just money and places of entry, it is also – I will say, what has been said several times in this high assembly, and this is – a simple practicality that prevents you from actually using this right. If I have to go to the nearest school 42 kilometers in one direction, to the nearest private school, it's only a paper right for me as a parent. If I have 105 kilometers, as the Member of the Coast said, then I can take the child 105 kilometres a day and wait for him to finish his education and take him 105 kilometers in the other direction. If we're talking about reality. For our citizens are also in Goričke and elsewhere in Koroška. If we're talking about elitism and how things are going. Fourth time. As far as first-class sections are concerned. Only a simple analogy with the existing ZOFVI was made. Article 44 of the ZOFVI provides that for public schools there are also two sections of the first class, on the basis of which a person may establish a public school. Yeah, two wards. Of course — this is clearly written — this does not apply to branches. But branches are organizational units. The branch office was never a school. Branches are organizational units. So when we talk about this, just by saying it, this condition of two sections in the first class was once before in the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education and has already been in force there until the middle of 2000, and no one in the Constitutional Court has challenged it and no one has said in this regard that any right, which I have already talked about, would be limited in any way. Then there was something else about the public school network. We can argue about what is said in Article 11 of the ZOFVI. I read this a little differently, but I have a sub-legislative act here called the Directive on criteria for the creation of a public network of primary schools, a public network of primary schools and institutions for the education and education of children and young people with special needs and a public network of music schools. We are talking about a regulation that has been last amended by informally cleared text number 4, which was last amended by 19. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 2 clearly states in paragraph 1 that the public network of primary schools consists of public primary schools and private schools with concessions. Pika. That's what the regulation says. [[advertising from the hall]] Which is a sub-legislative act, but is the implementation of a legal act, i.e. the first paragraph of Article 11. So, of course, now we can go to a long debate about how the legislator wrote or didn't write it down, but look, I'm just saying this as an example, so that it's clear why this network is going on. And then I think the fifth thing is, yes – only those private schools that were established before 1996 have a concession. Everyone else is under contract. And that's the difference. Since concessions establish concessional relations, the relationship between the concessionaire and the concessionaire is determined, which are clear relations – as well as Etelka Korpic speaks in a separate opinion on the constitutional decision – between one and the other. Yeah. So this isn't about concessions, it's about contract financing. This too is likely to have to be taken into account in order for our citizens, now that we have this debate, to understand this debate very carefully. However, as regards public service and acquired public service, it is not for anyone, as has been said in one of the opinions, to be bullied or any of these. No, no, no. All legislation, however, clearly gives rise to what is original and what is acquired. That's what this division is about. However, it is, of course, important that later certificates are made, all certificates obtained both in public and in private primary schools, publicly valid, so that they can continue their education on the basis of these certificates, that they are carried out and recognised in primary education and so on. In short, public validity is key to how it can be achieved, but it depends on who the entity is and how the entity is placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed, I just want to warn you that the list has changed significantly, so that I will continue to read three from now on. Behind Mr Matjaž Germans is Mrs Mateja Udovč, followed by Mr Matjaž Han, followed by Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable Minister spoke of public service. To put it domestically, all that is in the certificate and would be 100 % funded in private and public schools is crucial to what we are talking about today. In particular, it excludes additional activities such as protection, additional, complementary education and other programmes. We come mainly from our own programmes. Social Democrats and many other partners, coalition partners, we advocate public education. We, as Social Democrats here, are consistent from generation to generation for a simple reason, not just us, but also abroad, admits that our public education is among the best in the world. Why would we change what's best in the world? I live at the Italian border, let me tell you, Italian public education – I am talking about a country that is still among the top 10 strong economies in the world – in public schools do not know toilet paper, children carry it themselves. They don't know the air conditioners, they don't even know the shadows or the curtains, by their own words. So that's what I'm talking about. In our schools – there are exceptions, also depending on the municipalities, but however – the standard is high and the standard of knowledge of our students is also appropriate. What I mentioned earlier, about the experiences we were taught, I was educated in the 1980s and 1990s, and I remember as a child that families from the former republics of Yugoslavia came to our classroom. What the public school gave us is that today, 20, 30 years later, those who may have come from the working class, intellectuals, those who came from more wealthy families, today have a special empathy for the human race. This is what I'm talking about – that we as a society can develop with the same opportunities. And that's what we keep. Yeah, it's ideology, it's ideology. On the other hand, we don't prevent anyone from doing anything. We also have the opportunity to have a private school available. Of course, in this part that I mentioned earlier, what the Minister was talking about, we are talking about public validity, that is, what it says in the certificate. All the extras have to be paid. That's right. Third experience. I remember 30 years ago, talking about public dentistry. Are any of us 90 Members using public dentistry today? It's gone. We're fighting for public and affordable health care. That is why this battle is so important that we maintain the possibility of an accessible, quality public education by not restricting anyone. Anyone who wants to have conditions can also enter their children into a private school. Of course, discourse would probably be slightly different if in the Republic of Slovenia today we also had private schools, perhaps not only Catholic, but some other religions, Islamic religions, for example. Let me just mention some of the initiatives of the Turkish authorities they wanted and what their attitude would be. We, the Social Democrats, are inclined to do so, but the differences are only important – why? As I mentioned earlier, it is important to maintain accessibility for all equally. The only minister he spoke of was precarnation, the fight against predation in school, no one else. As set out in the novel proposal, private schools will have to ensure that 80% of teachers or educators are employed. That's a win-win, too. This is a civilizational acquisition, so that in private schools teachers or teachers can actually be employed in the vast majority and they also have one social security. The Minister also stressed that the way of financing for existing private schools would not change. In the future, 85% of the funding provided by the State or local communities for the implementation of the public school programme will also be obtained for the implementation of the programme. The proposal does not restrict or provide for additional conditions for the establishment of private schools, but only lays down the conditions for the financing of private schools. We are therefore establishing order in terms of financing schools and the school system. Of course, equal opportunities for everyone, this is the main message. That someone who comes from the countryside can be educated in the same way as the one who comes from the urban centers, the one who comes from the working class will be able to become an intellectual, and, as already said, the one who is an intellectual will have a special empathy for the one who may not have that kind of happiness in life. This is what has kept us as a society for decades, that we are Slovenians anyway – because we are egolitarian, but that there are smaller differences between us. This does not mean that someone who is capable must also work for an incompetent or lazy person. This means that society is able to provide social security for those who cannot help themselves. And it's also a public education, and that's why it's worth fighting for. I will support this proposal in the first and second readings and also in the following, because I believe we are doing something useful for everyone. We don't take it from anyone and create order where it hasn't been, and we don't take anything from anyone. I believe that Slovenia can be friendly to anyone, regardless of religion, regardless of the environment from which it comes, and regardless of our ideological or political orientation. Apart from some exceptions, however, I must conclude with one emphasis – to expect those colleagues on the right from me who can be very loud on certain values, to actually support what is public good when we talk about public goods. Not that they're simply not here today. What's more, they won't support this marriage. But he will be supported by those who ask many questions and receive many answers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr Member, for your debate. You have the floor, Mrs Mateja Udovč, but prepare yourself as follows: Mr Matjaž Han, Mr Gregor Perič and then Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. I have nothing, an interesting discussion by a German colleague who discusses or compares public dentistry and asks Members or citizens and citizens if anyone else is going to public dentistry. Yeah, I have to say, I still go to public dentistry. I fear that the school system will ever change as dentistry has changed, when perhaps many of our citizens today can no longer reach dental services. So I can get back to today's subject. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 57 for the State to create the necessary legal framework for the establishment and functioning of private schools and to recognise the public validity of the education obtained in private schools. Of course, it is very good to write and read at the declaration level, and in implementing these, they are often complicated. What quickly begins to polarise professional and legal opinions, political positions and, of course, raise questions about the provision of financial resources. I think it is high time that we overcome this narrowness and for the sake of our craftsmen we put in place the most effective, transparent and quality school system. A system that will be added value in the field of education of children and youth. In my opinion, education must be based on all available public school systems, which does not mean that I exclude private schools. On the contrary, private schools implementing public school programmes are welcome to compete with public education to raise the quality of their work. However, we must lay down clear rules. As we have already found out in the introduction, we are also commanded by the Constitution, so it is high time to set up an organisational and legal framework that will satisfy all legal regulation and social needs. I will not go back to the past and look for the culprits, why we have not yet fully implemented this constitutional provision and the Constitutional Court's decision in our school legislation, and the fact remains that we have already prepared an appropriate, in my view, optimal central solution in the Modern Centre Party in the previous term, which would meet all legal aspects and needs. The proposed formula 100-financing of the mandatory part of the programme and 85% funding of the extended part of the programme would enable private schools to implement quality school programmes. It would preserve their specifics and contribute to greater competitiveness in this area and the resources spent would not have a significant impact on the public education system. In this solution, it is an important rule that a private school for the same service cannot be financed from two sources. The current proposal for the novel ZOFVI proposes 100% financing of the mandatory programme and 0% financing of the extended programme in private schools. This is where there is a significant difference compared to our previous proposal. In addition to the new way of funding, the new ZOFVI, which is ahead of us today, makes the gap between the public programme and the private school programme, which is acquired through the conclusion of the Education Expert Council. It also sets out the criteria by which private school programmes will differ from public programmes and thus enrich education. It shall also establish a system for amending and evaluating newly introduced public programmes and sanctions in the event of non-compliance with an equivalent educational standard. New conditions will also be added, which private schools will have to meet to be eligible for public funding, namely, they will have to register as public education and education programme providers, and the conditions will have to be laid down to ensure that students and students are enrolled regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, material status, birth, education, social status, disability and so on, as it seems right. All these solutions already contained the amendment of the ZOFVI proposed by the Modern Centre Party in the previous mandate, and several new provisions have been defined below, which rounded up the area with a view to meeting the requirements of the Constitutional Court decision. In short, as I have pointed out many times before, arrangements, contracts and decisions need to be respected and implemented. This is the basis for the functioning of each rule of law and for our continued professional and political decision-making. This decision of the Constitutional Court must also be fully followed and implemented. I hope that the proposed novelty will undergo a formal and substantive test at the Legislative and Legal Service to meet the requirements of the decision in question. I also hope that all of us together will be able to manage enough empathy, energy, will and political wisdom to finally solve this problem. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my commitment to raising the quality of the existing education system, which will be friendly to students, teachers and parents, who will meet all the needs of pupils for further education on their wishes and potential. Also that he'll be accessible to everyone. Private schools must be a healthy competition for public schools, and in no way can they replace them and assume their full role in the education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam Members, for your presentation. Now, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, followed by Mr Gregor Perič, Mr Robert Pavšič, and then Mr Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much, President. I am little sorry that there are no colleagues from New Slovenia, but, nevertheless, we may hear something else in the second reading. First, my colleagues from the SMC and my colleagues from the SMC, just so that you – because you may not know – can clear the picture from the previous term. 36 colleagues and colleagues were sitting here. There were 36 of them. There were 30 on the right side, and now you're pleading that you couldn't take the law, just like it was written on your skin. But there were only six of us here and, of course, we are now the Social Democrats guilty ideologically and so on that this matter has not gone through. 36 Members, you've probably had colleagues on the right hand side who would take you into account in some way, and Desus was here. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I know, I know, but when they say they couldn't do anything, just so much for the public. But it seems that social democracy is really the party that gives some stability and strength to all coalitions. My dears, first of all, let me tell you about ideological topics. I, Matjaž Han, am of course defined, but I am not burdened by some in this Chamber – not by my politics or by social democracy or by some ideology. But of course I'm defined. That is why I have no ideological concerns on this subject either – I have no objection to the church, my dears, I have no objection to the private initiative, but I do not agree with the fact that this matter, which you want to introduce, is simply not fair. It's not fair. They say private education is some kind of supplement to public school. No offense, today we are talking half too little about public school, the top public network of our primary schools, where every child in this country has, whether their parents and mothers have a thick wallet or not, the possibility of going to school – Jelka, absolutely – in a person who can develop his talents, in primary school. That's not true? What are you doing? You're a successful lady. You're a Member. You probably went to elementary school on a public network. [[…]] It's in every village. There's a church, there's a primary school, there's a inn. And everything works. As for private schools, which are an addition to public schools, which I have no objection to, but are totally unjust, my dears. In the congregation from which I come, I have many friends, or perhaps even more, who attend church on Sundays, who are faithful, who respect faith, and who would probably also like to be placed in the Catholic elementary school here in Shentvid, their child — yes, they cannot. They can't, but the state can't know how much money there is! You know why they can't? Because you can't take a seven-year-old kid from May to Radeča to Shentvid and let him be at the elementary school in Shentvid for five days a week. You can't because mom and dad and family are, I mean, even more important than teachers in some elementary school. I guess you can't drive it every day, either! And that's why it's not fair. This school can be driven by people who have a little bit more money who are pretty close to this elementary school, they have this privilege if you want, just them. From Šentjur, from your village, from where Jože is, they can't drive to Ljubljana to such a school. They can't. I don't have one. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, they're driving. I just don't know what your parents are doing. They go to work? Do old parents drive them? Let's be realistic! Let's ask ourselves, can every private school that I say is good, every parent takes his seven-year-old child? To a school like this every day? Can he leave it at boarding school? He can't. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, but only some of them can drive it, and some of those extras, my dears, pay. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not letting go. That's one thing. There aren't many. Another thing I'd like to tell you. I don't have to help myself with the houses, but I have to help myself with the light cubes, so I know what to say. I invite the one who made that house with the green roof or who has defined it as a green roof, because the private person is to come — not now to Svebna, to my village — to make a private school in the Zidana Bridge. Let him build it, or let him rent it, hire people, and wait for how many people will come to this private school. There will be no green roof. Nothing Tonin will be able to move the houses up, and the houses down here. He won't be able to because it's simply not worth it, my dears. Because it's not worth it. It's not worth it. Of course, the state is worth it and the state is obliged to stop everyone in this country, allowing every child to go to primary school. He owes it to him to do it. And thank God we have a country like this. That's one thing. I must say that I have not heard as many constitutional specialists as I have heard today for a long time, and I will be very happy when it is likely that in about three months the President of the State will again call one seat for a constitutional judge. I hope they don't just sign up for three of them, but they'll turn in about 15 of them. And I don't know what the Constitutional Court will do. I once thought I knew what it would do, given these two constitutional decisions, I don't know what it would do, but I respect it. Even though I once spoke up, I said that the Constitutional Court is like Pisa, like a tower in Pisa that it is. And at that time, there were more than three constitutional judges who were more right - handed than the kabayagi — and I don’t care at all. I don't care about that at all. So I invite someone to take over the branch school at our May and unload the Radeča Municipality. As long as we are Social Democrats in the Municipality of Radeče in power, we will not build a road, but we will always give it to the branch school in May. The ministry had recently said that — not when our own, when others might have been, said — see, two children are there, it is not worth having branch schools. We said it was absolutely worth it and the congregation would pay for what the Ministry would not pay. And we kept it. Today we have, I think, 10 or 15 people at the branch school and the thing is working, you're kind of living. And if there's anything good about my entire political career, it's that we've kept some branch school that everyone would have closed because of the economy. Medklic: These children are extremely successful. There's one more thing I'd like to tell you or ask her, and I really don't know. How much does the parent who enrolled his child in a private school have to pay now? I don't know that. Is that 20, 30, 200 euros? I don't know that. Because it was probably the basis for parents to turn to the Constitutional Court, which, of course, is legitimate, this payment. Okay, the Constitutional Court ordered the Ministry or the Government to change the law. We think this law is okay. I believe or suppose my parents will go to the Constitutional Court again, we will wait for what the Constitutional Court will do. I know what will happen next, this law will probably be adopted in a second hearing with some normal majority, then the veto will fall, and I know that Jelka will take care of it, just as she did today for the meeting that was in the State Council, because the President of the Council of State has been typing your directives, what you wrote to him, how he should conduct the meeting and which he must invite, because probably the President of the State Council doesn't know that. I suppose then this marriage in the veto will fall. But the Social Democrats have done our part, and we will, as long as we are in the National Assembly, and even if we do not, defend that the public is still the most just. I don't know if it's the best, but it's the fairest thing for everyone, no matter where this kid comes from. Now there's one more thing, and then I'm really done. The 2020 budget will be, 2021 will, we will see how much you will fight for the money to be poured into the budget for your primary schools, public schools. Call your privates and have them build them in your congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor Perič, to prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. I also welcome the representatives of the Government, both the Secretary of State and of course the Minister, and the colleagues and colleagues who are still on the subject today! I think we have processed this subject several times in this house, but obviously not enough detail yet, and I believe that we will also discuss it in the future. At the same time, colleague Han encouraged me to think more broadly. He mentioned that in the SMC we counted a little awkward in the previous term. I think we all know how well to count, but I am not quite sure if, in the previous term, as coalition partners, we would be thrilled to see solutions for individual proposals outside the coalition, because this is some kind of, I will say, an unusual signal. The coalition must be able to agree on certain things, to make a deal. We're at this point today, too, but we're at different points, at least some. In the SMC, we insist on our starting point from the previous mandate, so when we discussed the implementation of this constitutional decision on compulsory work, we remain at 100%, as we proposed at that time. In the enlarged programme, however, we have offered a variety of solutions, especially to the fact that we want some kind of agreement, some political compromise that has by no means been and does not want to be an ideological compromise today, but, as I have already mentioned, it is in particular a technical issue that would have been easily addressed if it had been willing enough. What surprises me and at the same time gives me some hope is the fact that we have also taken a step forward in some of the parties. The Left remains in its firm position that the only solution it sees is a change of constitution. This is a rather ambitious solution, which, given what we have heard, will be difficult to experience with a positive, successful epilogue. At the same starting point, Desus, who has already proposed a single amendment to the mother we are dealing with in the previous term, has offered a solution to 100 % of the financing of the mandatory programme and 0% of the financing of the extended programme, which is today the proposal we have on the table, namely the proposal of the Ministry itself. But then I have to touch my colleagues from SD. Your colleagues from the SD were in your previous mandate, very firm in your position, despite the fact that you had six Members – I think this is not at all important how many Members there are, but what our view of everything is, namely, your firm position was in this – that this problem, which we are dealing with today, can be resolved primarily in a way that we change the constitution. Mr Minister, while in his previous term in his second role, has now taken a slightly more institutional stance and has softened, like your party, the views on the solution of this problem, and now you are offering or advocating a solution to 100/0. If I touch on this solution slightly more precisely through processes or materials generated through the process, especially in the previous mandate, and rely on the position of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which addressed this matter in particular on the proposal or amendment of the Desus Group. At that time, it was evident from the magnetogram that one part of me will quote that such an amendment by the Desus Group could be disputed in terms of the principle of protection of trust in the law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution, which ensures that the individual ensures that the State of the legal situation does not deteriorate arbitrarily to him, making it worse without a reason justified in the dominant public interest. So if I sum up now, the continuation: The Government or the proposer must explain the reasons why it also excludes part of co-financing of the work of the extended programme, which is uniformly established for all primary schools. In short, the task ahead of us is very complex in some way because we are, I fear, very complicated in our positions in the past and at the same time today. Some concessions will be needed, and if we do not have, in the sense of these concessions, in particular, those we are dealing with today, I think we are dealing with them in a rather disrespectful way at many points. [[…]] Because if I put myself in the skin of those — well, children probably do not accompany these meetings today, but — parents or family members of these children attending private schools, today we have heard many things, including what I am not judging, and I believe that they do not feel comfortable with everything they have heard. There were many interpretations. Personally, I have no problem if a parent or an old parent chooses to drive a child for 20 kilometers each day, or because of me for 250 kilometers, because in the final stage of the constitution, it gives him the opportunity to do so, and he can take advantage of it, or he can’t. Someone's going to make a different decision. Someone goes, I don't know, once more a year on vacation, and someone invests in their children according to the beliefs they have. Because that's his right. After all, who are we to tell someone how to raise their children? This allows the Constitution to do something else. It is also true that today we have repeatedly touched on two constitutional decisions, one from 2001, which speaks of private education as a whole, and those from 2014, which are why we are standing or sitting here today, which speaks only and only about the financing of basic education, which is the only compulsory one. So, kindergartens are not compulsory, and even when we go to high school, teachers already make it very clear to us that if we are not interested in the educational process, there are some doors out there that we can cross and there will be no more problems. We know about higher education anyway. It is also true that the Constitutional Court in this decision only speaks of a compulsory programme. Here it says that this funding must be 100 % and here the ministry also sees and implements it. But the problem is then on that extended part of the programme, and we have already repeated hundreds of times today and in the past what it involves, so I will not repeat it. International practice, if I try to put it on a common denominator, suggests that the country has completely free hands, what it will do with this optional or extended programme, how much it will finance it. In the past – I think in 1996 – the law we are dealing with today set this ratio 85 for the mandatory and 85 for the extended public programme. Here I emphasize, a public programme. The solution we have on the table today, however, makes the situation of all these children or families worse, if I say so, which are included in the system, i.e. in private schools. This is certainly something that we must clearly and loudly stress and be aware of. In discussing whether this is a right or not, we may also have different opinions and views and certainly do not escape the fact that there is a transitional period for a careful reader of the bill. I also understand this transitional period in the sense that this is some right to be taken even though it is acquired. But above all, let us wait for the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to be defined. She's government. We have also heard many times today, saying that the applicant's legal situation has deteriorated with regard to the regulation in force, which has led to an initiative for constitutional review. I am not a lawyer, but I can also take this message as a warning that we should be wise and careful in this regard not to cause new injustices, new problems, new needs to appeal again to the Constitutional Court, new constitutional decisions and then new regrets of some calls by the National Assembly to settle this matter. What will then happen internally, I would rather not even guess, but I believe that the opposition will also not stand at the crossroads of arms, but will continue to practice investment and interpretation and constitutional accusations. And I believe that with some wisdom, we can channel all this energy into something more productive and beneficial, because I don't think it's going to connect or anything else. I have something else to point out, and it is very difficult for the public to explain the complexity of the area that we are trying to address now. Many understand that we are now dealing with the whole of education, that everything private will now be financed from the budget. Let me also point out that this does not apply to music schools, which also operate at the level of primary schools, if I say so, so this does not concern the level of basic music education or so-called lower music schools. I must point out one more thing, even though I have said and I am pleased to see this as a positive signal, also by the SD, that you have softened this firmly from the previous mandate, that it is only a change in the Constitution of the solution you are advocating, in that you now agree that 100% of the public funding is part of the compulsory private primary school programme. Although we are going to see what old tweets Mr Minister – I think it was September 5, 2017 – was not exactly this view. I understand this as a positive message and as a desire to come up with one solution that will be good and that will be just and will not generate additional problems within the entire political system. Because if we don't get away with it, the Constitutional Court will go down and decide for us. I think we're mature enough as the National Assembly, and we're not gonna afford it. And if I end up with the Constitutional Court, I must say that I was extremely disappointed when I listened to the views of the parliamentary groups. If such a position were heard by one Member, I would still somehow get over it, but when I heard the position of the Levica Group, which very directly attacked the decision of the Constitutional Court, which commented on the Constitutional Court's judgment, which expressed its valuable judgments on the account of either decisions or constitutional judges – I think that this practice is extremely bad, extremely harmful for our entire political system, for the judiciary, as we see for ourselves that it is before many challenges, and that certain people or certain forces in our society interpret the role of the judiciary very much in their own way and it is necessary to say no. With such views that a member or a member’s group should be put on the brink of a Constitutional Court judgment — I think that all lights should be on fire here and that everyone should condemn it. I'm going to take this as a slip, as something that wasn't thought out enough, because otherwise we're going to have a hard time talking seriously and, above all, the citizens aren't going to take us seriously. They're taking us very seriously already. I hope that today, and even in the future, wisdom will prevail, and that we are dealing with far greater challenges than we have in the implementation or with some force, for my understanding, with a simple political agreement that is mainly of a technical nature. Here I have to point out once again where to place that private education funding bar, which in no way and in no way endangers public education. We are talking only about the six institutions or institutions involved, so that we can be safe and well respected as the National Assembly, because we are constantly in the eyes of the public, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but not to bring the debate into some field of ideological accounting. I'm not here and I don't want anything to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, to prepare Soniboj the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u184	Well, hello, all of you! However, I am sure that the Constitutional Court on this matter will certainly decide at least once again, and I also think or believe that the practice of commenting on the decisions of the Constitutional Court here is completely normal whether it is hygienic or not. This is now a completely different question. It's not a complex question, it's quite simple, but it's complicated, and we've complicated it. Let's stop blinding ourselves, it's not about education, but it's a completely ideological question, on multiple levels, so that no one gets me wrong. It is a struggle between private and public and at the substantive level to promote some of its views. It's all legitimate and legal, but it's sad that this time, today, it's on the children's backs. We should actually draw the line here. We have a great, good public education, which is accessible to everyone, but in private schools you don't want to talk about elitism. For some reasons, the minister has already listed the facts that confirm this thesis – I am not saying that this is true, so it is a thesis – but there are at least two more: everyone cannot go to this school, has such or different obstacles, and these schools are only six. So by definition, we assign them some special status. Not legal, but in the perception of people, these schools then have some special position, which is most easily described by elitism. And let elitism pay the one you chose. That's the way it is. If anyone wants something more, pay for it. And the claims that private means better, which can also be withdrawn from today's debate, cannot withstand some serious judgment. After all, all these teachers, whether in public or in private, are taught in the same universities in Slovenia. So they got the same knowledge. Then what's the difference? Only in the approach, whether it's private or public. And if it's private, then it can't work on the same principles as public. There's nothing wrong with being private, not getting me wrong. Private initiative needs to be encouraged, and a little broader thinking needs to be done, but this is moving away from the model of the country in which we live. There is a basis in the public and this base, at least in the primary school area, is excellent and gives everyone equal opportunities. We have heard that the legal situation must not deteriorate. So the current arrangement is okay now, even though it was wrong, because they've initiated a constitutional review, but if we accept it, it won't be okay again. So, whatever we do, we'll be back at the same starting point, and we'll have our own unconstitutionality. The purpose seems to be to complain until we reach our own. And that's until we're out of the picture. And then we ask ourselves, where does the pressure on the courts come from, one way or another? Who's smart now? We'll push our own, someone else will push their own, eventually one will be right, in a little while he won't be right, and this ping-pong we'll pass on. I wonder if this is why we may have another constitutional opinion and we will have the whole government here, and we will put them on the pranger, how they have failed to implement constitutional decisions. Not only am I sure, I'm sure, 100 percent will happen. It was very easy here to assess what was constitutional and what was not constitutional. The Minister argues that the draft law complies with the constitutional decision. I have no reason not to believe him. If it turns out not to be so in court later, he probably made a mistake. But it's human to be wrong. We're here in this house, and we're all wrong, all the time, all the time. It's either us or someone else. There is nothing wrong with being wrong, and it is important to admit this mistake and then to correct it. And that. Today — not now — we have come to a very high level with this debate, but we are just complaining about each other. “You Members have no idea,” was heard from that side, “nothing is clear to you, poor little man, because we must not live at all.” Isn't that right, Andrei? “Only small people are poor, we are not great.” And then if you say something back – because I'm hurt a lot, I have to admit, I'm stressed out a lot – but everything's wrong again. It is necessary to set up a mirror and to accept some criticism on many occasions, even on my part, that we do not say that we do not know how to pee or to insult or me personally. We have heard quite a few sayings and proverbs today, including Latin, but one Slovenian came to my mind, who eats the spear, falls to it. And now we've dug such a deep hole here that whatever we do, the solution won't be right for either of us. In the end, it will really only be primary mathematics. Forty-six must be in. In the end, some constitutional judges will certainly decide who was right and whether we will run out another one, two, three, four, five or six laps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you, Chairman. All three fellow Members and other fellow Members, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State and Madam! There was only 16 of us left in that hole that my colleague was talking about in a dug-up hole. But this is only one less than the number of members of the Education Committee in which I work and on which I hope that this topic will come, that we continue to proceed with this law. What is an accessible network of schools for all children? I think that's something we need to be careful about. In fact, children have this right, regardless of their parents' preferences, to receive a decent education, and I look at this problem through the prism of the rights of the child. The moment he decides when he goes to school, he can't decide what he's going to. This is done instead by parents and, in fact, for this reason, even if I have some doubts about certain philosophical or other preferences, I am counting on the fact that children have no influence, but they have to start their lives in some way where they are assigned. My children have been going, going, and going to public schools and public schools. And that's because I think our schools are great, kindergartens too, and I haven't felt any internal calls in myself to try to afford them anything else in terms of education. But my friends' kids go to some private schools, and when we talk, I can see that parents and kids are happy. And so when I compare mine and their children, it is clear that they are doing the same right to good education, and I therefore understand this thesis on State funding for private education to the extent that we have to determine by this law. But when I talk about private schools, I would like to point out that at that time I mean schools that deserve State funding at least for this part of the public policy, like schools that I don't think of as being exclusive when they sign up for, say, children of unbelieving parents or would not accept children of immigrants or would not allow children of different colour to be registered, not least, children adopted by same-sex parents and children from poor families. This is a real private school for me. One that doesn't make these differences. And when it comes to these judgments that we have heard many times today, I do not feel able and give this right to any of us here to judge the appropriateness of the constitutionality of this law or the constitutional response to this law. Colleagues who make this vehemently, constitutionally or unconstitutionally simply went beyond the limits of their capacity without any self-reflection, because, look, no constitutional judge can tell another constitutional judge how he will decide. And there's nine for that. There's 90 of us here to talk about something else. We are here to conclude compromises so that we do not remain entangled in the positions at which we started, because we will remain at the same point for another 20 years if we stick to it alone. The maturity of individuals and the maturity of society are in solutions, not in discussions. And that's our job. So we have a Minister of Education who is preparing and proposing a solution. He has this resort, his solution is, and ours is, and he offers it to us, not concretely, but openly, as a basis that we can complement in the process that continues. [[…]] So, give contributions, parliamentary groups, give initiatives, what to change, concrete models and not stay on some of our own trenches and fortifications from which we only tease voters. We are actually a plant here, we are a company of legal improvements, and we need to raise this productivity by law, which will implement the Constitutional Court's decision. So I see the solution in support of the law and it goes into further procedure, in bringing our views closer together and making concrete proposals for the application of this decision. Moving the muscles on the education of children and spitting from the edges of ideological extremes must not be a theme in Slovenia and in Europe for the 21st century. Therefore, I am counting on it to be without veto and unconstitutional constitutional judgment, which is why I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper, prepare Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have already had the opportunity today to explain our position on this law on behalf of the SAB Group. Both the parliamentary group and we personally believe in quality public education, such a public education that we will continue to develop in the direction of more modern teaching approaches, better content, a curriculum that will be adapted to modern life, the modern development of society, and all this requires constant effort, effort, material and financial resources. As we say, we want a basic education where all children, regardless of their social status, will have the same starting base so that they can start education. And then, in the course of this basic education, there may be a scholarship, a primary school or a secondary school that she wants to have, and so on and so on, those with intermediate knowledge and skills will certainly be seen in this system. Today, according to the three houses, we are talking most about this second one, which is the six primary schools in which the Constitutional Court said that they should be financed, that the mandatory programme should be financed in 100%, and that is also what this law provides. Opponents of the law on this side keep repeating and shouting that this provision does not apply only to the compulsory part of the programme. You may understand this, but also the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has said in its opinion that it considers that the constitutional provision applies only to the mandatory part of the programme and that the constitutional provision for it – whether we agree with it or not – is not relevant – stipulates that it must be financed in 100 %. What you would now like to see on this page, however, is that this whole private school, these six private schools, in fact – this is reflected in the debate and your proposals, even earlier, legislative ones – should be fully financed in 100% with public money. But here, as my colleague has already said before me, we may also be talking about basic injustice. If we had three cute houses today, we could find that the state or local communities that organise public education must set up schools regardless of where this area is, the right ones must ensure a network of schools, regardless of how many children there are, whether they are marketed, sustainable or not, they must accept all children regardless of race, religion, national ownership, parental status and so on, and this must be ensured in any case. Of course, there are already some private schools that we are talking about today, and my acquaintances — which are some of them and have children in them — when I ask them why they decided to do this school, they say, you know, there's a bunch of things great, like, there's only 12 kids in the class or there's 16, there's only one school. I repeat, there are 29 in my ten-year-old daughter's class in public school. So, it's great if there's a class of 14, I agree. They say, "Well, they have nice spaces like this, you know. They've got their order, but you can get everything there. But you know, by the time they're four, they'll bring you a piano teacher, and a art circle, and a ballet, and everything, so at four, when you take the kids, you've got all this. Great, perfect. And then they add, and that really pisses me off: "You know, I'm for my love XY," let's add the name, "I only want the best." And I don't just want the best for my love? I wish for the best. Like any one of us who has a child. But what's going on? Such a school, which is financed by the private sector in addition to the public – because it will in any case, I will then explain why – of course, this will always have a comparative advantage, either in the number of students either in the programme or in the special teaching approach, which public education will never be able to offer. It won't work! Because the funds are limited and we will never be able to offer a thousand different pedagogical approaches and a thousand of them and a thousand others. Although things are changing now. I have often criticized our public education, but I know that things are changing and that even in education they are trying to make changes. I'm just a lecturer in the Amazing Years program. This is a special programme based on communication skills, on solving problems out of the box and so on, this is a programme whereby in Norway the number of decisions for children with different special needs has been reduced by 60%. For 60%. And this programme, for example – I am talking about one particular case that I know – I know that it is now being established, that teachers in schools as well as individual schools are getting acquainted with it, that some are being educated, that some of these methods are already being introduced into the way they work. In short, this is what I want – that public school progresses, becomes more and more quality and goes on with time. Adversaries of this law also talk about the benefits of children so as not to worry about the benefit of children. We take care of the children's benefits, absolutely all of us take care of the children's benefits. They also say that we suppress plurality, that we do not allow ourselves to be decided. No one's denying it by this law. You can still make up your mind about any school you want, but if you have special wishes and needs, give it something to pay for. You're paying, aren't you? I have acquaintances, too. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'll answer that. I also have acquaintances who have children in that house with an orange roof, in a completely private school, as they say, it's an American school, and in the classroom there are ten children and two teachers per ten children, paying a thousand 200 euros per month, and they have two children. Let's think about how many people can afford it. They learn American culture, tradition, they know more about the American President than they know about our Parliament and government, they celebrate American holidays. But be like that, that's their choice. It's their choice, and they pay for it. However, they are also such as Mrs Jelka, which I am almost sure of, because I do not think that this is a secret which has a child in such a school, but who would have all the ratings of a private school, would not pay or have to pay, because otherwise a private person would not work, but that the state would pay as much as possible. That's what they'd want. Having some superstandard, because ordinary school is not good for them, for their children, because they want their children to enjoy their best, but they would not pay for it and should pay for it all from public funds. Isn't it? From some of the debates, not all of them, but from some of the debates that have gone in this direction, “this is a state school, we do not want children to be indoctrinated and so on”, one wonders what the interests of individuals are against this law. First of all, it's not a state school, because even a state doesn't set it up, you should be careful here. And secondly, if everything is wrong with you in this country, if the school is wrong, because there are children being indoctrinated there, although there is no religion or politics, I don't know what else, I don't know how you can even live in this horrible country that does all this. But it's also your choice, after all. Let's be a little more specific. In fact, we are talking about six schools, already the view of Uncle Google tells us that these are two schools, one in Maribor is one in Ljubljana, which was founded by the church. Then there are two schools with montessori pedagogy, which is a special kind of pedagogy. Some of you know her, I can agree that these are interesting approaches for whom. One is Waldorf and one is another, six, I'm not going to lose words about it now, but two are, we said, Christian. They pray in the morning, they pray in the evening, they have crosses there, they celebrate holidays. Okay. Okay, great, but why does the state have to pay for this?Oh, my God! Why? I think why he has to pay even more than he already pays – he pays 100% of this public programme. That's two. Then we look at montessori, I joke in Uncle Google montessori, I get the contribution of the New Montessori School in Podutik: a school without grades and textbooks. Great. I read below that there are no homework assignments either. Great, if anyone thinks he's gonna make a baby for this conflicting world of severe competition. I'm not getting into this. Then spirituality and Christian catechism. It is remarkable that children are raised in a spirit of values. It is spirituality, Christian values, for Christianity is part of our environment. A quiet room is available to students in the school, as an interesting activity takes place here also catecheza. The school was opened at the time and then the school premises were blessed by Archbishop Stanislav Zore. It's two schools. We're now at four. It's okay. It's okay, just so we know what we're talking about. And at the end of 3.3 million euros worth of investment, the school in Podutik, 100 students are supposed to host, over 2 thousand 500 square meters. 3.3 million was worth, pay attention now, the founder of the Centre montessori, and the owner of the centre could only contribute about 100,000 euros, so they rented 2.2 million euros of long-term loans, some contributed by donors – I wonder who these donors are – half a million euros to buy land they borrowed from relatives, acquaintances and older citizens. Watch out for this — these debts, as they said yesterday, have already returned something with the income from the operations of schools, kindergartens, and seminars they organize. Of course you do, Mrs. Jelka, but if you have to pay for this school to have revenue! If the school had revenue, you have to pay something else, or no private would have gone there! Why would someone who remembered set up a school if they didn't have any of it? Unless he has other purposes, of course. The indoctrination you like to talk about so much. But let's not get blinded. Someone is financing such schools and has a certain interest and nothing serious, just not to ask the state to finance their partisan interests, philosophical and religious views. Because if this bag were bottomless — a bag of money I'm talking about — then I understand. But these resources will always be limited for our education and for the social state. As the representative of the Left said – because they are extreme in their views, but they can sometimes say so hard: "Every euro for a private school is less for a public school." Now, whether it is true or not, but to be understood by the viewers, we are paying 100% of this law a mandatory programme in these schools, which has now been funded 75%, and we say that the extended programme should be paid for itself. [[…]] And this extended programme is by no means as extensive as all objects and all that falls under the mandatory programme. So the difference is definitely not 75%, and of course you all know that. In short, I am striving to develop our public schools in a quality manner. I'm not against private development, that kind of thing and that kind of thing. If we have opted for a system – and obviously we have – because this law is also going in this direction – to co-finance such specific schools, even fine, but I cannot agree to a completely equal funding for both schools. Because, as has been said in the debate, I will conclude: “Yes, you know, these private schools have very large waiting periods, but unfortunately not all children can come because they are too few.” Yeah, sure. Why do they have great waiting periods? Because there are 15 kids in class and 30 kids in my class. Because there's a nicer infrastructure there, and we're worse off. And because even if they put them in this school, it doesn't cost them anything more than putting them in that school, normal. But if we support this, but in the long run it will certainly mean a poorer quality of public schools, I am sure of that. That is why, of course, I will be happy to support this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The last on the list of discussers is Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much. After this implementation, man has nothing more to say because Mrs Masha Kociper has said everything, the whole essence of what the Government is proposing today. The whole point. A colleague earlier said: “Private education departs from the model of the country in which we live.” That's exactly what he said. I think there's almost nothing left to add. I would just like to say here to Mrs Kociprovi: yes, I have one child out of three in private school, but in high school, you know, not at primary school. And when I enrolled him in high school, I enrolled him on his wishes, with my great doubts, which I have said in public many times, because I also disagreed – go to the diocese – with certain things because I thought it was like you say, but in the morning they pray. No! No! You've made a mistake. Well, Mrs Kociper, I'm just telling you, first of all, you're wrong, I don't have a child in a private elementary school, and I don't pray in the morning or in the evening. The lies you're wasting here -- I say, you've told everything, in fact. I have a kid in high school at his will, because he never saw her again, she's a daughter, she never saw herself in this school system again, and she chose this, with my great doubts, today I am very grateful for her decision. Very grateful, as you say, “so let them pay”. We're paying, yeah. I'm paying my tuition. And I knew I was gonna pay for it, and there's no problem at all. I would pay more because, as you say, private schools adapt and bring a piano to their mistress if necessary. You ask yourself why public school doesn't do this. [[advertising from the hall]] But no, no — because they can't adjust. Because at 2:00 a.m., some teachers look and say, "Wait, I'm going home." I was a teacher myself, and I know exactly how those things were. So, look, if public schools adapt – now the criticism will fly, but here I answer Mrs Maša Kociper, not those who study in public or private schools or teachers, far from that, I answer the lady who has been deceiving today for five minutes by lying to God for help. But I can only say dear God if the Members are thinking in this direction. Two Catholic primary schools that are carrying out six essentially private schools, and even one of them is funded 100 percent – does this not bother you? 100% is funded by the Waldorf School, which was established in 1995/1996. That's okay? I'm saying, you've told everything, private education departs from the model of the country we live in, prays there, of course, washes people's brains there. I will not explain what is happening in public schools – as in private, everyone has good and bad sides. I won't, so I won't embarrass my children, because they can experience ridicule at school. One and the other, I'm not talking about any, but I'm just saying that I answered these lies that were given or told. Yes, private schools pay above standard today, and that's fine. So, that extended part, that superstandard that follows the partisan interests of a private school, parents are already paying today and they will be in the future, and that's right. If a private school has religion and culture in its work, Latin, it brings piano mistress or piano teacher and so on, parents pay for it, and they know it in advance. And there's no problem with paying for this job. Of course, the problem is by paying for what you cancel with the novel, i.e. by paying for the extended programme, individual study hours, group study hours, supplementary study, additional study and optional selection content. This is a problem because the school has to offer this, otherwise it cannot implement a public policy. In this part, there is a problem that the Constitutional Court is also talking about. You have also talked a lot about constitutional judges or that some of us are already prejudging what will be the constitutional decision below. This, of course, can be understood and hypothetically discussed from all these separate opinions and from the Constitutional Court. It is unacceptable, however, that it is said that they are constitutional judges — who is right and who is left and how almost best it is to abolish the Constitutional Court. This is indeed unacceptable, as a colleague from the SMC said, that the assessments are given in relation to constitutional judges, because this is a message to the public that the Constitution, after all, also the Constitutional Court in Slovenia, applies absolutely nothing. And it is also unacceptable for me to give labels to a judge or a constitutional judge and not take him anywhere. About elitism. Can you tell me how many of your colleagues are on your side, I'll say on this side, have children in private schools? Or how many of you? I won't tell you, but that's the elite, yes. That's the elite. That's why you can talk about elitism. I find it very interesting that even people who have children in Catholic private schools today have a very broad explanation of how these schools should not be financed and so on. That makes a man feel sorry for himself. The hypocrisy that appears is incredible. So you put a child in a Catholic private school, but at the same time, in public, you explain clearly and loudly how these schools should not be financed. That's, you know, that's not right. I don't think so and let such colleagues warn you that they're just saying something in public and they're doing something else. As far as elitism is concerned, you say, not everyone can take children to a private school in Maribor, Ljubljana, anywhere. They have a choice, but maybe they can't, as colleague Han said, but let's be clear and loud about the fact that private schools can't be set up where public schools or public schools are at risk, I'm going to allow myself to use that term. This is provided for in Article 87 of the ZOFVI. So you cannot set up a private school even where a branch school is already possible or a home school is at risk. The next issue is, clearly and loudly, that private schools do not receive money from the country or are not financed from the state budget infrastructure. The deputy has to invest himself in infrastructure, material, teaching and so on so that he can set up a private school. Therefore, shouting if you give in Radice and don’t know where we don’t all have private schools — there are many reasons for this. Because if it were that simple, then probably these schools would have fallen apart a lot sooner or not if – or maybe maybe, I don't know if I'm going to wait for – 100% to be funded by the public programme. Of course, this money does not finance the school. However, I propose to my colleague Kociprov that she examine the cash flows she talked about, that she will have a clear picture of how private people serve, where they rent loans and so on. Then it will also be easier to discuss how private people serve fat at the expense of the state. Waldorf schools also open on the periphery, if you want, if there is a Žalec periphery for Ljubljana, then we have in Žalec, Naklem and Ajdovščina, so they also approach the periphery; for those who think it is a periphery. I still insist, my opinion is that in this law, which is proposed today by the Government, a decision can be reached again in the Constitutional Court, and I still believe that the Constitutional Court will decide that this law too, if adopted, is, of course, unconstitutional. Colleagues at the SMC are giving some kind of security guard to accept only in the first reading or in the first reading definitively, and then they'll see how things go. We have tabled the law five times in terms of 100 % of public funding, and already in the previous mandate, when this unacceptable barrage occurred on the committee, in formula 100/85, 100/65, 100/0, we said that we remain on principle 100/100. Because if with the formula 100/0 or 100/65 you follow the constitutional decision, then also with 100/64, 100/85, so it is for me again completely pure bartering. The Minister said that in this proposal they followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, to whom they should trust, if not them. I am pleased that the Minister trusts them, i.e., the coalition will now either for the first time or trust them for the first time, because otherwise they are getting into the law-law service. I am surprised that the Minister did not take into account the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which gave a completely different opinion. Now I don't know if he knew that and it just came to the government or whatever, but it's really interesting that he trusts the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, I think that we have even had cases – but I do not know now if in this mandate, I will not argue that something will not go wrong – when the ministries have almost argued on the boards with the ZPS on their opinions. In addition, it is interesting that the Minister says that they have taken the opinion of the ZPS into account here, but has not, for example, been taken into account in an article referring to the distinction within the meaning of Article 86 in the first paragraph, the last indent, which states that private schools must have at least 80% of teachers or educators required to carry out the programme of public service. In fact, the SPS said that you provide that private schools must have employees when they acquire public programmes, while public schools and public schools, and Article 34, paragraph 33, say that when they want to verify primary school, there is a sufficiently attached declaration that the conditions relating to the provision of professional workers with the required education will also be met before the start of the activity. So you are already different in this part and here the ZPS has made it clear that private schools must already have employees, while other schools must only make a statement that they will have a qualified staff at the beginning. So, Minister, I'm wondering why you didn't take the opinion of the ZPS into account in this part, if you're already in the funding line. Today I think it's six times this law. It shows, therefore, that even in the National Assembly there is no unity in this proposal, not by the coalition, to the extent that it was understood, and that funding is the least problem. This was demonstrated by the last discussions, including the position of Levice, which was very gravely charged with the Constitutional Court. As long as such ideological barriers as have been shown and spoken today, in the National Assembly, then there will definitely be no consensus here, at least on the side, along with the opposition. Because you're obviously only disturbed by those Catholic schools. The deception you're making is also unacceptable to me. I'll finish up here. It is difficult, I say, after six cases of the same law, to say anything else or to convince anyone else. Clearly, we're on two ideological shores, and that's what separates us. This also separates citizens and still divides us into those who want to decide freely on the upbringing of children, on their lives, on what the Constitution gives us, and on those who think that all countries need to prescribe regulations and regulate our lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The replica has Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u192	I never once insulted Mrs Godec in my debate, while she told me that I was a liar and that I had lied for five minutes. I lied to her, but she said that she had children in primary school, which is not true because she had them in high school, and that I lied because I said they were praying in the morning and in the evening. Interestingly, I can no longer find it on the website of the Aloysy Schuštar Primary School, but it was — and my colleagues confirmed it — morning and evening they worship God. What does that mean other than prayer, I don't know. And I never said they serve fat. So, you're deceiving and insulting you and those who [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government as a proposalr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I'm not going in particular. It's been said a lot today. I think it is also right that we have such a general debate. On the committee, if we get to a second reading, of course we will be able to complement this proposal if this proves necessary. I'd like to say maybe two or three things. These are really technical little things, but it's only right that our people who listen to this also understand. One was when it came to where children are going or how they consume this right to choose. It has been said that a child can go anywhere further, but of course we can start to wonder about the child’s benefits. And the first must be the child's benefit if we're talking about it. But let's just leave it at that. It's really small. What they are not, however, is what we have been talking about, but this 87th Article of the ZOFVI, which does not speak or in any way prohibits the establishment. No, no, he's talking about funding. That's not the same thing. It's a lot of times here, even today in the choir, it kind of went in a synonymous way, but it's not. That's one thing. Establishment is one thing, it is a constitutional right to raise children individually in accordance with our beliefs, such and different. Of course, what I have also said at the outset is the question, to what extent and in what way the State must also pay it from public funds. But it must not, it must not limit the right to have schools set up on one side and then to have parents in these schools also enrolling these children. The third thing, perhaps, is only so much that our people will understand once more. What you mentioned, Madam Member, is, of course, branches, and so on in Žalec. Technically, they're organizational units and they're not independent schools. And then it has a slightly different status. Otherwise, if I may, because I do not know if I will be given the floor, I would like to thank all Members and Members for the debate. I think that the debate was as always – sometimes emotional – when it comes to such a question. But thank you. I think we've made a lot of things clear, and we've told people at home how things are. Only such a debate can actually lead things forward. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Minister. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three debaters, each gets five minutes. The first is Jani Ivanusha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u196	That's a nice greeting from me! I'm not even gonna spend five minutes away from this. However, I would like to draw attention to one problem that has arisen here today, that is that I have been listening to this debate since 3 p.m., and that is now five hours, and I have come to the view that we are still not clear on the Constitutional Court's decision. That's a fact. That's perfectly clear. The rules must be clear and the decisions of the courts must be clear. And in this case, I have a feeling that this matter is not clear. Since the minister himself said that he had turned to the legislative service of the National Assembly, the legislative service of the Government was a different opinion. This is unacceptable, so I call on the Government to return to the Constitutional Court and to ask the interpreter what this decision means. Now it is a five-year-old decision that this has not happened, that no one has sought an interpreter to explain, explains this constitutional decision – that is the problem. Because then I hear on this side that it is, on the other hand, I hear that it is, and it took five hours. It is not clear whether the decision refers to a mandatory programme or plus an extended programme. That's it. Mr. Secretary, take the interpreter and you'll know everything. Then let's not do anything wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Here's what I'm gonna say. Dear Minister, all fellow Members and Members of Parliament, it is clear that we have the best school system in Slovenia, the best public schools or perhaps the best in the world. We are at least the best in Europe and, of course, in the European Union. If we look quickly on the Internet and then I see the Independent putting us on the 17th place in the European Union, it is said that in Europe we would probably be a little bit lower, they are talking about top-notch systems in Japan, Finland. However, in my working age I have also looked at our schools and I will say that, somehow, Finland is very good, Belgium is very good at the system, Switzerland is very good, Slovenia, I believe, public schools, very good. But today we are also talking – I will say, it applied to both public and private. I would not like to define myself because I think it is right that we also have the best minister and the best secretary, so that we will have the best results in schools. And more importantly, if private schools were bad, all those people who pay them would have to get the kids out right away. Because what we pay for isn't good, then we always stop buying. So these schools can't be so bad, and in a way, there's just a little competition that we can have. This is the kind of competition that I would like in public schools, so that parents can also have kids maybe, I don't know, in another school environment, if they have that school, I'll say, better quality and children come out more viewed, more prepared for life and high school. So today we are discussing a proposal for amendments to the law on financing education and education. There was a heated debate in the public, that is, parents who already have or would like to enroll their children in a private elementary school will again be suspended by these corrections. We're clear here. The funding will now be settled, as we have already said several times today, with the public programme being divided. I believe that this will then go through as we said – that we will not miss the constitutional decision. Because in this country, we've been doing this for a good time. The new Members must stick to the fact that we will not be old, I will say, to imitate in those inconsequential things as they were in 1998 and so on, and then we will go and change the constitution to avoid a constitutional decision. So if the Government's legislation says that the initiators of the constitutional opinion by means of the proposed arrangement for the financing of private primary schools are in a worse position, then I don't know how we can now argue that again this constitutional decision is not being carried out as we are ordered. That is, the honourable Minister and fellow Members, I do not know if there is any deceiving, and it is well carried out, that we will not once again comply with the Constitution in a faultless and unconditional manner. We should meet it unconditionally in any case and comply with all constitutional decisions. If I say he wants to limit himself and prevent private schools from spreading too quickly like mushrooms in the rain – these are statements, and so, I will also say, maybe a little sometimes, we hit back, we're against, but it's not about being pious in these parties, but people would be rooting for these six private schools, but the fact that there's a bit of a burden, it's a little limited because of some of those old ones – what is it already? – ideologies that were very present in the former socialist country, and some of this is certainly to be left. Now let us ask ourselves whether it is right and whether it is democratic for democratically elected Members of Parliament to behave undemocraticly, cowardly and openly to restrict the formation of private schools, to say that someone is a thorn in our heel. Private schools, private schools, we fear as the devil's cross. It's hard to believe. In this new reference, I believed that things would be fixed and not imitated. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Your time is up, I'm sorry. Thank you. He's got the word "Cygler's Turtle." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u200	Dear Mr. Minister, with the co-workers and the ones we've just stayed here! I want to answer two of my colleagues and a colleague, but they're gone. I would just like to say this: when I referred earlier to the excellent contribution of the Saturday annex to the practical authority for the philosophy of education in our country, of course, Zdenka Kodelja, he wrote an excellent summary of today's debate and the title of the Horizon has an understanding of public education is changing, this is true. When formerly a very pleasant colleague, Alenka Jeraj, said that when I said why they rejected private schools – for purpose, I would not speak for others – children with special needs, she said, because the Ministry did not provide them with the conditions for the provision of additional professional assistance or did not give them this. That's not true. The individual right of the child arises from the guidance decision and the Ministry of Education finances the implementation of additional professional assistance. But the school is the one that has to provide a defectologist, a logopedo, a special teacher and so on. Celje public schools provide and seek this. If they can't, they'll go to the Department of Education for help. And that's how private schools are supposed to do it, not reject a child. That's the first one. But as for his colleague Gregor Perič, it was a pity that he went out, and I gave him a moment to wait until I could tell him back, just as I listened to him, or a very nice colleague of Jelka Godec, I would say this. The Left has never in this Chamber today claimed that we are against the Constitutional Court's decision or against its respect. No, no, no. We have evaluated it in value and moral terms and, in parallel, gave last year's adopted decision by the Constitutional Court, which said that dedicated public health resources in the private sector, as far as expenditure is concerned, can be used for non-use, for profits, for yachts and so on. A similar case is now concerned with the Constitutional Court's decision on education. In fact, it is not just our opinion, it is shared by many lawyers who have in the past warned that the Constitutional Court is putting itself on the democratic body that is the law, this is our National Assembly, and repealing the decisions of our democratically elected Parliament or only making decisions, as has been said to establish one congregation. In this sense, I wanted to say to Peric, that his president, Cerar, also wrote: “In the professional and laity public, it is often the impression that the Constitutional Court, or the majority of it, has taken a certain direction in favour of specific political options or individual political parties or groups of parties.” That's what Cerar said. However, it was written in 1997 in theory and practice. Levica has already proposed in the previous mandate that the 57th Article of the Slovenian Constitution should be amended if we want to eliminate this found unconstitutionality and at the same time draw a clear distinction between private and public primary schools and establish an appropriate way of financing them. Therefore, we must also amend Article 57 of the Constitution in an appropriate and unambiguous manner. That we are right also confirms that the Constitutional Court of 2001 and the Constitutional Court of 2002 adopt two contrary opinions. In the event that this matter is settled, this more precise wording of Article 57 will be adequately narrowed down, or the space will be completely narrowed down for different interpretations, and, firstly, it will be clear how public education or private education is financed and, secondly, there will be no more room for one ideological political struggle that has taken place here today and will go completely away from those essential problems of our education and education system, which we have confirmed by all Members that the network of public schools in our country is quality and good and for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-19-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 20 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 9th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
