ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Maša Kociper, Ferenc Horváth, Matjaž Germany from 17:00 on, Aljaž Kovacič from 14.30 on, Lidija Dijak Mirnik from 16:00 on and Anja Bah Žibert. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 15th, 16th and 17th items of the agenda, mag. Duško Year, Director of the Energy Agency, 20th agenda item and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I warmly welcome you. This brings us to the agenda of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 8 November 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Thank you. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 13th meeting of the National Assembly is set. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 58 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to present the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, they have a total of five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the Minister of Culture mags apologized for today. Zoran Poznic, Minister responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Mr Peter Jožef Česnik, Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bertoncelj, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Jernej Pikalo from 18:00 onwards and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandra Pivec. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving the Government to raise the questions raised by the Members. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarec. The first question will be raised by Mr Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much. In Slovenia, we treat our own citizens very stepmotherly or strangely, while we are very kind to foreigners. If we take the number of maintenance family members in Slovenia, we see that since 2009 the number of applications for maintenance family members has fallen. After 2015, it is growing again. So last year, 4 thousand 106 forms were filed, and this year it's almost as much as that. I want to know: What will be done about these matters? If Cantharutti brings 3,000 Filipinos to Slovenia, will we take care of them? We are already concerned about various representatives, for whom one would say that I do not know how our ministries rank them, when they have already written in this table in 2009 that the Republic of Northern Macedonia exists, but that the Republic of Northern Macedonia has only been a Republic of Northern Macedonia since this year. But here in the tables it is written that it is already in 2009, in 2010 and so on. It's funny how our state authorities deal with this. In addition, we have here one country of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba and in 1912 there were five children from there, in 2016 there were four and then just in the beautiful year 2018 there were nine. What are we doing here? We don't care about Slovenian citizens, but I don't know where we're taking care of children. It's basically a stepmother's function and concern. If we look at how many such children have been permanently and temporarily inhabited in Slovenia, we can get to the number 23 000 410. These are children who have been brought or have not been brought, but they are spent on the sands and for these children in Slovenia or about EUR 24 million for their supplements. That's not much. About two million euros a month. However, if we look at the recipients of social transfers in general, we see that there are around 8.3 million euros per month for foreigners. It totals around EUR 100 million per year. I ask, Mr President: What are you going to do in this area? Do you intend to settle these matters in the way you should, for the benefit of Slovenian people, Slovenian citizens, do you think you will continue to "further" foreigners?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you for asking. The expected issue, given that you are a Slovenian national party and have already come to Parliament in 1992 with similar views, is that I congratulate you on your consistency. But as far as your question is concerned, I'd spend a few hours trying to get through all the matter you've mentioned. The fact that you mentioned Mr Cantharutti and the 3,000 Filipinos is the easiest way to say it is then to share it and it is the case for you as an opposition party. But this is a slightly more complex problem. The fact is that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology also has in place measures to make it easier to obtain work permits or faster for those who would like to work here because businesses need them. We know that there is a problem in some companies, because there is a shortage of labour. Where there is no domestic workforce, this must also be taken into account and also follow this path. Maybe some information about valid residence permits. On day 31. Ten. 2019 in the Republic of Slovenia 86 000 710 third-country nationals have valid residence permits and 76 000 639 third-country nationals have valid residence permits. That's a total of 163 thousand 349. The maximum number of uniform residence and work permits in force shall be among the applicable temporary residence permits. However, there are valid temporary residence permits due to family reunification and studies. The most valid residence permits are for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, followed by citizens of Kosovo and Serbia. On day 31. Ten. 2019 In the Republic of Slovenia, 12 thousand 130 citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area had valid residence certificates and 16 thousand 145 citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area had valid residence certificates. So total 28 thousand 275. Surely, as you say, there has been some kind of abuse. That's a fact, too. It's just like any other thing. But we have been dealing with this for some time. But I wouldn't label it as you have labeled it, so you said, "we beat strangers, but we don't give to the locals." These are a few depressed expressions. There is a shortage of labour and where there is not enough labour, it is certainly necessary to obtain people from abroad. This is not our specialty, it is still the same in the European Union. I would answer this question so much that your allegations that 3,000 Filipinos will come and that Mr Cantautti is already taking them are not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you. Well, with regard to the Filipinos he intends to bring in, I think we have a whole bunch of Filipinos in the workplace. There's like a hundred thousand people reported there. So we can get the Filipinos there. However, with regard to abuse, it must be said that there are strange things at the Ministry. Here you have indicated that there are thousands of 236 children from an unknown country and from another unknown country an additional 17. Then I don't know when Palestinian occupied territory is a country. Then we have kids here from ex Czechoslovakia. Czechoslovakian no longer exists since 1992. It is said that this child should be over 26 years old in order to be a child. All of this is indicated in official documents issued by the Ministry. But it's true that this is also about administrative units that don't do their job. I think we should shoot a lot of things. After all, if we only take Slovenska Bistrica, in Slovenska Bistrica people are married to Russians, and every two months they must receive one additional paper and a certificate of knowledge of the Slovenian language. While Kosovars, who are there every day, need nothing. In a few days they get all the documents and papers and people there say that in Slovenian Bistrica they get everything for money. When are you going to “convey” these administrative units, which are 58 and tie them back to the congregations, which would make a lot more sense? How can social work centers simply give stamps for everything? Who's to blame here? Is the mayor guilty in certain places or is he an administrative unit or is he a city council? What are the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doing? You do not control whether these children from these countries are entitled to any supplement or payment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u9	This is one of the shortest answers in the history of this House. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your opinion, I see that the Prime Minister is not aware of this issue and that the ministries are probably concealing it to him, but they are also concealing it to the ministries of a certain administrative unit. Maybe we should get all these institutions out of the way, see what someone's doing. I think that the Ministry of the Interior could also check who gets the money and where the money comes from, how the paper is obtained, who gets it, who doesn't get it, and how quickly someone gets it, while someone else doesn't get it. For example, if we are talking about Kosovars, these very quick ones get permission to bring the family here. While those who come to work here and get married here have problems. Perhaps the problem is that certain people who adhere to the law do not want to bribe their employees. Maybe that's the biggest problem. I think it would make sense for this to open up in a broader debate, to open up these matters, to show all the data to bring everything that is and what is not, to ask for these administrative units and then to discuss it. If we don't do this, the money is running out, and what's on the beautiful 100 million here, 25 million there, that's the money we're throwing out the window and not picking up what we could from Europe, but rather putting it on the shoulders of our citizens. In short, it's not good what's going on. Mr. Prime Minister, I think you have a lot of work to do in this area. In this regard, I also propose that we hold a debate on this subject in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your motion on Thursday as part of the vote. And now you have the word, Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Prime Minister, your government counted 16 ministers on the day of the performance last year. There were concessions, exchanges, five ministers left you after a good year, while others left you for the development of strategic projects and cohesion. Since Dr Iztok Purič's resignation, it has been almost two months, and we have not yet received your proposal with the name of the new Minister or Minister for this area. You obviously don't realize how important this field is. This is a resource that depends to the extent possible on how well we draw on European funds. Let me remind you, Madam President, we're not doing well, not at all. We are the sixth worst in the European Union after European funds have been drawn. If we look at the numbers, after six years of financial perspective, we have absorbed only 812 million by the end of September, which means a little over 26% of 3.1 billion, so that the numbers are still good. I estimate, Mr Šarec, that you are no longer aware of the fact that these European funds that we still have as a net recipient are, in fact, the only development funds for the country and also extremely important development funds for the local community. That is precisely why you, as Prime Minister of the Government, should do everything possible to actually draw on these funds. Today, if we look at it, we still have around 2.3 billion European money in Brussels, which unfortunately we have not yet been able to obtain in Slovenia. And it's also money that can reduce differences in the development of individual regions, but more than obviously this is not a priority for you. You are not aware of the fact that there is a new financial perspective ahead of us, that very important negotiations are now under way for the new financial perspective 2021-2027. And that depends on how much resources we get, what we can spend them for, and when we can use them. Dear Prime Minister, if anything, that should be your priority. I want to know: When do we get the name of a new minister covering cohesion in the National Assembly? But above all, I want to know: Why are you waiting so long for your appointment? What are you going to do to actually be among the six best countries after the withdrawal of funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your question. The word is yours, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much for after one month again the question on this subject. Last month, I was answering to Ambassador Horvath. No, it's not true that nothing's changed. One month ago, we had less information than we have today. So we managed to pump more in one month. Thank you for teaching me that negotiations are under way for the budget, because I did not know that until now. Thanks for living in a cloud so far, and I didn't think that was happening. If you said we were doing well as a government, I'd start to worry about what's wrong. I'm sorry that you have the answers to all the questions and that you know everything, but you didn't put together the government, and you didn't. As far as the Minister is concerned, I will propose it to the National Assembly when the SAB party gives me a new name. As you know, it's coming from the quota of the SAB. The Ministry is temporarily headed by Mrs Alenka Bratušek, so the Ministry is certainly not without guidance. Last but not least, you know how this is done, because in 2012 you led with five ministers to the end of 16 or how many sources, so that you would not lose words about leaving ministers and these matters. All ministries have their ministers and operate. As far as cohesion policy is concerned, however, yes, this is certainly one of the priorities and we are very well aware that this is European money, which is still very important. Last but not least, in the previous perspective, we were dealing with 11 other projects, which were then included within this perspective. To date, in Brussels, we have justified spending of €848.3 million in the new perspective, which is already certified expenditure, i.e. 27.6% of everything that Slovenia has available. Like I said, last month, that information was a little lower. At the end of 2018, we were at 24.2 %. I agree that progress could be higher, but progress is progress. We've had a lot of problems, I don't want to repeat myself, even with the information system and so on. The implementation of projects and programmes is now in full progress. Currently, 4 000 624 have been implemented in Slovenia, with €2.54 billion in financial support decisions for projects, programmes or public calls, representing 83% of the available funds. After individual ministries have been launched, projects and programmes totalling EUR 2.03 billion and 66% of the available resources are implemented on the ground and some more than EUR 872 million, i.e. 28% of the available resources, have been paid from the State budget to the beneficiaries. Problems with the information system are more or less addressed. This does not mean that the problems are no longer problems, they are manageable and do not jeopardise the absorption and implementation of cohesion policy in Slovenia. With the resignation of Minister Purič, nothing has changed, the Ministry is working further. Like I said, he's being temporarily led by Mrs. Alenka Bratušek. Projects are running and I believe that we will make even greater progress in the future. But it is true, as I said before, that we have been saving projects from a previous perspective and that we have also been given a status quo. But you can ask the same question again next month, and I believe there will be some progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u16	Yes, thank you. I'm not happy with the answer. Dear Prime Minister, you have been ruling for over a year and, last but not least, it should be in your interest to have a full ministerial team and ask your coalition partners to actually get that name sooner, if it is up to them. But we do know that the previous minister was also from this quota. When we look at the dates, Mr Bandelli resigned on 13 November, on 3 December we already had a hearing on the committee responsible and on 22 December already a new minister. In fact, it was only one month before the appointment of a new minister. It's more than obvious that you could speed these things up a little bit because you know these things. As regards the negotiations for a new financial perspective, the President-in-Office of the Government, it is likely that no one is involved in these negotiations. There's probably a difference between someone at the ministerial level or one of the lower officials. Europe is taking us on a par with this, and that is why we have the results we have in the end. Let me remind you, when you mentioned the previous programming period, if we compare the current financial perspective with the previous one, then we have absorbed 37% in the six-year period, whereas now only 26%. This means that we are significantly weaker in this financial perspective. Let me remind you, we had to return 60 million euros because we did not draw on the funds in line with our implementation plans. This is the fourth financial year of this financial perspective in the European Union. Dear Minister, I ask you again to answer my question: When will you have a full team, and what will you do to make the pumping significantly better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you. If I limit myself to the 60 million you mention, Slovenia has returned €60.7 million of unused annual advances to the European Commission this year. However, the return of annual advances does not, of course, mean that Slovenia has lost European funds. For these reimbursements, liquidity in the Bank of Slovenia sub-accounts, which are not yet linked to individual priority axes, is not yet the revenue of the national budget which Slovenia receives from pre-payments to accounts opened for the implementation of cohesion policy, until it is reasonably spent on specific projects and is previously based on the national budget, if we are talking about these 60 million. As for concrete measures, as I said, we have had problems with the information system that we have eliminated. As far as the minister is concerned, he'll be appointed in time if you give him the vote. And you probably won't. Don't worry, it'll all be in time, just like it has to be. But when you're in the government, you'll take care of the ministers. Today the situation is as it is. As I said, the minister will be appointed when I get a name from a client of the SAB because it's in her quota. You too, when you had the government, you had ministers from different quotas, so don't worry, everything will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Madam Members, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I propose, of course, that we open this matter up and discuss it at the next meeting of the National Assembly. What we have heard today from the President of the Government is really just a diversion or he does not really realize how important this resource is and what should actually be done here. You mentioned 60 million that we had to return them. That's right. But why did we bring them back? Because we have not fulfilled the plan we have actually set ourselves in the country. Europe will give us advance payments on purpose so that we do not burden national budgets. Prepayments are made according to a plan that we make ourselves, and we do not know how to do it. What does that mean? That we are no longer able to draw on the speed we have set ourselves. And don't make me think it's good. It's not good at all. In fact, only numbers are important. To date, we have absorbed slightly more than 26%. It's that money we actually get back. We still have more than 2 billion in Brussels. And if this isn't some topic we should be talking about as a matter of priority, then I don't know what the topic is for the National Assembly, and not least for your government. Therefore, honourable Members, President of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a debate on this subject at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your procedural proposal. We will vote on Thursday as part of the vote. We are moving on to the third oral question for the Prime Minister of the Government. Dr. Franz Duck, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Honourable President of the Thirteenth Government of the Independent Republic of Slovenia! In this beautiful book, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen who designed our independence also wrote Article 78, which reads: “The State creates opportunities for citizens to get a suitable apartment. Resorientation policies to deal with this are called housing policies." For the past 30 years, frankly, this society and the state have not had serious housing policies. This is not the personal opinion of Dr. Franca Duck, this is the position of the professionally large majority of people who deal with this issue. We can start with the Izbinšk Law when the profession warned at the time that one third of the owners would have no money, as I say they would have maintained the housing fund after they retired, had even fewer. I can continue with my generation when, in the quiet heat of the Bank of Slovenia, it was “stressed” with toxic credits in Switzerland. I can continue with the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which builds apartments and sells them for more than EUR 3 000 per square metre, which means, Mr President of the Government, if we buy a square metre so that we don't have to stay for yogurt. Maybe we can borrow from Karl Erjavac. We can move on. DUTB's non-transmissions that we proposed when we were still trying to work with your government in a serious way, in short, that the country is actually pushing the price of the bottle itself, in its own words. The abolition of non-profit dwellings without consideration, which is forecast, the airbending especially Ljubljana and finally the latest proposals, which saddens me, including the Youth Council of Slovenia, which are still young mostly of old politics, let us credit young people for some too expensive concrete for 30 years. Indeed, what housing policy is supposed to be in the last 30 years cannot be called housing policy. Unless it's a housing policy that you make extra profits to someone with too expensive to build usually poorly constructed apartments, often with unpaid subcontractors. In fact, we can have a task because for 30 years nothing has been done, we need to move somewhere and finally start dealing with housing policy, because I do not want to watch tents again before the National Assembly next spring, when young generations actually warn us that we do not have housing policy that we do not implement Article 78 of the Constitution. I hope to receive a substantive reply now, Mr Sarec, because, under Article 110 of the Constitution, any government is in line with the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You'll get your answer. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Because that wasn't an opinion, I'm going to answer. I'm sure the last 30 years have been too small, or we wouldn't talk about it. First of all, how about more apartments? Some important steps have already been taken. With DUTB we have already moved three lands to the Housing Fund in Ljubljana, New Town and Novi Gorica, where there will be a total of 90 houses and 589 apartments, most of which is 372, in the capital. There will be a transfer of six additional land, three in Ljubljana and one in Vrhnika, in Upper Gameljna and Šmaru near Koper. Two plots are already suitable for the building. There will be 188 new dwellings in the next two years, although there will be a thousand 170 new dwellings in all six locations. There is also the construction of the neighbourhood – 500 rental apartments, Novo Brdo, which will be accommodated in 2021, also a pilot project for young Gerbičeva, which brings 109 apartments. If I withdraw the data, forecasts of the Housing Fund: a thousand 500 apartments are under construction, and financial resources are provided. The Fund is currently investing more than €200 million in total, at the same time preparing for the construction of a thousand more 500 apartments, a total of 3,000 new rental apartments. I can go back to these numbers. Then there's a second set of solutions. And that brings about a renewed housing law. Another 10 days is time for public debate, which you can also see as some kind of invitation to constructive proposals. By listing just a few of the most important anticipated legal innovations. The Housing Fund will set up a public rental service, which will rent apartments on the market, broadcast them as a public service, which means that the rent will be cost-effective and not market-driven. The owners of the apartments will not be involved in the broadcast, for which the job will be done. I would provide them with regular income, and the market would significantly strengthen them with additional rental apartments, according to estimates by the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Geodetics Administration, even with an additional 20,000 apartments. Okay, that's their opinion. When we see this, we'll say it's true. Come in. The current non-profit rent will gradually become cost-effective. It will be higher, but these differences will not be paid by the tenants, and nothing will change for them, but it will be covered by the apartment allowance. With this higher cost rent, both the Housing Fund and the municipal funds will receive more money to maintain existing apartments and build new ones. The growth of the tenants will be limited. In one year, rents will increase to 10% and not to more than 15% in three years. The law still provides for a subsidy on rent. It also allows for an increase in the indebtedness of both the Housing Fund and municipal funds, from 10% to 50% of their capital. State guarantees are also provided for loans to cooperatives or citizens who solve the housing issue for the first time, but the form of employment or the amount of income does not allow them to obtain the credit on their own. The Housing Law provides only a basis for guarantees, so I have already ordered the Ministry of Finance to prepare a special guarantee scheme law as soon as possible. In doing so, let me mention the addition adopted to the law on the implementation of budgets, which provides for a 200 million-dollar increase in State guarantees both in the coming year and in 2021, in order to address the housing problem. This is also the response of the Government to the recent Bank of Slovenia measure regarding housing loans. If I snore. It's not true that nothing's moving. It's moving. The market will get the above-mentioned 3,000 new rental apartments. If I add those that would be broadcast through the public hire service, then the market could be strengthened by 5,000 additional rental apartments if we put Gurs and the ministry's forecasts in half. However, the coalition agreement states: 10,000 additional tenants, but not one in two mandates.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you. Thank you for your substantive reply, Mr. President of the Government. I can agree with you that some extensions have been made, but I am a man who really reads the budget, even to the last point. And in the budget, in fact, as I say, there's no such money. Just because you were talking, you'd basically need over 50 million people who aren't in there. It is also regrettable if we somehow declare that 10,000 apartments are what Slovenia is capable of actually doing in two mandates. Maybe we should go to Vienna together sometime to see what the best housing policy in the world is. Personally, I think that we are a rich enough society, but not mature, that we should actually be able to create at least 3,000 apartments a year and also some of the apartments that go through these schemes on the market in a way that the square meter does not exceed the average net salary. Which, of course, is possible if someone doesn't inflate the prices. The fact that much of Slovenian policy has solved the housing issue, whether in a way that someone gets a cheap loan, or the sale of land, that many children have employees in para-national, state-owned companies on good money, in particular energy, does not mean that we do not have all kinds of problems, particularly young people warn. But they're not just young. When it comes to long-term care, it is also necessary to talk about the autonomy of living together, about housing communities, about housing cooperatives. I can tell you that the current minister and I have been sitting and talking about this. But from what's been written down, which has been partially written down for the past 30 years, until we're going to have a total of three in a year and five years from now, at least five thousand apartments, there's a big breakthrough. And we're here looking for answers. I'm not happy with yours. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u28	Well, I believe you're not entirely satisfied, but there are questionable numbers on how many apartments we're able to build annually. I think that these figures are also based on realistic assumptions, taking into account the ability of construction companies and so on. If I've finished here before, let me continue with a few more reflections. The first is also connected with renting apartments through booking and airbnb, because especially in Ljubljana it consumes beds or rooms for those students who do not get them in their homes, while also inflating rents. I have instructed the Ministry to find the answer to the question of how to limit the broadcasting for tourist purposes. One of the answers may be a time limit on a certain number of days in a year, mostly over the summer. This would help students who have had access to apartments or private rooms over the years. And another thought, this is a lower tax on those who leave the apartment to the public hire service. This could also encourage owners to place empty apartments on the market. It's about tents you mentioned so you wouldn't want to watch. Nobody wants to watch these scenes over and over again. And maybe it's the right thing to do. I can't agree with you that nothing's moving. We're working this way, and I believe we're able to build apartments on this number that I mentioned. But I'd rather talk about smaller numbers, and then it's more realistic than talking about some high numbers right now, and then it would turn out that construction companies aren't able to build so many apartments as well. So much for thinking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u30	Yes, of course, which I have to define in substance. We're in some kind of budget session. The budget, as I always say, is a social contract expressed in the universal equivalent. The 90 of us are basically budgeted, the government is proposing it. We're all equally responsible, all 90. It is about what are some of the priorities of the budget. If we decide that the priorities of the budget are an appropriate solution to the housing problem not only for young people, there are 90 of us who actually make this decision and take this responsibility for the great joy of the Minister. The second time we talk about construction companies. There are also smaller construction companies that can join together, there are also residential cooperatives, and we have some history of self-building when these matters can be regulated. I'm gonna say, we can't actually buy an excuse like that. And there's another thing I mentioned earlier. Why do more than three quarters of people live in rental apartments in Vienna? Because it's also macroeconomically good. Because you haven't been credited over the bush for 30 years, as we say in the White Landscape, for some expensive walls, because you can use that difference in your pennies for something else, and you can generate better jobs, jobs with higher added value if you want. It is madness to force people to buy expensive apartments, just as madness is due to decay or the absence of serious mobility policies to force people to buy expensive cars. We brag about all the weights of being green, I don't know what, up, down, destination. If we want to be, we also need to start working seriously on these policies. It is more than obvious that, after 30 years of forgetting Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we need some serious general but focused debate on this subject, and a debate that also stems from a series of practices that we know in the European space. In the middle of the previous term, there are also some of my former students and others who have organised a very high-quality debate on all the possible forms of housing cooperatives we know across Europe. And we could go, Mr. Sarec, to a coffee in Lipnica, and there to the mayor, and we could talk about how they're doing with housing policy. We don't even have to go to Vienna if we're on time. It is high time we took this matter seriously. If you are looking at the analysis of why young people are fleeing abroad, yes, also because these basic, constitutionally assured policies are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u31	You gave an opinion, but you didn't make a procedural proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] We're moving on to question four. Mr. Predrag Bakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u32	President, thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, the latest events in the south-eastern part of our country and elsewhere have caused quite a stir to the public. People can say that in the past days, in the area of the Church and also in other places on the southern border, they observed a fully organized military formation that moved freely across the state border, camped there, carried out certain structures, training. Of course, it's a so-called guard. Her activities fill both domestic and foreign media. The public is further alarmed by recordings indicating that members of this guard carry weapons, which the media claim are replicas of real weapons. The peak of this event occurred when this group formed in Kočevska River at the place where it was first breathed after the Slovenian Army. There, with guns in their hands, some of them were disguised both with hats and eye-cutters, and even more, the formation then walked through you in this full formation with weapons and everything they had. This was quite upsetting for the inhabitants there, and many of them wonder what was going on. The presence of such a formation in this part of Slovenia is not, in my opinion, a coincidence. Illegal migration flows, as well as the general security situation and the illegal conduct of individuals or smaller groups, make the security situation in this area worse, as is known to everyone. Varda appears where people feel threatened, and on the one hand with the aim of gaining some new co-conspirators, and on the other hand, to increase the sense of danger. We can understand from the media that the police are aware of the presence and monitoring of this situation, but because they have not detected any offences or offences, there have been no measures. And that, in my humble opinion, is not true. I am convinced that all the actions and structures of this group or guards are the least fulfilled signs of a violation under the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, perhaps even after the Law on Public Assembly or some criminal offence under the Penal Code. Of course, I welcome the decision of the National Security Council last week to propose amendments at its regular meeting and to propose amendments to the Penal Code and to the provisions of the criminal rules, but it is far from that amendment. We all know how long it takes to change legislation and there is no time to act in my opinion. The establishment of such formations is widespread throughout the country, and this reminds me of some times in the 30th century. And that doesn't do any good. Especially since the monopoly of coercion that only the state must have is being tried to transfer to some other groups. And that leads to disaster and decay. I want to know: What will be done to stop this situation, to identify the violations I have directed, and to put in place appropriate procedures against perpetrators and organisers, so that people in this place can live in peace for once? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for asking. I can agree with you. What you said is true. Such matters also undermine the reputation of the State. Police, I must say, of course, he is following these people all the time and acting to the extent that the legislation allows him. The police are in control of them all the time, they say there's no movement of unsupervised people. We always know where they are, we know what they're doing. However, as you have already found out correctly, until they commit an offence that would be defined in the legislation, they cannot be deepened. This is why there are certain shortcomings in the legislation or in the domestic, loopholes in the regulations. For this reason, the competent ministries have been asked by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior to prepare amendments to the Penal Code and criminal regulations as soon as possible. Let me also remind you that in the recently adopted resolution on the national security strategy, we have written down the possibility of obtaining additional powers from the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency to deal with various extremisms, with a focus on preventive action. We all remember which coalition threw these provisions out of the resolution. Here we come up with one question, what do we want in Slovenia? When we had the statutory identification of the tables, which, by the way, all the countries had, this Constitutional Court rejected us or an information officer. When we had provisions on the house investigation, it was also thrown out by another institution, so we should not be surprised if our legislation is quite benign in certain cases. And we mustn't be surprised that if the police are working by law, then they're going to do things like this. A key message from the National Security Council was that the legislation was being amended; here, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice have the task of acting on the activities of self-declared village guards in law, because, as we both have established, it is not for anywhere to be said at home. And another problem is that police officers working at the border to protect the Schengen border now have to deal with monitoring these so-called units. But as for the success of defending the border, we have already said certain things. When it is decided whether Croatia belongs to Schengen or not, let us ask whether 14,000 illegal migrants, as many as we have already intercepted and returned to Croatia this year, are successful protection of the Croatian-Bosnia-Hercegovina border. If they did it the way they needed to, then we'd get them across the border as much as Austria gets from us. That's a negligible number. Those who tell us that we are poorly defending the border would at the same time release Croatia immediately into the Schengen area. Then here's the dissonance. Like I said, the legislation is in preparation. Both ministries have this task, and I believe that this legislation or legislative corrections can be adopted by the National Assembly as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for your answer. I'll dare take advantage of some of my premonitions that I had and explain. The Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace defines the violations that took place on the green border that I described earlier. The key is to obtain a person’s name and surname, which has made him feel threatened or disturbed. As far as I'm aware, the cops, because no one wants to expose themselves, didn't get anyone who wanted to expose themselves. So in this place, I can tell you, when I've been monitoring these videos myself and the media statements, if this is of course to help the police, that I felt upset and threatened myself, that is, with my name and last name. I believe that my fellow Members of the Group of Social Democrats also felt upset and threatened in this case. Actually, there's something else I'd like to point out. Recently, in the face of the poor security situation in Kočev, we appealed to all institutions and, among other things, we received an answer from the Attorney General, who taught the mayor in his letter with the following. I will read: “The existence of any organised, armed or paramilitary group in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia means, in itself, an unconstitutional situation and is not in accordance with European Union law, of which Slovenia is also a full-fledged member. In the event of a threat to anyone in a peaceful time, illegality or guilt may be excluded only through the use of legal institutions, such as extreme force or even silobrane. Different conduct in the establishment of so-called village guards or other armed or paramilitary groups could be identified as protection for a violent change in constitutional arrangements under Article 359 KZ-1. However, the existence of such groups can already represent an anti-constitutional situation.” And this, Madam President, should be followed in my opinion in this case as well. So far, we haven't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u38	Yes, Your Honor, you've got it right. If people feel threatened, if they file a report, then the police can act. But if the police come to someone's home and then they step away from the original opinion, of course the police can't do anything. However, if you feel threatened, you will probably report or perhaps even make a public statement now, and I believe that the police will act. You know, it's similar in family disputes, domestic violence, similar cases. There are many cases when the 911 call comes to the scene, tries to act, and then suddenly everyone involved decides differently, and the police can't act anymore. However, there are still some who need to ask what we want in this country. Do we want security, or do we want the security authorities to have sufficient authority to adequately protect citizens and citizens, or will we start to engage or engage more intensively in the human rights of the victims? That seems essential to me. This consideration will have to be carried out in our society in general. But no, yes, let's say the cop who fired the charge, because he was forced to do it, probably didn't just shoot it like that, at least not in most cases, and then he's treated as the worst criminal. You'll probably know that from your practice. So your question was still in place, and we're going to have to start asking questions about these things. When someone from the trucks takes us into the crowd, it'll be too late. Then I'd give the authorities and all the powers, but then it'll be too late. Then there will be no action. And there's something else you need to say. If the police do their job, and I think they do it well many times, they get stuck either in the D.A.'s office or in court. We both know that. We must not close our eyes here before this fact. We have cases like this and different, and it's no wonder that people don't trust them. Our task in this regard is to amend the legislation by allowing for the effective prosecution of such groups, making people feel safe and allowing police and police officers to focus on protecting the border rather than monitoring some weekends of campers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We continue in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the parliamentary questions raised at the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Culture Mag. Zoran Poznic should answer Mr Zvonko Černač's question about management and management of immovable cultural heritage, but he is absent today. I therefore ask the Member whether he insists on an oral answer or whether he wants a written answer. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I expect the Minister of Culture to give an oral answer to my question at the 12th meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer your question at the next meeting of the assembly. Mr Boštjan Poklukar, Minister of the Interior, will answer Mrs Nataša Sukič's question regarding the joint procurement of the installation and maintenance of the border wire and panel fences and joint and mixed patrols. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! A nice greeting on behalf of me, too, Your Honourable Member. Last time I was officially detained abroad, I was obliged to give an answer to your question. The Ministry of the Interior did not carry out the procedures for purchasing cutting wire and panel fences, but the purchase and installation of cutting wire and panel fence was carried out by the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Freight Reserves. It was really Minis, d. o. o., 12. 11. 2015 EUR 24 000 contract with value added tax. For the purposes of the construction, it was with the same company 26. 11. 2015 also concluded a contract of EUR 250 000 with VAT. The expenditure on this contract amounts to EUR 172 thousand 396.89 in 2016 to EUR 139 thousand 239.75 in 2017 to EUR 30 thousand 328.96 in 2018 to EUR 384.30 in 2019 to EUR 2 000 444.15. Up to now, 524 thousand 485.04 euros have been used to maintain the cutting wire and panel fence. The total costs of the Ministry of the Interior for the construction and maintenance of cutting wire and panel fences amount to EUR 720 000 882.02. We do not have data on the total costs incurred by the other ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of the Interior. During the period 2015-2019, the purchase of equipment for the purpose of monitoring the state border from external borders and internal security funds, i.e. European Union funds spent EUR 11 million 618 thousand 943, from which video surveillance equipment, service vehicles, boats, hand thermovisions, travel document-reading machines, Schengen, vehicle-diagnosis devices, document authenticity devices, the radar system at sea and so on, was purchased. Also during that period, 686 000 966.10 euro were used to purchase state border control equipment for the purchase of cameras, equipment and recorders on boats, fingerprint readers and similar equipment. In 2020, we allocate €2 million to buy new equipment for State border control to the European Union Fund. In 2020, it is planned to purchase the following equipment, namely vehicle underpass cameras, endoscopes, chassis mirrors, ladders, portable GPS devices, cameras, drones, telescopes, vehicles, lamps, short equipment required by police officers and police officers at the state border. A new financial perspective will be drawn up for 2021 on the basis of new EU regulations, and I am afraid that I cannot provide you with concrete data. As far as mixed patrols are concerned, you are well aware that as a member of the Committee on Internal Affairs, we are actually involved in mixed patrols both with Croatia, Italy, and partly with Hungary, where necessary, and in the cost of working on mixed patrols, police and police officers do not report separately, as it is only one form of regular work. While police work is carried out within the framework of regular working hours, this means that the additional costs of working in mixed patrols do not arise. Police officers in mixed patrols are subject only to the allowance that other police officers are entitled to in their work under the same working conditions, such as work allowances in less favourable working hours, work performance, permanent allowance and working hours. As far as the data is concerned, I have served you with all the numbers we have at the Ministry of the Interior and the police scheduled to control the state border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Member, do you have a follow-up reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, thank you for finally some more specific numbers. You forgot to answer one of the eight questions, but I'm asking you now. When I asked what was the effect of these mixed patrols or if I asked a little more ironically than my colleague Grims would ask you: How much money is it specifically about arresting one individual who illegally crosses the border? We might also ask for an answer if you have one today or as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u46	Yes, honourable Member, we do not actually have calculations to arrest one migrant, but it is still necessary to say that 14 thousand 500 and some other illegal migrants are at the Slovenian-Croatian border, at our Schengen border of success of the Slovenian police. According to statistics recorded by the police, most are returned to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of an agreement with the Republic of Croatia. Finally, Slovenia respects the Law on International Protection and the Directorate of the Ministry of the Interior is also implementing this procedure. We do not have this calculation, but these figures, which I have presented to you, are transparent, and I believe that they give you some insight into the fact that in recent years there has been a great deal of budget resources, both integrated and European funds, intended to protect the Slovenian-Croatian border, the Schengen border, that Slovenia provides good protection of the Schengen border, which is, in fact, also evident from the statistics of illegal migrants received. I believe that, in fact, because the Slovenian police are doing well, Slovenia is safe, because otherwise illegal migrants in cities, villages and, in fact, the level of security would in some way be threatened. Once again, I stress that Slovenia is implementing the Law on International Protection and that all those who declare themselves or want asylum and apply for asylum also go into asylum. However, I have to tell you again here that we have many requests to stop, because the asylum process is still being abused in some way. Even at the last meeting in Vienna, we have not found any more suitable solutions, although in fact, almost all over the world, we are talking about this. I believe that the work of the police is assessed both by NGOs and by the relevant State institution in the area of control and control of this monitoring. If there are specific violations, I believe you will also expose them or expose them, but for once the Slovenian police are working legally, professionally and in accordance with their powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Minister of Defence Karl Erjavec will answer Mrs Nataša Sukič's question about the irrational spending of significantly increased budgetary resources for defence in the future budget period. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I also thank Member Natasha Sukič for the question raised. This is mainly the issue of research and development. It's a specific order. At the same time, you note that increasing budgetary resources for defence expenditure also increases resources in the field of research and development. I would like to say that the Ministry of Defence wants to support, in particular, those companies that have specific knowledge and are also useful not only for building the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but also for the area of civil protection. You are referring to an order for a study on the acquisition of drones. As you know, these funds are not only used for defence purposes, but can also be very useful in the area of protection and resolution when we can, through these capabilities, determine what the actual situation is when it comes to the consequences of nature fires, floods and the like. If I return now to this particular case. First of all, I would like to say that this is not about ordering a study on the acquisition of drones, but it is about a study on the possibility of developing automated and autonomous operating support systems. Here I must say that we do not have adequate experts at the Ministry of Defence for such difficult matters, so we are helping ourselves with the knowledge that is in the Slovenian economy. Regardless of the small order, we have carried out the whole procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, which means that the procedure is transparent, that we have invited various companies with these knowledge, and the Ministry of Defence does not have this knowledge to participate in this call. Five companies came forward. The offer was from 10,000 euros and the most expensive offer was just over 58 000 Euros. A minimum bid of EUR 10 000 700 was chosen, oneDrone. We expect it not only to check which companies on the Slovenian market have this knowledge, but it will also prepare a study that will enable us to properly design research and development projects in the field of automated and autonomous systems for use on land, in air and in water. As we say, we now expect this study to be produced and based on it we will design a research in this area. That it is indeed a very professional work, let me say that this company should design professional proposals in relation to key technologies such as artificial intelligence and activity in the flock, communication equipment, resistance to interference and intrusion – this is a cyber security issue, then sensory for day-to-night operation, then for operating in extreme conditions, the use of alternative energy sources such as alternative propulsion based on hydrogen technology and fuel cells, the development of advanced algorithms. Let me say that this cooperation of the Ministry of Defence with Slovenian companies in the field of research and development is very successful. At this time, for example, we built a composite ski tour along with Elan, which is also a very successful product, then a tactical gun, drones, simulators, trainers for various weapon systems. I think that this very area that we represent – development and research – is proof that the Ministry of Defence can also work successfully with the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u50	Dear Minister, thank you very much. I believe it's complex things, even when it comes to high technology and so on. However, it is interesting that during the first phase of this cooperation this selected company OneDrone will only be a searcher for the identifier of local knowledge or other Slovenian companies that are supposed to have such knowledge. This frankly surprises me that one ministry is not only capable of drawing up a list of those few domestic companies with such knowledge as would be up to hundreds of such entities. This response is little convincing in the light of the fact that the country has been involved with this same company since 2015 and that 465 000 euros have already been allocated to this company for various services and products by the State. Your ministry alone has already paid this company EUR 14 000 637.81. Now that the drone test contract is concluded with this company, this is where this study fits. All right, I understand, it's complex, it's very difficult, but the first phase of the study is just identification, only a set of local knowledge of some companies that are probably already identified, but it's surprising that such a thing is being paid. So I'm wondering: Why is this company always here? You said it probably paid the lowest price, but, please, always the same company is in this picture. I also want to know: How do you comment on the fact that, in other countries, in such sensitive matters, when it comes to military equipment, however, state institutions carry out such matters, even when it comes to identification? It's actually very strange that we pay for such services. I understand that something more complex, but just the composition of a register, a set of these companies, please, but I think we'd be able to do it on our own at the Ministry. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much for this additional question. Once again, this is not about choosing a company to conduct a study on the acquisition of drones, but it is about a study entitled Options for the development of automated and autonomous operating support systems. I said it was a very specific area of expertise. Nor do I believe that other armies or ministries of defense have all this knowledge. This is always cooperation with research and development institutions. You deny that this company has always been selected in this area, but, as it is said, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. I would rather ask myself why one company has made a five-fold offer of EUR 58 000 for the same study and for the same work. It would be very uneconomic to choose a company that is more expensive. As far as state institutions are concerned, they are also bound to tender when it comes to scientific institutions. As it is said, there has been a choice of a company with this knowledge, with which we can also find that we have good cooperation, that there have never been any problems, for example, that something would not have been properly done in accordance with the signed contracts. Once again, I think that this particular area of R & D also allows those of our companies that have some special knowledge to give them some support. It would be more controversial for me to have chosen a foreign company with the same knowledge as a reference, because I think it would be right if we were already earmarking budget money and when it comes to defence spending and development and research to make this a goal for Slovenian companies. I'm glad this company made it. Of course, I cannot comment on why this company has ever been chosen. However, I must say that at the Ministry of Defence we have many of these companies, which are usually chosen for their quality, because of their expertise, that I do not speak when we are purchasing material resources, when it comes to the purchase of food and I do not know what, believe that we will usually find that they are the same and similar companies that are selected in these public contracts.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue and turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members. The first one will be mag. Marko Pogačnik asked the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertonclj, who was absent. Therefore, at the same time, I ask the Member whether he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u54	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. The Minister of Finance is absent today and, according to the Rules of Procedure, I expect his written reply. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. The Bank of Slovenia Act, paragraph 33, provides that the Minister of Finance may attend meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I ask the distinguished Minister of Finance how many times the Council of the Bank of Slovenia met in 2019. We know that, as a rule, the Council of the Bank of Slovenia meets twice a month. I want to know: How many times in 2019 did the Minister of Finance attend the Council of Banka Slovenije?. I also want to know: Did the Minister attend a meeting of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia to discuss the limitation of housing and consumer credits? In the event that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia has not attended, I am interested in: Why is the Council of the Bank of Slovenia not meeting and what are these reasons? As I said in the introduction, I expect his written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Lidija Dijak Mirnik will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues, distinguished ministers, other ministers and ministers! Dear Minister! The founder of the public secondary school is the state, the state authorities are ministries and consequently the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Each secondary school receives financial resources that must be sufficient for the implementation of certified educational programmes, at the same time seeking progress, professionalism and quality. Financial resources shall be provided for the salaries of employees, replacements, maintenance, material costs, purchases of equipment, licences, education for teachers, management of such and other databases and so on. The problem arises when funding for individual schools is not sufficient for the implementation of certified educational programmes and associated costs. In Maribor we have a case where we face the difficulty of renting premises of Maribor Sports Facilities for compulsory exercise in public secondary schools without a gym or an inappropriate gym. As a result, the principals of seven secondary schools turned to me. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Why does the Ministry not finance the costs of implementing the compulsory sports education programme and providing basic conditions for work, thereby depriving schools which do not have suitable places for sport education in relation to those who have this possibility? Why does the MIGH place this responsibility of each year’s negotiations on administrators, since the rent actually does not have any effect on the rent price? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u58	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a good day. Thank you for this question, and I will try to be as plastic as possible first, what is actually going on here. The point is that the Municipality of Maribor proposed higher rents to secondary schools using gymnasiums in Maribor. If my data is correct, it's more than a 50% increase in rent. Then there was a problem, because this matter should be resolved in advance. And that information is important. It is said that the matter should be resolved in advance and not later. Why? Because we have already introduced a system called MOFAS since 2013. This is a system of financing secondary schools where the price of each programme is calculated per student. MOFAS is actually a system of weights when different programmes have different weights and thus different financial resources. Schools get that money in their hair. So not according to individual items as you define them, but they get high schools where the founder of the Republic of Slovenia is money in a piece. This enables directors, although you have said the transfer of responsibility, but at the same time gives them the tools to distribute things as they see it as the right thing to do, clearly, in accordance with all the laws, regulations and so on, and then they can manage it successfully. The directors are also the ones who know the local environment the most. The rental prices of individual facilities used – in this case of gyms – are also largely dependent on the individual environment. The principals literally know best when and what the cost is. The Ministry of Economic Affairs requires directors to do business. And that's the only thing that's right. However, if – and here is what I told you at the outset – it happens that with the money that was given to a high school, they fail to cover all the costs, then after the cost, I stress once again, after the cost has been incurred, they ask for additional funding. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport regularly grants individual schools. They are in such or other financial situations, whether they have too few students, or whether certain specific costs are higher and so on. But that's what the Ministry does when the cost comes, not in advance. The information you provided is at least to me, and I must say that we have been in at least two communications with the Municipality of Maribor, as well as for next week, if I know correctly, we have an additional meeting. At the last meeting we had, the Municipality of Maribor presented this problem. We got their letter, which is why the price increase, as I said, is more than 50% higher than the cost of renting gyms. Most of the time, the local environment and secondary schools are in some symbiotic relationship, and most of the time we have no questions here. Now I'm not saying that there's no symbiotic relationship in Maribor. Yeah, they're good, and they're working together. But it's information that I got from the principals that they're assessing that this promotion is still too big for some local environment. If anything, then at the next meeting we will have to determine, for the first time, what are the reasons for this, and, for the second time, how to perform the modalities in order to continue to have a good time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Madam Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I can agree with you. Maybe I could add my question to the part where I think about this MOFAS balance sheet. Maybe we should take a look here and see if we have another equalizer. We know that not all schools are the same, that not all have the same conditions when we are talking about the whole of Slovenia. That's the first thing. Maybe just because I have a minute, one review of what they wrote me. Right now, we have the problem that 4,000 students in seven high schools in Maribor don't have a gym. Winter is approaching, and perhaps some solution will have to be found here. That is why I would ask you in this place that perhaps you, as Minister, will once convene a meeting, invite all the participants, say both the middle school administrators and the Maribor City Hall and those responsible to answer them and try to find a solution. The solution could also be that anyone may give in a little bit, anyone may also see if he has any savings elsewhere, and this way we can find the optimal solution for all 4,000 students. I think it's terrible that in the 21st century, we need to talk about students having somewhere warm exercise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The students will have warm gymnastics, let there be no doubt about it. As for the meeting, as we say, we had a meeting on this subject and two dates that somehow didn't go through. The last one was between November's or potatoes' vacations, which is a recent one. But unfortunately, he didn't make it through, but we're talking to the town hall. In this sense, you are right to discuss what a real price is, and to agree on what the modalities of this cooperation are. Even those facilities owned by the Municipality of Maribor are sometimes largely empty in the morning, so we also provide them with an additional source of income by teaching high schools. Let me be clear. As far as MOFAS is concerned, there are always criticisms about this. But just as it is currently working, and the high schools have adapted very well to this mode of funding, it's much better that where we see that there are anomalies, not anomalies that would have caused it itself, but anomalies because of, I don't know, the number of students, that, that, that third, that we're funding there. If necessary, we shall be funded after the cost has been incurred. And all the years, not only in this mandate, but all the years since 2013 we have funded, so we have never left anyone in a financial negative position. This is a better way to dispose of these funds more economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Branko Grims will ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. Dear Minister, Article 4 of the Decree on the National Security Council is crystal clear. The President of the National Security Council shall invite the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly and the representative of the largest opposition party when the National Security Council considers matters relating to national security. The last meeting has undoubtedly addressed such a question, including what has been reported to the public, and this follows without a doubt. However, the biggest opposition party did not receive any notice or invitation to this meeting, which means that the meeting was legally contested in the light of the provision cited above, but is undoubtedly totally illegal. And such a legally disputed and illegal meeting of the National Security Council has commissioned you, as Minister, to quote from the media: "Prepare the tightening of criminal legislation in the field of the merger of individuals whose conduct could affect the sphere of competence of the state authorities." I'm not asking you this because of a variety of hedges and similar, where there's a lot of performances and where, I'm sure, sooner or later, it's going to turn out to be paid by the police at the top or near the top. It is not the case that these guards and circuses always appear with them when it comes to the government’s fingernails or when an illegal government is formed. If we remember when this was the first time. I ask you because of people who are largely left to themselves who are self-organizing because they want to exercise their right to self-defence. This right to self-defence is clearly enshrined in international acts, from the UN Charter onward and is also derived from the Slovenian Constitution, where the right to security is also enshrined. Unfortunately, people do not receive this security, because your government, which I believe has therefore convened an illegal and illegal meeting of the National Security Council, failed to ensure security, has failed completely, but is not only a failure, I say that it is also a covert one, because behind people you have gone to sign a Marrakesh declaration, from which all neighbouring countries have withdrawn from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but on top of all, you still insist on financing NGOs that help illegal migrants in the illegal incursion across the Slovenian border and then in their work in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you: How you will accomplish this meeting or [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Your Honor! We have already discussed today that the Kočevje Police Administration has received several calls from citizens who have noticed people dressed in uniform wearing weapons and convincing the public that they are helping the police control the state border. The actions in front of the local population have aroused excitement. The exclusive control of the state border is under the authority of the police, so the police also exercise it by all means. We have zero tolerance both at the Ministry of the Interior and at the Police until the various initiatives of individuals or groups taking over the tasks of the State. But it is true, as we have heard today from the Prime Minister of the Government, for every case of such a merger, the police are monitoring and assessing this legality of these persons and will act in accordance with the law imposing this on them. The Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace of Article 11 merely by carrying the imitation of weapons and other items similar to weapons, but not by virtue of the provisions of the Weapons Act, is not a violation. An offence is committed only when such an act causes a person to be disturbed or threatened. In fact, we have problems here because the existing legislation is not directed towards such action by so-called self-proclaimed village guards. At the Ministry of the Interior, we are actively preparing amendments to legislation, namely the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, the Law on the Control of the State Border and the Law on Society, which we will send to the Government as soon as possible, then to the National Assembly. I believe that because of, I will say, such village guards who carry out the tasks that are under the authority of the State, we will also accept appropriate legal corrections. I must also say that last week we sent a proposal to the Ministry of Justice from the Ministry of the Interior for amendments to the Penal Code, and I believe that these provisions will also be taken into account. As regards respect for human dignity and its inseparable right to human rights and fundamental freedoms, it is therefore a permanent task and duty of the police to ensure security for both individuals and communities and the Slovenian police. If there is no tool, we are therefore here to prepare these tools, propose and, of course, the National Assembly to accept them. I appeal to all of you, honourable Members, to support this legislation, both the Penal Code and the other laws that I have previously stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Grimes, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u68	Yeah, you do have a problem, but the first problem is double criteria. Every year you also get applications, notices, tweets, some are also public – I know they exist – about the fact that various organisations, with real weapons, are said to be disabled, under the sign of a red star paraded long and cross Slovenian places. As far as I know, the police never act, and they don't even check to see if that weapon is really incapacitated or not. So much for double criteria, if that's a condition. Secondly, which is still a much bigger problem in my opinion, the fact that the Government, as I have already said, is complicit in the current situation. This situation has itself led to an approach to the Marrakesh Declaration, which you have done largely behind people's backs, against what all neighbouring countries have done against the opposition's warnings. On the other hand, you finance NGOs that promote the incursion of illegal migrants into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and then delay them and allow them to behave in different ways. As for the tightening of the legislation that you have announced, we have already proposed several times to tighten the legislation, and you have always rejected it and are therefore objectively and subjectively responsible for the current situation. The current situation is that the flood of illegal migrants is increasing from day to day, and people are therefore self-organizing themselves in one way or another. They have the right to do so by international acts and by the Constitution. It is that people simply want to protect what is most precious – their life, their property, their loved ones, because it does not enable them to a sufficient extent or is obviously not capable of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has caused such conduct by its misbehaviour, with its policy, of course, given that its predecessor, Dr. Mira Cerar, who is now Minister, has already done so to some extent. That's why I'm asking you: How You Will Act in Realizing [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u70	Once again, it is the police who have the exclusive right in this country to carry out the tasks on behalf of the State. You also mentioned earlier that in the summit or in these structures of so-called guards, village guards, police officers. I don't have that information, and I'm gonna check it out with the police. But I doubt that's how it would be. If it is, the police will also sanction it. As far as legislative changes are concerned, we are preparing and also taking into account those groups that carry some weapons that are actually an activity, these are various knights' games or events where they also take place at certain events. But it's already kind of arranged somewhere else. However, we will also look at this and, in fact, I believe that experts at the Ministry of the Interior and the Police are also thinking about these things. I believe that the amendment of the law will be okay and that it will be in line with the times that are in order to prevent such self-initiative interventions by individuals and groups. I believe this is only effective for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Grimes, here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u72	This is certainly a very important issue, the issue of self-defence and the question of who we give priority to: the safety of our own citizens and citizens or some imaginary rights of foreigners. For this reason, I propose that we hold this debate in the National Assembly. The thing we are facing is much broader than is now banal in the vast majority of Slovenian media. People at the border actually feel threatened, so they organize themselves in different ways, including those that can have very severe consequences. A while ago, I was informed that some were trying to buy Caucasian sheep. If anyone knows what a Caucasian shepherd is, who is virtually uncontrollable, and what he is capable of, then it is better to distribute weapons to them immediately, since there will be less severe consequences of such conduct. But why do people do that? Since this government is not only obviously not able to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens, but it even cooperates, it collides with the current situation with completely wrong conduct and with a huge dose of diversion, which we have repeatedly witnessed to it. This government rejects any changes in the tightening of legislation when it comes to the issue of illegal migrants, or the abuse of the right to asylum, which is massive. This would give a clear signal to illegal migrants who are very well informed that this is no longer a promised land for them. This government finances NGOs to help smuggle migrants across borders. And he even brags about it. It says on the government's pages, we work well with the Legal Information Centre and the Peace Institute. Yeah, great. And then this government does not guarantee everything that it should, its citizens and its citizens. This government gave a clear signal to migrants to come here when it acceded to the Marrakesh Agreement. As a result, our neighbors are increasingly dissipating us, increasingly insulating us. On the other hand, all of this burdens Slovenian citizens and citizens twice. First security and second time material. All this nonsense, all this wrong politics, all this madness costs a lot. Europe is indeed facing an organised invasion of radical Islam into Europe. Much of this flow, unfortunately, comes along the Balkan route and with this also through Slovenia. This would make it even more necessary to provide adequate protection, for an adequate number of people, for all those steps that are preventive, including legislative changes that would give a clear signal that things have changed. But all of this can only be achieved clearly with such a government as it is, with a proper debate in the National Assembly, which is why I propose. This debate must also be followed by conclusions [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We will decide on your proposal on Thursday, 21 November, as part of the vote. The next one is Mr. Joseph Horvat. He will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Information from the media has encouraged me to ask today a question from two ministers, Minister Bertoncl, who is responsible for the finances that are officially absent and Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, I am pleased that he is here because you are my interlocutors. We were recently following the story of the collapse of Adria Airways. At that time, the government decided not to invest any more money in Adrio Airways, as we citizens in Adrio, when it was still state-owned, threw away more than 85 million euros and this company collapsed. When we sold it, we invested about 3.1 million more in it to then sell it for 0.1 million, that's 100 thousand. On 7 November, Radio Slovenia reported on the alleged plans of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims for the establishment of a new state airline. We in Novi Slovenija estimate that the country is not designed to transport passengers and cargo by plane. Others can do this better and more economically. We are also wondering what the role is now here of the Company for Bank Claims Management, and this is my question, Mr Minister. The company for bank claims management was created under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of system banks in Slovenia. I'm asking you: Where is the legal basis now that DUTB could possibly, perhaps not, set up a new airline, which already knows at the start that we will need a lot of money? My next question is: Do we have it in our budget? Moreover, the issue of profitability here is very important. According to my information, these lines that are the most profitable, practically already, allow the term to be occupied. Since the deadline for non-binding offers to purchase a whole for Adrio Airways has already expired on Martinovo, I would like to ask: Did the Banks Claims Management Company also make a non-binding offer? In short, I would like to know what is going on in the government with regard to the possible establishment of a new or the co-establishment of a new state airline. I'll be very grateful for your information and answers, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, it's yours for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u76	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Both of you, Mr Member, know that the media is not all about believing, so allow me to give in spite of everything on our side what we are doing in this area. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is aware of the situation since the bankruptcy procedure was initiated, since Adria Airways was an important national, regional charter carrier which ensured the connectivity of the Slovenian economy in the context of international economic flows. This is particularly true for its tourism sector, which has seen extremely encouraging growth results in the overnight stays of foreign tourists in recent years and is predictable for the export of travel. As part of the possible solutions to the situation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the Ministry of Finance, examined all legal and business and organisational alternatives in which the gaps created after the bankruptcy proceedings started over Adria Airways could be filled. They ranged from abandoning developments to market forces, what is happening today, and the possible takeover of all Adrie Airways airlines by European aviation competition, to the independent role of the State in the establishment of a new air carrier. But we're talking about studying. The objectives of the study of solutions are and will also be focused on the future connectivity of Slovenia with the rest of the world in terms of ensuring a competitive business-investment and tourist attractive destination. To this end, we have been particularly involved at the Ministry over the past three weeks in specific discussions with some regional air carriers on the cooperation of the private initiative and the country in the establishment of a new Slovenian national or, if you wish, a new air carrier. Regrettably, it would now be contrary to the standards of business ethics and good corporate governance if the information on these talks were disclosed without the consent of all stakeholders involved in these discussions. At the Ministry, however, we firmly believe that the connectivity of our country with the world will never be at the highest possible level if we leave the situation completely to the spontaneous functioning of the market and give up the idea of establishing a new air carrier. This can also be confirmed in particular when verifying the impact on the development of the tourism sector, which generates 13% of the gross social product, where certain negative effects of the departure of individual airlines are already shown, particularly in the area of congress tourism. We therefore insist on the view that Slovenia's connectivity with international trade and transport flows around the world is in the Slovenian national interest. In this context, even when establishing a new airline by involving the State, there is no debate on the entry or withdrawal of the country from politics and the economy, it is simply an essential role and the issue of ensuring an adequate transport and transport infrastructure in support of the development of the Slovenian economy. At the same time, I welcome the recent initiative that a new airline could be created on the basis of a stand-alone enterprise initiative based on domestic business circles. But all those who are concerned that the country will go up on its nose in some unknown story can be comforted by the fact that we will enter such a story as the partner only if such a story is based on sustainable numbers in the economic field. Everything else and the fear of going into the unknown is superfluous. Unless such a goal can be otherwise achieved, our connectivity with the world will be regulated by the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member of the Commission, you wish to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for the first time since we are together, because it concerns the opinion that we need to talk, it is said, Member-Minister, Minister- Member. I don't need any media here between us, so I asked him this question. In Novi Slovenija we had a brief discussion on this subject, and in addition to everything you have said, we agree, but we are also setting up an economy here. If there is no economy, then I, as a taxpayer, probably you too, do not want to pay even half a euro a year to have another non-profitable state airline again. You didn't answer me: Did DUTB make a non-binding offer? Probably not, because the deadline, as it were said, ran out on Martin's. We've seen several business entities again through the media that they've done this, or business, all of Adrie Airways. That's what I'm interested in. I agree with the fact that air traffic has not worked well for us at this time of the collapse of Adrie Airways, that the tourist sector of the economy is recording the loss of revenue. Do you, as an expert in this field, feel that this is the current nature, or do you think this will be permanent? I also hear from some tourism providers that they do not actually worry about what happened in Slovenia, i.e. the collapse of Adrie Airways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you. I'll give you a quick answer. I'm not a bankruptcy manager, so I don't know who made these offers. I personally have to say that I believe that we will never be so well connected again if we do not have any company that will take special care of Slovenia's connectivity. We are not concerned about the functioning of the public transport of Slovenian railways as a country, so that we can also take part in bus transport. We estimate that it is also important for the Slovenian economy that the country as such is connected by air to the world. We believe that the market will solve many of these problems, but it will not solve all of them. But once again, whatever happens, the state will not participate in economically unsustainable solutions. The country itself will never go into this story if we engage in discussions with partners, businesses, private people, in a story that will be sustainable, we will participate in such a story. This is also my personal endeavour as Minister of Economic Development and Technology. But there are a lot of information manipulations in this area, so we need to be careful about assessing what is going on, because there is a lot of interest as well. Once again, our interest is that Slovenia is also well connected by air because of the Slovenian economy, because of Slovenian people and because of Slovenian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The Magnificent Messenger. Marko Koprivc will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, distinguished Minister! In the coalition contract of the current government, we have listed as one of the key priorities the issue of housing accessibility and housing policy arrangements as a whole. There is a new housing law currently under public scrutiny, which I think is an important step towards regulating this issue. In fact, this housing law regulates a number of important issues and areas. At the last meeting, we discussed this, namely the new model for calculating the cost of rent and the regulation of the apartment allowance for those who could not pay these rents. In addition to housing leases, it is also important to have relations between senior owners and their relationship with managers. However, it is also important that the third area, which is the subject of my current issue, is the housing supply issue, which requires even more resources than an estimated 30 million, which will need to be provided annually for the housing allowance. Therefore, I would like to urge you, Madam Minister, as a matter of priority, to focus solutions in this area on the establishment of a permanent housing fund that would provide a safe and affordable lease for residents and residents in all lifetimes. In fact, ownership of an apartment has a significant impact on the individual’s potential, but this is certainly not a suitable solution for a large number of people. The promotion and provision of safe affordable rents should constitute the backbone of the country's housing policy, and it is also worth encouraging or assisting residents and residents to become owners of housing. The proposal for a housing law currently under public scrutiny is one of the major shifts I have already said, which must take place in the area of housing policy. Therefore, with regard to the model of renting apartments, I ask you the following questions: With what measures do you intend to pursue the establishment of a permanent public housing fund? How will you ensure that rental apartments are accessible to people during all life periods and in all situations? In your opinion, what is the appropriate amount of resources to establish such a fund over the next ten years? What funding sources do you anticipate for the establishment of such a fund? In addition to the total amount of funds, please indicate how much more can be provided for this purpose from individual titles, for example from the increase in the level of indebtedness of housing funds. In view of the fact that the resources needed to launch such a programme are certainly considerable, I am also interested in: Have you also considered any additional donations that would be deliberately provided for housing policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking. The housing law, which is currently under public scrutiny, will be under public scrutiny until 28 November, until then it is time for all proposals, is one of the most important laws that I will bring to you in this mandate in the National Assembly, and we have several more laws that we are preparing now, but housing policy, the housing issue is one of those that we all feel, which is why it is still important and, therefore, we are giving it all the attention and serious attention at this point. How are we going to get an increase in the public rental fund? The first such measure to follow is that the Public Housing Fund will no longer build housing for sale. All the apartments that the Public Housing Fund will build will be dedicated to broadcasting that as a country we also have a mechanism, an opportunity to reach out or regulate this leased housing market in general. In the Coalition Treaty, we have set ourselves 10,000 new dwellings in two mandates. This now means about 10,000 of these over the next seven years. These apartments would like to be obtained both through the construction of new apartments and by the new measure envisaged in this housing law, which is a public rental service. In fact, this public service has a very high potential, but what has been pointed out to the Prime Minister today is that there is something to write in the laws, and something else is how it comes to life. This public rental service will, of course, be able to live up to all these empty apartments that exist on the market today and do not go to market. To reach this goal, of course, it will take some time, especially for those who have these empty apartments today to realize that it is worth it and that it is quite easy to do so. In fact, we are aiming at those apartments that are empty today because owners are perhaps too old for different reasons because they do not know because they think bureaucratic barriers are too great, they do not decide to put their apartments on the market. All these burdens, all these risks will be taken by our Public Housing Fund through this public rental service. So all the fears about how with a tenant who won't go out, all the fears, what happens, if anything gets hurt, all the fears, how much money is lost at the time the apartment is empty, all of this will be taken over by our public rental service. However, I think that what is also important for people in large numbers to decide to cooperate with the public hire service is that we also have to achieve that for those who give their apartment to the public hire service, that is what we know about taxation. And precisely because of this and because of all the other financial measures that follow from this law, right now our team and the team from the Ministry of Finance are sitting together to come from behind, that is, spring, when the law is supposed to be on your side, that we will also say then, such a tax relief, such financial resources will be planned for a permanent source, whether there will be a new tax or not. I do not hope to predict this right now, or I do not know how to predict it, but until then, I would like to align with the Ministry of Finance until spring and prepare measures where additional financial resources will come from. The current financial resources, how they will increase, which is foreseen by this law, are simply to replace the non-profit rent for the cost. Although I have to admit here that we called it a little awkward because even the cost of renting is a non-profit rent. In fact, the non-profit rent will continue to be indexed as the current non-profit has ceased to be indexed since 2003 and, of course, is too low for the owners to have real public housing funds, for example, in 20 years they can recover their deposits, now it takes 40 years. So only this non-profit rent, which is not indexed, is traded for a non-profit rent that is indexed. It will still be non-profit, even though it will be called cost. We are increasing the possibility of borrowing the funds to 50%, which is another one of these measures. Then the resources are different, from transferring parcels from DUTB to the Public Housing Fund, to providing, for example, from the Climate Fund, funds for public housing funds, both municipal and our national, to be built in a sustainable manner. So there will be more funding sources. The one who will, I hope or wish, my wish is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Very briefly. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that I am glad that this government has finally begun to take this issue seriously. Indeed, in Slovenia we have practically not had a specific housing policy since 1991. Although we had a very high-quality housing fund until 1990, which was then sold out and privatised through privatisation and after some concrete measures, unfortunately there were no more. So I believe that the adoption of this law is in some way, I hope that the adoption in short, the beginning of the right path to solving this issue. I also believe that the measures specifically laid down in the law are genuine. But I'm still a little worried about what I said, a financial resource. It is true that the budget is not the only source, but it is a very important source. And in the budgets that we are adopting for the next two years, there are no substantial increases or sufficient amounts of money to bring these things down. It is true, however, that as we also enable local, municipal housing funds to be more indebted, a large step has been taken and a number of other measures have been taken. Mr Minister, I think we are on the right track, but I hope that you will be able to answer questions that you have not answered to me today in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to respond further? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u88	As I said, when you have a marriage on the table, I expect that I will also have another source of coordination with the Minister of Finance. But, of course, they had a debt, as we said. Moreover, the fact that we will now index non-profit rent is said to be cost-effective would allow these funds to be reimbursed in advance, that is to say in their 20s and not in their 40s, which means that the need for debt will also be reduced. Then here's our climate fund. That new source will still need to be addressed. Our assessment somewhere, according to the data we have obtained from the Housing Fund, that we will need a billion and a half euros to build and public employment for our goals of putting 10,000 new rental apartments on the market, which will have to come from different directions. As I said before, we are now sitting with the Minister of Finance to support these measures financially, so that when you adopt the law, you will feel very good. In what way do we plan to finance this in the current budget for 2020 and 2021, of course this is not yet so visible, because the law is not yet in force, but we have already introduced the item for this apartment allowance, and the rest, of course, follows when the law is passed. For investments for which the Housing Fund already has building permits, funds are already being provided, so around EUR 200 million is a fund for these projects that are running or will start to take place in the short term. These funds are provided at the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jožef Lenart will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, all present colleagues and colleagues, Mr Pikalo, Minister of Education! Quality planning for higher education is of paramount importance for the creation of knowledge, development and progress of the economy and society. Young researchers and later researchers in developed countries are a driving force in the field of research and innovation development and the progress of the country. But I have a feeling that both in the previous government and in this one, including your department, no one is aware of this, or that it is not going as well as it should be. Let's see if you're imagining a company that's producing and selling nothing and its unsold products more than it's stockpiling in the warehouse, it's probably in danger of collapse in the coming years. Now imagine our country and its colleges, which have accumulated their graduates for many years at the Employment Institute, which is also responsible for your ministry, which is poorly planning educational needs. So I don't think you're following us any other way. So we have between professions that are lacking, so deficits, and those that are too many. We are dramatically short of doctors, physiotherapists, nurses, programmers, ICT engineers in Slovenia, and we have too many teachers, professors, lawyers, economists and, in general, social graduates. I want to know: How do you determine the degree of employability for graduates? Is the rate of employment taken into account when determining the number of admissions to colleges? In your reply to my recent written question, you have even acknowledged that, until your appointment in 2013, you did not have traceable indicators of the degree of employability of graduates. So in the meantime in Slovenia we did not have a review of the demand of employers for staff profiles, workers. This is real amateurism and one small lottery is how you should plan, increase or limit the number of entries to individual colleges. Or just in front of the dean and the professor's choirs, maybe? How is the first comprehensive analysis of the employability of university graduates in the period 2005 to 2018 prepared by you at the Ministry? So what are you going to do about solving the human resources deficits and ensuring balanced provision of graduates in the economy and the public sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The question is to some extent more complex, although if you want of course, I can only answer you to your purely specific part of the project. However, to explain to the public the entries in university higher education programmes and independent higher education institutions are of course taking place on the basis of analysis, but it is true that so far we have a comprehensive analysis that would combine different databases and, of course, also different sources from the Employment Institute, our own bases, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, then the records of the unemployed Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, the Journalists of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we did not have. And this project, which you discussed and is being implemented between 2018 and 2020, will now draw this data together. It is important in this matter that for the first time we will really have all of the system's information on the current situation. And the emphasis is on the current state of affairs. Why? Because we always have to look forward to education. The needs of employees, whether they are companies or the public sector, are always immediate. They always need shots now. However, it takes a minimum of 5 years for someone to be educated in higher education alone. Sometimes then it can happen, and 2008 even happened, and not only in 2008, at the high school level, this happened this year at Lek factory in Prevalje, when the Ministry of Education installed an additional pharmaceutical programme, but before the first students actually finished the pharmaceutical program, Lek factory in Prevalje is no longer there is, of course, no need for high school pharmacists anymore. So we always have scissors and these scissors are on the one hand the longevity of education, which, as it is said, lasts for at least five years and also the practice so far before you start, and, of course, the immediate need for higher education. But we also know from the current analyses that some of the particular profiles you mentioned are missing, of course. Because of this, I can also tell you, we have had a few conversations over the past few months, say with both medical schools, there have also been directors of both clinical centres, because if you want to train doctors, then it is not only medical college enough, but you also need a teaching hospital, and both our clinical centres are. We are making efforts, we started before the summer, but certainly intensified in September, because, of course, these entries must be communicated to the Ministry and then later to the Government for this agreement by the end of December. So, as far as doctors are concerned, we're taking action. Something like this happens, like, with logopedos. Logopedia is such a knowledge where we chronically lack graduates. We have already spoken with the Faculty of Education of the University of Ljubljana, which implements this programme, and we encourage them to do so and tell them to raise the places of entry. Of course, because of the constitutional autonomy of universities, the Ministry is not in a direct position to order what and how many entries a programme should have. The other thing is, of course, that it must be in the interest of the programmes, and this time the programmes and higher education institutions, that their graduates are, of course, employable, because they are failing to register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much again. A complex problem. Of course, I agree with you on that. The basis for my oral question today was somehow that written question that you answered on about three sides. I have to say, some things got in the way. So we are aware that the neighbours have excellent educational systems, but it is not so far away, for example, Austria, that we could not copy some things even a little more of them if I put it that way. In your reply, you also told me that universities are trying to bridge the gaps described in the data needed in future long-term needs, as you have now said that not everything can be resolved at this time. But if we touch that from this planning of education in this country then these young people who are actually vegetating at the employment institution, because they are not either employed or this moment is another cause, for this reason, there is also a huge brain drain. From this title, the country loses 7 000 people a year if it leaves with tertiary education, the country loses the 700 million we have spent on education. So the problem is quite preoccupational. For greater employability and easier entry into the labour market, we need a practical and targeted education system that is more flexible than we now have. And, of course, from this title, we want the Minister's responses to be quicker because there are a lot of comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Do you want to add something to the response? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. In addition to the project you mentioned, there is another one that is being implemented within the framework of the SRIP and it is the participation of the Economic Chamber, higher education institutions and so on. Why am I referring to this project with the Chamber of Commerce? Because he's one of the few people who looks forward. He talks to higher education institutions about what graduates will need in the next 20 to 30 years, what knowledge, what skills. Because, you know, those who are going to be educated today will be on the labour market for another 40 years. And that is why it is important that we today identify what knowledge is, the skills and so on that will be needed by the graduates entering the higher education system later. And this is one of the few that actually deals in this way long-termly with the matter. As for that first concern that you mentioned, indeed, with the combination of these different sources of data will give us, I think, more systematic and, above all, more comprehensive data for the preparation of employment analyses. Then, in the next step, this will serve as a career guide, for that is what you are talking about. So if we find through this analysis that we just need these, the more and so on, then even in career counseling in high school, we can already suggest to our school counselors the direction in which, if that is the student's wish, it is always necessary to take into account the student's wish, if that is the student's wish in which we can direct them. And in this way, we'll be able to close these scissors that are open, and we'll have fewer openings. But look, when I'm talking to other fellow ministers, there are systems where there's less dilation, and systems where there's more dilation, but in every system there's a gap, because you can't and you don't know for the next 30, 40 years what you're actually going to need in the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much for these answers, Mr. Secretary-General. So we have a lot of comments about planning. We also have a lot of comments on what is going on in education today, by college leaders, higher education, private higher education institutions, employers. I think it's a topic worth discussing. For this reason, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a broad debate on this subject at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 21. November, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u100	Nice hello to you all! At the end of October, the Ministry of the Environment and Space made public a decree on the programme for the use of the Fund for Climate Change in 2020. As announced, the total value of the fund for next year will be as much as € 184 million. In doing so, it is interesting that such a large amount is planned, even though there are as many as €114 million left unspent on this item last year. While some of the tasks or objectives to be achieved by this money, such as financing citizens' investments through the Eco Fund, have been recorded in the publication of the decree. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that too, in this case, spending too much public resources for very uncertain purposes is planned. It is clear from the description of the purposes and measures that this will give some a chance to recharge their pockets. I'm asking: Why are the funds planned to combat climate change in 2020 so high if they were not used last year? What exactly will Slovenia acquire for this money? How will you measure the effects of the fight against climate change achieved by this money?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you. Thank you for asking. In recent times, it has been possible to understand that, with regard to climate funds and the climate fund spending programme itself, there is a degree of ambiguity. Perhaps these ambiguities in our Slovenian space are also deliberately introduced in the sense that we are earmarking funds for some quasi climate change that really does not exist when we could give these funds for some social measures. To begin with, I would like to say that the funds flowing into the climate fund are earmarked. These are not the funds we collect with taxes, but they are the funds that Slovenia receives through the auction of emission vouchers. So it is not a tax matter, it is a means of purpose that we must spend on mitigation and adaptation to climate change. It is true that funds are quite high in this programme, but one thing has to be said here. The value of investment coupons increased rapidly two years ago. Two more years ago, the value of the coupon was €5, today it is €25. This jump was not followed by institutions such as our ministry, for example, that these funds could actually be sent to Slovenia by these measures. Let me say that when I came to this ministry, one person was in charge of the climate fund, which is too small for such a difficult area and for such high resources. We have now somehow strengthened this sector, so I expect that we will be more successful in terms of the realisation and use of these funds in the future. Maybe for a sense of what we're using these funds for. This appropriation is intended to cover cooperation with the economy. We from the Climate Fund allocate resources to businesses to adapt their production to more sustainable ways. We are also committed to reducing emissions in transport, promoting the use of renewable energy sources, and adapting to climate change. We also finance this when we have floods. Those who do not believe in climate change in Slovenia, let me tell you that in the first years of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which stipulates that if damage after natural disasters exceeds 0.3 per cent of the budget's expected revenue, the State will draw up a recovery programme, this programme has been initiated somewhere between once and twice a year or never. Today, in recent years, we have launched it four to five times. And the rehabilitation, even in your places, of everyone you come from, we also hide it from the climate fund. So it's not about some imaginary climate change, these climate changes exist and are being remedied from these resources. And then there's research, there's development, there's innovation. However, all eligible uses of the climate change fund must, of course, be determined in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act on the basis of certain criteria. These criteria are 6. The first such criterion is the contribution to climate change objectives, the second criterion is the fulfilment of international obligations, the third is the added value, the fourth achieving synergies, the fifth measure of effectiveness and the sixth preparedness of implementation measures. It is true that there can be a reasonable question of why such an increase in resources should we not have been able to use them in the past year. But let me tell you why it takes you more than a year to prepare everything. I will give you an example of the preparation of public contracts, calls and invitations that lasted several months. This is, for example, a case of public calls for the purchase of vehicles for the transport of passengers. And I'm just going to tell you how it's all going down, so we can imagine why we didn't get it all pumped last year. Following the adoption of the Government Decision, i.e. the use of funds programmes, a contract with the Eco Fund for the implementation of the measures shall be concluded. It is necessary to prepare technical conditions, the texts call for inter-resortmental harmonisation. The call must then be confirmed by the Eco-Fund Supervisory Board and eventually it will be necessary for another week before the publication of the Official Journal. When the call is opened, municipalities begin to prepare documentation for the call application, which takes several months again. When they apply for the invitation to tender, the Eco Fund shall have a period of one month until the decision. When the decision is taken, the municipalities shall take up the public procurement of vehicles. The deadline for closing the investment is 18 months and is therefore to be extended to the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u104	Dear Minister, I believe you have a good purpose, but let me tell you that people are not only disappointed, but angry and desperate when they watch what's going on in this country. That's why I'm warning everywhere where I can see that there's room for manipulation and irrational spending of money. On Thursday, we had a consultation on the climate agreement here, which, by the way, I also congratulate the President of the National Assembly on organising this. I admit that I wasn't present all the time because I had other committees, but what I heard just confirmed my opinion. In this country, we cannot agree for 15 years on how we will proceed on climate change and on the construction of power plants. Also on Thursday, experts said that they were very concerned and that a common solution needed to be found, and everyone again claimed their own. One's against wind power plants. Second, I'm just gonna call her a fish, it's against the hydro power plants. Third against nuclear, even solar, is too expensive because they don't store electricity. So once again, I do not believe that this money will be spent rationally, but it will serve for new and new studies, and it will not bring a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you. As regards the use of climate funds, we are very precise, and procedures are taking so long, because a type of confirmation is needed because we want to ensure that the funds spent from the climate fund achieve their effects. We are now at a time when we accept some very important strategic documents in Slovenia. Thus are the national energy and climate plan, our long-term climate strategy and also the energy concept. Why are these documents so important to us? Because we will have to answer a number of key questions when we receive these documents in Slovenia. And here I agree with you, quickly it turns out that when we start talking about where we're going to get electricity, that there's a lot of conflicting opinions, and that we're not somewhere at this stage to be able to talk and hear arguments. But if, as a country, we want to be as independent and independent as possible, we will need to make some compromises. We know where we're going. The great untapped potential is solar energy. But solar energy, of course, has its shortcomings, because when we talk about electricity generation, we are talking not only about kilowatt hours, but also about the stability of the electricity network, which means that in addition to solar energy, we will also have to have reliable sources of energy, which are not so dependent on time, but on daytime or daytime. This means for Slovenia, given that we are relatively limited in terms of wind, then, of course, hydropower and nuclear energy remain here. We're going to have to answer these questions as a country, whether we're going to put up new nuclear energy, if not, where we're going to get this energy, we're going to set up new hydro power plants, if not, why not, and if not, where we're going to get this energy from. We will now have to answer these questions. I think that we will all have to find together that, on some issues, we will now have to take a step back. However, I think it is very important for the country that we are self-sustaining, that we are self-sustaining as regards waste management and, of course, that we are self-sustaining when we are talking about food processing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Janja Slug will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. At the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, we held a general debate on the so-called guarantee law, where for Dars the guarantee for the construction of the third development axis, namely the north and southern parts, is accepted at 360 million. However, we did not say anything at this time about this intermediate work, it is said, about the central part of the third development axis going from Celje to the New City. We had about a year and a half ago a meeting on this subject, i.e. the mayors and Members of that area, where we have found it really encouraging to see that there is agreement on this placement and, above all, there is agreement on how this development axis is needed in the central part. I went back to look at the documentation, and I found that already in 2006 the preparation programme for the state site plan stated the following: “On the existing road network, due to the high value of the average annual daily traffic, there are several sections of the main road G1-5, which do not provide normal traffic and safety conditions for modern road traffic with their current permeability. The picture is even worse because most sections of this road pass through settlements, especially the areas of Celje, Laško and Krske are critical.” So that's what happened in 2006. Of course, it is important to say in light of these circumstances that traffic is increasing daily and annually. In particular, freight traffic is increasing, which is particularly problematic. This relationship is also exposed in all reports to the becoming the Transport Police of Celje, as it emerges from the number of traffic accidents with a tragic, i.e. fatal outcome. In the mandate of the previous government, there was some consensus for this area that, of course, when implemented, we should give priority to this very relationship from Celje to Laska and beyond to the Wall Bridge for these reasons, which I have already listed. Minister, I ask you: What are your plans now? What's the timer? How does he approach activities, and will we skip all these obstacles on the way? However, I would not like the implementation of the core work to be entirely dependent upon the closure of the northern part of the third development axis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much for saying this. Thank you very much for the question. The third development axis is certainly the priority of the ministry since I've been running it, and I believe these governments, these coalitions, too. But the fact is, this project didn't start with my mandate, but far back. The second fact is that in the National Assembly you also have a guarantee law for the third development axis, only for parts that have an investment programme approved. This does not mean that the other parts of the third axis are not important or neglected, but these two parts, one part in the north and one part in the south, are as long as possible, so we can now put them into this law. As to this, I will say, the central part of the third development axis, which runs from Celje to New Town, was in 2008, when the options for the whole project were developed from Austria to Croatia, evaluated and compared to ten variants, all versions started on the A1 motorway near Celje and ended with the link to the A2 motorway near the New Town. They were found in three of course different corridors, western, central and eastern. The variant in the central corridor was assessed as the most appropriate, with the route from the A1 motorway across Celje, Laško and Walla Bridge, further across the Market, Mokronoga and Šmarješke Spalice to the New City. As is a small custom, the main problem of this solution was, of course, in its economic eligibility and also in its social acceptability in particular areas. A redefinition of the planning points was proposed. In 2016, a study of variants was completed and a comparison of the current variant was made with two other minimum variants relating to the rehabilitation of the existing network. The additional study was also made public in 2016. In August 2017, public comments were made on the comments and proposals made at the time of the public decommissioning on the basis of which it is concluded that the proposed option, so-called OPNVR, is the most appropriate with the completed study. The proposed solution under this option is the new construction of a two-lane road, which in the future allows for the expansion into four-lane lanes, approximately 57 kilometers long. Its indicative investment value, according to now known data, is somewhat more than a billion euros. We expect that the decision on the most appropriate option in the Government could be taken in 2020, and, of course, on the basis of this decision, the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, which will be more detailed, will not be possible, will have to be a more detailed phase and phase of this project. At this stage, however, it will also be necessary to determine how the project will be financed if this is different from what is proposed for the third development axis at this time. In short, we haven't forgotten about this part. It is true, however, that he is not as prepared as the works of the third development axis, which are now included in the guarantee law. Until the whole axis is made, we can't talk about the whole third axis of development.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u112	I could point out just a few more data to stress the importance of activities in this direction, so that this solution and construction can also be achieved as soon as possible in this part, not just from the point of view of the overall placement of the third development axis. In fact, this is a very critical section that I went specifically to check, and I also follow it all the time, with a daily traffic of 14 000 492 vehicles. This is in Košnica, it is the narrowest, weakest and most dangerous part of this relationship, if we are talking only about eight kilometers from the Celje railway station and to the village of Debra near Laškem. Once again, it's only eight kilometers. And on those eight kilometers a day, he drives 14 thousand 500 vehicles, as I said, that's a thousand 208 an hour. And of these 14 thousand 500 we're talking about a thousand 836 buses and trucks, you can imagine what this means for the local population and what this means especially in the work where there's still no sidewalk and cycling track, what it means for these kids who go to school this morning, and what it means for bikers. That's 153 trucks an hour, now we're talking. However, I would like to point out one more thing, on these eight kilometers there are two fatalities within the police station of Celje on these eight kilometers each year. And that's why I urge you to speed up your real activities as quickly as you can. And one more point, every traffic accident, this road is closed for three to four hours, the traffic is neither for firefighters, nor for paramedics, nor for the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u114	Despite the absence of an additional question, I will say that we are giving a lot of attention to critical departments at the Ministry. It's not the only critical section. In fact, why was this middle part of the third development axis somehow neglected, and I find it difficult to comment. I think that things like these are now set at the third development axis are actually going as well as they are going. Where construction can begin, it begins. We will close the financial structure after these individual stages. So far, I see no reason why the basis for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan would not be adopted by the Government in the following year, as I said. Of course, this does not mean that this section will be saved tomorrow or the following day. It takes some time to prepare the state premises of the plans. But things are moving, moving in the right direction, and I believe we're going to make a dot together at the third development axis.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Franz Rosec will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. It's a nice greeting to all of us. The minister and I go around in a vicious circle on a two - mile [two km] radio when we have some difficult answers or answers. Today's issue, however, touches the landfill for hazardous and toxic wastes that are closed. This landfill had all its operating permits in the past and was closed at some stage. This landfill lies at the back of two lakes, Velenjska and Šostanj lakes. The question of this landfill, whether we have these resources, how it is maintained, is very important. There are risks that this content runs into the lake, so we should pay more attention to this. But the biggest problem is that we don't even have documents about what's in this dump. We both know that Gorenje and Šostjanj's leather factory were on it, including probably the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant and perhaps some other factor. Also known is the fact that 2002, when the Shoštanj Leather Factory collapsed, all these facilities, swimming pools, were brought to this landfill. Control over this landfill, some leak, but it's more, I'd say, questionable. Minister, I want to know: What is your opinion or your ministry as to the state of this landfill? Is the current state of the landfill such that no harmful effects on the environment are possible? The question is raised because there is no documentation: Has this landfill also been closed in accordance with all the standards and regulations then in force? Then there's something else I want to know: Do you think that the site of the landfill, which is in the very area where coal is being mined, is appropriate in the sense that in the future it cannot lead to an ecological disaster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you. The problem of this abandoned landfill was presented to the ILO in 2017 by the Municipality of Šoštanj, the Municipality of Velenje and the Premogovnika Velenje. The landfill ceased operation in 1989. The landfill of our ministry does not run a list of closed existing landfills. In this regard, several meetings were held at the Ministry of the Environment and the premises at which individual activities of municipalities and Coal Velenje were agreed with regard to the implementation of measures in the coal-mining area. At a meeting that took place on the 12th. 6. 2018, where environmental and mining inspectors were present in addition to municipal and ministry representatives, we discussed the issue of the abandoned landfill in detail. The Ministry of Environment and Space has no actual competence in the area of production. The ILO shall have jurisdiction only where the provisions of the concession contract on work defining the area of environmental protection are violated. These infringements must be detected by the competent environmental inspection. The concession was granted until 2022. On the basis of the ILO recommendation, Coal Velenje commissioned in 2017 a project task for research and preparation of environmental impacts solutions. On the basis of this task, it was found that the undertaking is committed to all activities relating to the monitoring of the situation of the abandoned site of Pregogovnik Velenje, because the abandoned landfill lies in the mining area. The exploitation of coal is foreseen until 2054. The coal-use concession was granted until 2022. Analysis of morphological and geological data shows that the landfill is located in such a geomorphological and geological environment that the containment and inhibitory capacity of the geological basis for the movement of potential pollutants is high. At the time of the construction of the landfill, that is, 1980, such soil was generally recognized as suitable and self-protective for the construction of landfills. Disposal volumes at the landfill from official records amount to 10,000 cubic metres. Issues related to the operation of Velenje Coal and related facilities and installations are subject to the Mining Act and concessionary acts governing mining rights and the concessionaire's associated obligations. The environmental problem of the abandoned landfill is manageable in the context of the regular maintenance of Velenje Coal. Coal Velenje will also carry out monitoring under the Mining Act and the provisions of the concession contract for the mine at this landfill. The control powers are to a large extent a mining inspection, and the environmental inspection is to a large extent only in the area of environmental protection. Waste was dumped on this landfill primarily from the then industry and waste from the economy. All the waste was paid the appropriate fees collected at the expense of the then municipal company, which was owned by the municipality. The Sanitation Procedures are the responsibility of the successor of the then Joint Municipality of Velenje and Premogovnik Velenje, where the already functioning area lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a proposal to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. You also said one year ago that the landfill was closed in 1989, if I recall correctly. However, we tore the leather factory of Šostjanj in 2002, saying that the landfill had already been closed, and leftovers from the processing of all these shoe leathers, where heavy metals and elements have also been brought to this landfill. So, 13 years after closing up. That's what I'm interested in, and I found out today that the coal mine will carry the costs and tasks, but where does the coal mine have these assets? At the price of coal? Will he receive any funds from the Climate Fund? Because we know that a lot of funds come from our valley into this climate fund at the expense of CO2 coupons. Now it would be good if something of this came back. If we are talking about some developmental and climate change, let us look at the environment a little bit longer. Even if we look at these lakes, like for the first time there are fish in them, there is food, and for the second, they are intended for tourism. And now to have some tourism, to have a story, but back there you have a thing that's not right – it's a little bit controversial. This comes quickly to the media, and then it's hard for you to get a tourist, and you lose him very quickly. That's why I'm specifically interested in: What's your opinion about driving to the landfill after closing? Where's the coal mine gonna get the money to rehabilitate the landfill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you. As I previously replied to my colleague, the funds from the Climate Fund are dedicated and are intended to mitigate and adapt to climate change. However, we can both agree that we are people, that industry is some sort of waste vehicle, and these are not the consequences of climate change. As a result, resources cannot be allocated from the Climate Fund to this landfill. In addition, I would like to point out once again that all the waste was paid the appropriate fees collected at the expense of the then municipal company, which was owned by the municipality. That's what they say. They've already been paid for, and they're somewhere. Our ministry controls only environmental impacts through environmental inspection, monitoring and action is the responsibility of Coal Velenje. It shall also be responsible for taking and financing appropriate measures. However, we cannot finance these measures from the Climate Fund because those funds are earmarked, and this landfill is not a result of climate change, but a consequence of human action.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u124	Yeah. I would say that the weight of this issue is a little wider, because it is not just Velenje, we have more such landfills in Slovenia. Little wonder, however, that the amendment was put into this very topic to ensure that the matter is settled, but there was no contact from the Ministry or whether you need it or not. Looks like you're full of money. That's what I'm interested in. And I'm interested in doing it again because I think there might be some kind of debate. If the landfill was closed and someone brought something in after 13 years, that's not right. And this has been happening in Slovenia, not only in Velenje, but also where else it is happening, it is happening, and it may still be happening. That is why I think it would be good for us to have a debate in Parliament on this very subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Škofja Loka on Trata the railway and infrastructure close the crossing of the railway line. This transition is a lifeline for all inhabitants of Trata village and the entire local community opposes the closure of this railway proposal. Last week, a meeting of the nationals, which was attended by others, Mrs Bratušek, also representatives of your ministry, was also convened on Thursday. I myself have come to this assembly of locals to listen to what this is all about, and this assembly has convinced me with its arguments against closing this transition. In fact, the official interpretation states that this transition must be closed on a security basis. As far as we can tell at the convention, it actually does. According to the parameters prepared by the representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, this transition somehow does not meet the standards, but here is a dump. Since I have been living in Škofja Loka and I remember, this passage exists there and behind it is the village of Trata, which depends on it. It's true that a few kilometers further, a subway was made under the rail line. This is supposed to be the catch, why it is now necessary to close this railway crossing in every way. But that subway was built for the needs of industry, for trucks that drive to the industrial zone, and not for residents who would face thousands and one problem in their lives, from banal to rather serious. On this very subject, perhaps, if we remain within the security framework, it is most evident here that it is indeed an urgent, very bureaucratic and partial measure. The firefighters who participated in the assembly were able to tell them that, if this passage closes, the intervention path will be extended by four to five minutes by means of this underrail. The road we should take, which runs through you or along the village, is really too narrow for them to normally get through the trucks, and in some risky situation there would be an additional stopper very quickly. In those four minutes, something could happen to burn down the whole house. It is not only a place to work here, but it is also an environmentally questionable one, and it is certainly a risky factory. Now, on behalf of safety, the crossing of the railway is closed, on which no one really remembers any mention of a valuable accident, while at the same time opening the door the possibility or increasing the possibility of the entire factory being burned to the air. My question is indeed an initiative – a moratorium on the closure of this transition until the entire renovation of the mountain line is implemented and an alternative is provided in this context. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you for asking, Mr. Kordish. It's not as simple as you just presented it. It is from your parliamentary group that I get the most criticism of how slow our trains are, how our rail network is too weak and so on. If we want to speed up rail connections, a few of these level crossings in our country will have to be cut off. Yeah, for safety. You can believe it. You can't believe it. I didn't think of it. Already in 2008, 24. 11. The Minister’s decision to regulate this transition was signed. In April 2019, the Commission once again saw this arrangement for the level crossings of the Ljubljana–Esenice route with the local road, and this Commission found that the arrangements were inconsistent with the provisions of the Railway Safety Act, the Level Passage Regulation and the Upper Regulation. As Minister, I swore I'd work in accordance with the law, and I think it's my job, that's the first thing. The second thing, the security and the people are in the first place. What do these differences relate to in these three points? To the vicinity of the checkpoints, the inappropriate distance between the level crossings, the signal signs for stopping trains. I know the problem, I've been talking not to the mayor, but to the mayor myself. As I said, if we want to put things in order and then if each Member will tell us where this level crossing should remain open, even though it is not okay from the point of view of security, then we will continue to have a rail network from time to time, I say, Mary Teresa. Yeah, it's so sad. I won't work against the law. We meet congregations where we can, believe you, go against the congregations. But if we want our trains to be able to drive faster because every level crossing means stopping, and if that's enough to drive 40 an hour, then don't ask me next time why we don't have faster connections and why our people don't like to ride trains. The answer to your question is that this is only happening in terms of security.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you. First of all, Mary Teresa did not build railways, with us, specifically for the mountain tracks, built in the time of Franz Joseph, the then Austro-Hungarian emperor, this as the first thing. Second of all, trains with us are really slow, but it's not because of one of the low-level crossings on Trata in Škofja Loka, but because of the too short run tracks on the mountain track, because the signalling is 40 years old and so on and so on. Now I'm not saying that this transition in itself may not be risky. I say, for the first time, if we are moving in the area of security, it is necessary to know that if this transition is closed, the intervention path is extended by 4 to 5 minutes, that this intervention path is paved along narrow roads, and in fact, we have placed the inhabitants of Trat under the line in greater danger than they are now exposed to this railway crossing, whose risk statistics do not recognize. However, I believe that this railway crossing could be safer, so I am not saying that it should remain open indefinitely. All I am saying is that the railways will only be speeding up with complete renovations and that such a reconstruction is foreseen for the mountain track, and I hope that the amendment that will allow it in 2020, 2021 will be adopted, in the budget, but I say that it should not go to closing this door to the nose, as is now envisaged, and that it will be done from a pure bureaucratic caprice, but that it should be possible to introduce moratoriums into this closure, to wait for the reconstruction of the mountain line to be carried out, within which an alternative, an overpass, an undercarriage, however, is not an engineer to be able to explain to you here in detail, but by then allowing those villagers to use this transition, which they have been using for decades. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u132	Yes, Mr Kordish, even if they are, I know, from the time of Franz Joseph, we probably cannot be very proud of this. We are doing everything we can to restore the rail network throughout the country at some point in time, of course not overnight. It is difficult to say that at this level of transition, what did you say? On your nose. It's been working since 2008, and I'm not going to be the minister who's going to be responsible for doing anything at this crossing. If you're gonna take this on your back, okay, I'm sure I won't. I said it's from a security point of view. As far as the burner is concerned, yes, it makes absolutely sense and we will begin to restore it, because the tunnel of Karavanka is closed, which means that much of the traffic will be disabled. As far as the amendments you mentioned are concerned, however, they are totally unnecessary, because in the following year, as much money as you have earmarked for this burner, it is not possible to realize, unfortunately, that this was later explained on the committee. So, you have my commitment that in the next year, we will provide money for as much as we can in the next year. As you know, we have a dedicated item. One part that will not be spent this year will be spent precisely on this mountain line. It's the right thing to do. Maybe one more thing. I also think the two amendments were adopted here, 90 million euros would be provided next year for this section, we need a little more than a tenth of that. And the money you wanted to redistribute has been redeployed from non-budgetary sources. So the amendment doesn't even drink water, but even if the amendment isn't adopted, the next year the restoration of the burner will go away. As for the level crossing, once again, I ask you to understand that things are happening for safety, not on your nose, because they have been happening since 2008, there have been a lot of meetings, I believe they will still be. But if we want to make our trains faster, more of these level crossings will have to be lifted. And I know that when people are used to something, it's hard to get away, but in the end, when they find out that it's actually because of them and their safety, they kind of buy it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you, I am not satisfied with the Minister's response and I would like to discuss this subject in the National Assembly. Of course, I would like us to talk more about the need to modernise the rail network in general. But very specifically with your answer, Madam Minister, the people concerned with the closure of this railway crossing in Škofja Loka on Trata can help the pines little or nothing. You can say that it closes for safety, you can ask a rhetorical question if I take a potential accident on my shoulders, but the same can be asked. Your acts, your regulations – do they provide that the intervention path for firefighters is extended? Will you take over on your shoulders if, by shutting down this railway passage into the air, the oxygen plant takes half the village with it? That's what I'm talking about. Of course, I can buy an argument and I understand that according to the PS, according to the acts, this passage across the railway is risky. But, first of all, people do not remember that there would be any serious accident there at any time, and secondly, the closure of this railway crossing is linked to other consequences, in particular the extension of the intervention path. And under the line, when we put all this together, we have found that we have not contributed to the safety of the Trata people already, but we have taken away their safety and exposed them to a significantly greater risk. It is also true that the story of this transition is such that it has been written for a long time, but it is impossible to avoid the impression that it is on the security side, at the end of the day, of a bureaucratic imagination that works on the neck. This transition has been there for decades, so there is no need to close it now. Even if an upgrade of the railway line is envisaged, an alternative may be provided. Undercarriage, for example, if this line crossing has to be closed. There's no reason not to. They also knew the local Trate at the convention to say that they had been promised some kind of alternative. While we are talking about the fact that the closure of this transition is already taking place, some of the participants there had information that they had been promised an alternative instead of this line crossing. In short, I am not saying that it is necessary to break the laws, to do something contrary to your conscience, which would increase the risk to the inhabitants, I say in fact the opposite. Firstly, due to the closure of this transition, the danger will be greater than if it is open and, secondly, that the closure of this transition will therefore be retained until an alternative is established.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertontzl. The minister's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you, President, for your word. I regret that there is no Minister of Finance. At six sessions he was only here once, so we could also tell them that it is important for these issues to be here. In general, Mr Minister, three members of the Petrol administration have been being replaced in the media for several weeks. As a result, differences in the strategy between the Administration and the Supervisory Council were first cited, and then a number of assumptions emerged as to what was really behind. The question was whether Petrol’s supervisory board was independent in its decision-making or whether a policy had been involved in the replacement of three members of the board. The fact is that the administration of our largest energy society has acted well, as the results show. In the first half of this year, the group increased net profit by 4 % and business profit by 23 %. For these reasons, the change of administration at first sight was an unusual and illogical move. On 7 November, an urgent meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances was convened on the topic of governance of state-owned companies and political personnel, at which Members were informed of the reasons for the departure of the Petrol administration. At the end of the meeting, some Members expressed their satisfaction with the responses of the President of the Supervisory Board and assessed the conduct of the Supervisory Board as appropriate. Unfortunately, there were no specific comments after the meeting, since the meeting was closed to the public in this part. Let me remind you that recently, Infrastructure Minister Alenka Bratusek to the Government has proposed that the Government's consent should be obtained when appointing directors of state-owned enterprises. At that time, both the media lynch and the dissatisfaction of coalition partners were granted. In replacing the Petrol administration, however, the general public and the media are amazed at the fact that the whole event took place without knowledge or policy. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: How do you comment on the whole thing in the Petrol case? What is your position on interfering with this type of recruitment? Would it be right to express consent when appointing directors of state-owned enterprises or not? After the breakup of events in recent months, it seems that neither the proposal for consent nor the resolution of the knowledge of politics is acceptable. Thank you for the answers I'm about to ask orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. At the next meeting, I hope you will receive the Minister's oral reply. The next one's gonna be mag. Mr Dejan Kaloh, who will ask the question to Justice Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u138	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear fellow Members, distinguished Minister Andrej Katič! In this last audit, the Court of Auditors is aware of the effectiveness of the system of conduct of urgent proceedings in the judiciary, in several places it has pointed out that the matter is partially effective and that it is also limping about the exercise of control over urgent procedural acts. This audit, as you know, is also carried out at the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the District Court in Celje and the District Attorney's Office in Celje. The audits covered a period of two and a half years, then we are not talking about your mandate, about any possible responsibility, because it was from 1 January 2014 to 31 May 2016, but I note that it is a fairly broad audit of time, which of course can show a lot. I believe that you have looked at this audit, from the lack of the normative framework that I mentioned to you, to the disagreement in the business times of the courts where the cases are different. However, as far as the Ministry is concerned, the evident Court of Auditors is concerned, in particular, that during this period when the audit was carried out, a supervisory service was not established and there was no judicial review of the prosecution. In two and a half years, they haven't used any judicial supervision in the DA's office. Already in these pressing cases, such as pending cases, there would be some judicial supervision to be carried out. I want to know: Have you already carried out any indirect or direct judicial supervision in your mandate? However, I am also concerned that you are the only authorities to have cooperated during the audit, but you say that you are creative, but on the other hand, the Court of Auditors requires the submission of a response report, precisely because the appropriate corrective measures have been taken by other authorities, not your ministry. And now I want to know: What kind of creative cooperation is it that the Ministry alone does not remedy the shortcomings during the audit? Where were your reservations or, if I say so domestically, in the notes, where did it go? Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, honourable Member, for this matter. Indeed, the audit was carried out between 2014 and 2016, but unfortunately this area was not later given sufficient attention. However, it is true that this is connected not only with the work of the Ministry of Justice, but also in cooperation with the Supreme Court, as far as the judiciary is concerned, with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, as far as the prosecution is concerned, but also indirectly with other stakeholders, I am referring to the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance. As part of this, we have known from the outset that challenges are in this area, so we have also prepared the necessary amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which unfortunately have not yet been adopted because there was no full consistency with the Supreme Court in some other part. So I believe we'll continue with that. But it's not that simple. Why? We now have 90 days to give a response report, during which time we will draw up a precise plan, which I hope we will be able to stick to. This is a difficult matter, which requires amendments to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Services, at the very least, are amendments to the Rules of Procedure and amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which must be aligned with all the judicial stakeholders and other ministries that I have already listed. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I believe that we will be able to reconcile relatively quickly with other stakeholders. It is true, though, that when the prosecution and the judiciary are compared, they have different views on how something should be arranged. I am also talking about e-business, including other labour legislation, and so we already have, I think, an 18th meeting at the Ministry of Public Administration, where we believe that we will be able to reach a course in which we can also think. Thank you for that question. Indeed, we will try to stick to the calendar, which we will also submit to the Court of Auditors as a response report. It is true, however, that, given the situation that it is difficult to supply other materials, we are talking about the recast of the judicial network in general, the introduction of a single judge. The state's attorney's law will, I think, be a little easier. I believe, however, that we will be able to reconcile relatively quickly with stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u142	Chairman, thank you very much. Madam Minister, thank you for this part of your answers. However, you did not mention what I have already asked you on one Justice Committee about a single information system at the level of all courts, this is very important. You even once told me when I asked you, I told you when it would be optimal, so you replied that it would probably never be optimal. However, I think that some approximation of this optimumness must be precisely due to these schedules of judges and state prosecutors, that it is somehow then at least optimally flowing. I want to know: What have you done so far, in this year of your mandate, to establish a single information system? I know the U.S. Attorney's office does that. What was your role here, or contribution to greater unity at the level of all the courts and state prosecutors? You said you had to prepare an activity plan within three months, which is what the Court of Auditors gave you now. But the real question is within this deadline: How long are these corrective measures actually going to run so that this will not stretch out again into an indefinite future? The Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Public Prosecutions provide for these necessary procedural actions. Will you, in particular, propose any legal changes in these urgent procedural actions that are standardized in these two laws, since the most obvious was precisely for these urgent procedural actions to be very limping? That's what I'm interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you. I think that, as far as electronic commerce is concerned, we have established a dialogue. There have been quite a few meetings, and in the final phase there is also a rule that must be in line with all stakeholders, so I believe that we will move forward quickly here. Of course, both in court and in the prosecutor's office, this is also about drawing funds from effective justice, which is one of our priorities. As I said at the time, we had difficulties in providing adequate staff at the Ministry of Justice. We still have challenges, but we have made moves, and I believe that this cooperation has been established between all stakeholders, so that the projects will continue. At the moment, I would not know what the timelines are, as far as e-commerce is concerned, also related to European resource draw-up projects. As for the preparation of the matter of all laws, we first wanted a mini novel of the Law on Courts or the Law on Judicial Service, concerning the award of a judge, but we received a rather negative position on the part of the Council of Justice. I now intend to plan a meeting with the President of the Council of Justice, then also with the President of the Supreme Court, to see how, in a way, we can get a coordinated solution, because I am aware that if it comes to Parliament and the solution is not in line with all the judicial stakeholders, that you, honourable Members and Members will probably not support it. The Law on the Courts, the Law on Judicial Service, as well as the whole new law, and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, I think that we will bring it somehow in the second year so that we can also submit it to the National Assembly. However, this depends, of course, on all judicial stakeholders, including on mutual communication, especially on the ability to coordinate, to yield, to cooperate, as I said, with other ministries. For, for example, the Ministry of Public Administration certainly has a large part of the word in this particular area, which is the most mentioned here in this report. However, I believe that the State Prosecutor's Council will have agreed before this. I haven't replied before about the controls. I don't know exactly, but the service that oversees the functioning of the judiciary, what's in our jurisdiction, is running fast. However, it has not been clear from this Court of Auditors report or where the powers of the Ministry of Justice are mixed, but where the powers of the Presidents are concerned, says the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Ambassador Blaž Pavlin will ask Justice Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Madam Minister, we have long been able to monitor the difficulties of ensuring adequate living conditions in Slovenian prisons, which are important both to respect the dignity of detained and imprisoned persons and to ensure the safety and working conditions of employees. I want to know: How busy is the capacity in Slovenian prisons? What is the total number of prisoners in each institution? How many prisoners can each institution accept? Do some media say that some prisons are so crowded that prisoners do not have beds in them and sleep on mattresses on the floor? Can you ensure that Slovenia meets European Union standards in this area? Does it hold that data on the structure of prisoners and detainees can no longer be obtained online from 2 September of this year? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you for that question. I can't say this very last question about the structure of the prisoners in mind, but it is true that when we thought that in this year we had made a very great deal of effort, both the temporary leadership of the Slovenian Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, together with the representatives of trade unions, both leaders and trade unionists in individual prisons, we have recently faced too much congestion of individual prisons. If we just look at the numbers at 15. 11. 2019, a total of 1,000 500 people are imprisoned in Slovenian prisons. If we look at the specific numbers that are on date 6. 11. because you were interested in the state: Age of Capacity 449, numeric state 486; Celje 98, numeric state 120; Nova Gorica 28, numeric state 36; Ljubljana 135, 193; Novo mesto 35, 46; Maribor 146, 178. I've only highlighted the ones where the numbers are the most in the sky. It is true that most of the belongings have been increased due to detention, and in most cases all of this after Article 308 is said to be Article 13. 11. We have as many as 106 convicts and 194 detainees precisely because of this article, I am talking about smuggling, so we are facing a major problem. And if we look at the number of foreigners compared to the previous year, the nominal figure has increased from 646 to 874, that is, from the previous 18% to 23.5%, which represents very large challenges for us. As President of the Justice Committee, you know that we have not yet filled all the available quotas, as far as the employment of judicial officers is concerned, that we have the challenges both in Cyprus and in Ljubljana to obtain the staff that would like to enter this profession. The fact that we have so many foreigners from different countries also poses other security risks. What I'm talking about is that we have a language barrier, it's being placed as the biggest problem, it's being said that this is a problem in communication. When you spoke, we tried, and we are still trying to allow the right conditions, as European standards require of us, but unfortunately in all past years we face the need to pay certain compensations. Until a new man's prison and a woman's prison on Ig is built, we'll probably have a hard time ensuring these standards. We provide them in such a way that we try to transfer persons from one prison to another prison, depending on what the situation is. And it is true, in all prisons where necessary, that we have rearranged all available premises, so that we can also install detainees. We're definitely trying. As possible, we have already identified some solutions, some are more short-term, some are long-term, all not even related to our options. I've already mentioned the regular transfer of convicts to open wards, which, as I said, is a regular scratch, of course, depending. We also offered opportunities to study partial amnesty or pardons. This is a matter that is very difficult and also requires more coordination and takes longer. Then the possibility of rapid adaptation, wherever it is, at existing locations. For example, at the Age we made proposals to install some temporary facilities, containers, so that we could also get additional spatial capacity. We are already negotiating with the police, as far as their assistance is concerned, because this human resources crisis not only with the judicial police, but also with the professional colleagues who have so much more work, means that we often cancel our escort to the court, so we are already talking to the police here. And let's say, in Cyprus, this has already been done, and the police have been able to help us do that. I think that this will be increasingly needed in the future, at least until we get a sufficient number of law enforcement officers, the existing quotas will not be sufficient here, and we also do not have additional quotas for professional colleagues. However, the second step is to examine legislation on change in criminal policy in the longer term. We are also counting heavily on the Probation Authority, which is very good at carrying out its tasks, and I believe that it will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you again for your word. Also at the last meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, we have learned from the representatives of the Ministry of Interior and Police that the number of offences prohibited from crossing the border or the territory of the State increased by 71 % between January and October 2019 compared to last year. Most importantly, by 582%, the crime of smuggling has increased within criminal groups. Thus, according to reports from the 272 Committee, the Slovenian police dealt with 395 human smugglers, 365 foreigners and 40 Slovenian citizens. For the most part, he was put in detention. According to the Ministry of the Interior, this is mainly for foreign citizens who have status in the European Union countries. I want to know: Have you, at the Ministry of Justice, also considered expelling or speeding up the return of detained foreigners to their countries of origin?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u152	As far as the decisions of the courts are concerned, we very much welcome those cases of good practice relating mainly to these "fast track" procedures, some courts or individual judges already successfully implement them. This means essentially the fastest time when we have a prisoner or a prisoner in Slovenia and after the payment of the fine and the expulsion. Of course, it will be here, at this stage, how to speed it up, taking into account all the rights that people have in the procedures that still need a lot of effort, both with different courts, especially those at the border, if I say so, which are the most confronted with this. But all this talk with the presidents of the courts has already begun. We familiarize them with examples of good practice. Even when I talked about changing penal policy, changing individual laws, we will address in what way, in fact, we can achieve that not only in Slovenia, but we can give them to their home countries as soon as possible, where, of course, in accordance with all the standards, we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ambassador Franz Jurša will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u154	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Law on Development Support to Pomurje was adopted in order to stop and create conditions for the start of restructuring and development of other Slovenian regions and to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. With regard to the implementation of this law, I have observed that quite a bit of money has been lost in the implementation of the Law on the Development Support of Pomur, our region, 2010-2019. Companies have gone bankrupt and jobs are gone. Let me illustrate the example of the tropicano, which is not just a snack shop, is a bit more in the guest area, and in 2015 it received 310 000 Euros of grants. It's closed now. As many as 15 companies that have received state aid in ten years have already been removed from the Registry of Justice and eight have ended up in bankruptcy. It must be said that the owners of the larger cities are the founders of hollow companies only for the benefit of relief and state aid for the development of Pomurje, and in the end they have not remained jobs in Pomurje, and the country has lost the taxpayer's money. Thus, 600,000 Euros of taxpayer money went bankrupt. The removal of businesses, however, lost the impact of state aid on almost EUR 2 million. I'm asking: How do you supervise the implementation of the Development Support Act 2010-2019 at the Ministry responsible for the implementation of this law, since it is clear from the above that money has not actually been spent in support of Pomurje or the region in the period 2010-2019? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u156	President, Mr Franz Jurša, Members and Members of Parliament! The law on development support for the Pomurska region was adopted 22. Ten. 2009 and started to apply 1. Ten. 2010 The Law, with all its amendments, provides that additional funds of EUR 33 million shall be earmarked from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region in the period 2010-2019. The law was adopted as part of measures to address the acute economic situation in the Pomurska region following the bankruptcy of several key companies, including Mura, d.d. At the time of the adoption of this Act, the least developed Slovenian region, with major infrastructure deficiencies, especially water supply and development infrastructures, was also far from developed. The law will be fully implemented by the end of 2019. Economic performance in the pomur region has improved in recent years; the registered unemployment rate is much lower than the critical 17%. The measures and incentives adopted had a positive impact on the Pomur region. Companies that have received incentives for investment have been technologically updated faster than they would otherwise have been. Jobs have been maintained and new jobs have been created. Only under the first instrument, under the Pomeranian Region Competitiveness Promotion Programme, will more than 900 new jobs be created in the area of law. Each year an annual report on the implementation of the Government Act shall be drawn up for the National Assembly containing more detailed information on all the measures taken and their effects. The reports that have been prepared so far are collected and made publicly available on our ministry's website. During the ten years in force, 231 projects were approved, and 224 projects were co-financed for a total of 151 companies. MGRT has no impact on decisions relating to the operations of undertakings authorised to co-finance investments and we are actively monitoring the implementation of all contractual obligations and the fulfilment of indicators. Three years after the completion of the individual project, we do this all in accordance with the State aid rules. In particular, with regard to the company you mentioned as an example, MGRT co-financed the reconstruction of Zvezda Pizzeria in Ljutomer of EUR 310 000 742 as a project. The total investment was EUR 842 000 456. The company Gypsy, d. o. o., the investor, contractually committed itself to the employment of ten people. In accordance with the State aid rules, the company was obliged to maintain its posts three years after the completion of the investment, which is until the end of 2018. All contractual obligations have been met. According to the above information, the owner of the property in which the property is located is sold, but the formal ministry after the expiry of the three-year period has no control over it. Once the facility is sold, the fact is that the new owner will also operate and employ at this same location. We believe that we need to focus on the fact that this investment has restored the facility in Ljutomer, which at the time meant a multiplier effect in the area, operated for more than three years, pizzerias, cafes and accommodations, and will also, after sale with the new owner, employ this restored facility in the area of tourism, where we record growth and thus expect further successful operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have a further question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you for this part of the answer, Mr. Minister. I fully agree with what you said, but what is more crucial to me is what those companies are, say 15 of them, which I mentioned in my question, one of them were straw companies, they were in Pomurje, and they were actually coming from elsewhere, and they were just using the funds, and eight of them went into bankruptcy For these companies, please give me an answer, Mr Minister. And of course, I'm curious: Do you think at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology about helping Pomura in the future? After all, some breakthrough was made mainly because companies have also started to operate well because they are much exported abroad. Some companies are quite good companies, better companies in the pomura area. Yeah, we're aware of that. I would just like to ask you to complete the answer to a question that I have asked around these 15 plus 8 companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u160	First of all, on this last thing you said. We have also been helping Pomura through this law, within the framework of, say, the Investment Promotion Act over the past two years, we have opened several important new investment projects throughout the Pmurje area, and I think it is a multimillion-dollar amount. We opened the last story about a month or two ago. For your particular companies, I can say that all these companies have performed their functions for three years, as long as it is legal. I doubt that we can tell such companies that they are strawed or hollow companies if they have operated for three years. Then we can say that we basically had the wrong conditions for granting this aid, but we inherited it, we stick to it. As I said, the law was or will be fully implemented by the end of this year, and all these companies have met the conditions for these three years. But once again, for these specific eight, which I do not have listed here in the question, I will welcome these matters, and also for those additional six that you mentioned. But according to our data, what we control has been realized by these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Ambassador Kepa will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. I welcome the minister, the minister, my colleagues and my colleagues! Today, it is a major problem to obtain accommodations in a nursing home, so more needs to be done in this area for our loved ones who need care and assistance. In Slovenia, there are currently fewer than 10,000 people waiting for a place in the nursing home, which is about 40 to 50 new homes. The last one that helped build the country was 20 years ago in full. In the meantime, the issues are mitigated by concessions granted to private individuals, which are 30 per cent more expensive than public institutions. Additional assistance is home care, day care in homes, individual rental of help at home, and so on. I myself have been a member of the DSO Council for almost two terms, and I have been a president for some time, so I understand the problem very well. The problem at home for the elderly presents one of the biggest development challenges for all of us, because sooner or later we will need such services alone or our closest ones. A very pressing problem is also the conversion of rooms with a large number of beds into single and double rooms in already existing homes. The phenomenon of dementity in society is the most pronounced and thus the need for special services and accommodation in homes. The Ministry has allocated additional funds, €5 million for the second year, which is not nearly enough for a single home. There is an urgent need to get additional money for the construction of these. Funding from cohesion European schemes in the next perspective would also be needed, and other countries should make better use of this. The future is probably also in the transformation of home for the elderly. What will you do to improve the situation in this area? Where will you get the necessary funds to build? Is there anything else you can do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please. Check out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u164	President, thank you for your word. And thank you so much for asking. The additional capacity of home care for the elderly is necessary, but it should also be pointed out that the provision of services for the elderly in Slovenia still predominates the services of home or institutional protection for the elderly. In the past, the development of institutional protection for the elderly and much less the development of services in the community has been supported in Slovenia. The public debate is also currently focused on institutionalisation. The very insufficient development of community services increases the pressure on institutional protection, which is also reflected in the increased number of deposits made for housing in nursing homes. In the public debate on the development of services for older people, we would also like to see greater social protection roles. Slovenia's focus in the coming period in view of the European trends in the development of long-term care, in particular in view of the wishes of the elderly and their owners, is not in raising the level of institutionalisation of older people, but mainly in the development of community services, in order to enable older people to choose and stay as long as possible in the home environment. It is in the area of transition from institutional to community services that we are making significant moves this year. The European Cohesion Fund will finance the project of transformation of two social protection institutions – home in Kras and CUDV Montenegro, where institutional transitions to community services will be ensured for the community of 30 to 140 residents from both institutions. For the elderly, we are planning a project to co-finance infrastructure for day centres for the elderly, under which the provision of 30 units is envisaged. The number of beneficiaries will depend on the size of the individual unit. These forms of day care that will be provided by nursing homes will enable older people to remain in domestic care as long as possible with adequate support from their relatives. We are aware that, despite this additional capacity, it is necessary. Most additional facilities or new homes for the elderly are built by concessionaires. On the basis of the invitation to tender published in 2017, 928 concession cities were awarded. By the end of 2020, 574 additional cities are expected to be built. New homes for the elderly will be built in the following municipalities: Command, Loška dolina, Jury, Železniki, Maribor, Hoče-Slivnica and Lenart. In the municipality of Sveti Tomaž, a new system was opened last week for the elderly, an intergenerational centre. The opening was 14. 11. In the future, we already have the approval from the Ministry of Health to further expand the public service of institutional protection for the elderly for an additional 700 cities; either in the context of the construction of new units of existing public institutions in cooperation with private investors and municipalities in the form of a public-private partnership under the new tender or for the award of concessions. Additional capacity will also be provided under available budgetary resources through direct investment in public institutions. This year we co-finance the construction of a new unit of the House of Pensioners Center on the Regent road in Ljubljana – 44 seats for residents with dementia will be in the new unit – two households with dementia also in the Postojna House of Pensioners. The construction of a new protected department in the special social security institution Dom Lukavaci is also financed, which will be completed by the end of this year. The opening of an additional protected department will eliminate problems and detect violations in the accommodation of persons in protected departments of special welfare institutions. We increase institutional protection capacities in Slovenia, new units are being built home for the elderly, new departments for dementia are being built, and the fact is that we are not establishing new public institutions. In the budgets for 2020 and 2021, we are planning higher funds, amounting to €5 million per year for investing in homes in the elderly. By comparison, in 2016 only EUR 345 000 was allocated to senior homes by the State. The measures envisaged or possible solutions will be aimed at providing additional funds to build a home for the elderly, the invitation to tender or the award of concessions or a public-private partnership, in particular the provision of European funds during the 2021-2027 programming period. We are preparing a new operational programme here as a matter of priority. Indeed, we would like the European funds to build infrastructure at home for the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You yourself mentioned that the problem is very pressing, so you would also touch existing homes for the elderly. Here you also gave a standard to reduce the number of beds in the rooms by 2021 – only if it is extended. There are existing homes that have five beds in their rooms. They're supposed to be at least two, possibly three. The homes themselves do not have this money to redecorate or make it very difficult. Even in our place – this is the last home you made 20 years ago – there are many such rooms in Trebnje. Home itself does not have the money to redecorate or make it very difficult. For such purposes, the State should also raise or reserve money to help. You were also sent to the D.I.P., but there was no answer that it would be later. Therefore, in view of what is going on in Slovenia, I think that the emphasis must be very great in order to help reduce this in all areas, at all ends or in more ways. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u168	With regard to the specific home for Trebnje, it is difficult for me to answer you because I do not know the specific situation, but we can then give you in writing what is going on with the planning of the funds for the home in question. The fact is that the Regulation on Minimum Technical Standards requires older people to have their rooms redesigned. We will extend this technical requirement, this transitional period; that is, at the moment, the state does not have the means to change these capacities. We need to know that when we change the number of beds, three-bedroom or five-bedroom beds into double beds, we lose a certain number of capacity. At this point, we see a more sensible solution to extend this transitional period and gradually, even when we can provide additional funds through European funds, we provide these technical requirements. As I said in the introduction, we will also try to find different situations through public-private partnership. Indeed, the pressure on institutional protection is also high because we have not developed deinstitutional forms at the same time. We would like to follow the example of the Netherlands, for example, the so-called fifth-generation homes, which are fully open to the local environment with their services, which means that they allow an individual to stay at home as long as possible – I say on his couch – but if he is staying at home, he must stay well, meaning that there must be developed deinstitutionalization services. To make this more concrete: help at home in the form of a diet to enable an individual to clean his apartment, wash his laundry and also social inclusion, because the problem of the elderly is also very large. We find that there are as many as 25 percent of those in nursing homes who could be at home if they had all these services developed. In this way, we will try to develop both institutional infrastructure and all deinstitutionalisation services at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u169	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's a problem all over the country. You yourself have mentioned that it is good to have them at home and help them, but not everyone can be at home. If he is demented, he should be admitted to an institution or taken care of by a relative or a third party. I mean, this has been mentioned that more aid is needed, as this has been under-emphasized in 20 years and will therefore have to be found in all areas. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to hold a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow or Thursday in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Lidija Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr Aleksandri Pivec. The minister's a percentage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u172	Chairman, thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! In the last month, we are again faced with a case of controversial food found on the shelves of various trading chains. Let me mention just three examples: meat preparations to which allergen additives from a group of sulphites, sulphur dioxide, disputed meat from Austrian slaughterhouses that appear in Slovenian producers' products and the last honey affair in which traces of antibiotics were found. These are just the last cases that the public has heard about, and in some cases it is too late. Instead of getting caught with the problem of importing food of suspicious origin and protecting domestic producers, hunting and punishing an honest Slovenian farmer who sells some eggs or litres of milk to a neighbor for naked survival. Given the fact that it was on day 12. 3. 2019 at the Department of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection of employees of 422 public servants, of which 288 inspectors, I am interested: How many inspections were carried out together in 2019? Which foods are most frequently subject to inspection? Why did it take 3 months for the use of sulphites in meat preparations to start with a special tighter control in which the use of sulphites was also detected in the slaughterhouses of other trade chains? Did the inspection assume that during the increased demand for meat products, meat butchers would not use sulphite? Is there not a suitable staff among employees to provide timely information to the public or if the problem is affecting somewhere else? Perhaps 288 inspectors are not enough to work during the summer months or are all on vacation at that time? I'd like an oral response from the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We will continue to ask Mr Primož Siter the next question, namely, to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Minister, hello, colleagues and colleagues! In recent times, in the last good half or in a bad year, we have talked long and wide about problems in homes for older citizens. One of the key problems we have highlighted is overcrowding in homes and living conditions in homes. Of course, the news from the field is bad, and the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia also reports on the data of 11,000 waiting adults and no single beds. I don't want to draw too many black scenarios, but still, such a catastrophic situation can be attributed to the fact that, let's say, a good decade ago, the country decided not to invest strategically in this area, that it would not build a strong and quality network of public homes for the elderly. The door opened to concessionaires, with this market and market logic. Today, however, the situation is more than black or catastrophic; caring for the elderly has thus become a business rather than a public interest. I will not repeat myself with all the statistics that we have really seen in this institution for the past six months for a long and wide period, but the fact is that the key problem is that there is no quality network of public homes. In Levica, we believe that this is the only way forward to solve this problem, to build a high-quality network of public homes and to allocate enough budgetary resources to do so. Since we are in the budget meeting, it is imperative to say that we have earmarked €65 million for this purpose with the amendments to the budgets for the following year and 2021. The current cut, 14 million, is enough just for some minor opposite maintenance operations after this network home for the elderly. That's why I'm asking: Why hasn't Slovenia built one home in the last decade and a half? Why is there no money in the budget for building even one home for older citizens, but if we have been talking for a year and we find that the country has to start building new public homes? Do you estimate that with the existing concession scheme, the country can ensure the availability of home care for nearly 12 thousand waiting adults? Do you agree that Slovenia should start building public homes for older citizens after all this time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. The Ministry has taken an active approach to developing solutions to the challenges in the area of home for the elderly and the wider care of the elderly. As we pointed out a month ago in the framework of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, two meetings of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and the Commission on Petitions of Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry is preparing actions on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors and the responses from the field. As part of the preparation of the measures, we are committed to finding solutions to existing problems and challenges. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the preparation of a proposal for a new legislation on long-term care. In the area of assistance to the elderly, we need to improve the accessibility of services, which can only be ensured by the creation of a new pillar of social security in the form of a long-term care law. Additional household protection capacity is required for the elderly. It should also be pointed out that with regard to the provision of services for older people in Slovenia, the services of home or institutional protection of older people still prevail. In the past, the development of institutional protection was mainly supported in Slovenia and much less the development of services in the community. The public debate is also currently focused on institutionalisation. The lack of development of services in the community, however, increases the pressure on institutional protection, which is also reflected in the increased number of deposits made for housing in nursing homes. In the public debate on the development of services for older people, we would also like to see greater social protection roles. Slovenia's focus in the coming period, taking into account the European trends in the development of long-term care, in particular in view of the wishes of the elderly and their relatives, is not in raising the institutionalisation of the elderly, but in increasing the development of community services, so as to enable older people to choose and stay as long as possible in the domestic environment. It is in the area of transition from institutional to community services that we are making significant moves this year. The project of transformation of two social security institutions is funded from European cohesion funds, which is at home in Kras and CUDV Montenegro, where institutional transitions to community services will be ensured for a total of 130 to 140 residents from both institutions. For the elderly, we are planning an infrastructure co-financing project for the day centres for the elderly, under which the provision of 30 units is envisaged. The number of beneficiaries will depend on the size of the individual unit. These forms of day care that will be provided by nursing homes will allow older ones to remain in domestic care longer with adequate support from their relatives. We are aware that, despite this additional capacity, it is necessary. Most additional facilities or new homes for the elderly are built by concessionaires. On the basis of the invitation to tender published in 2017, 928 concession cities were awarded. By the end of 2020, 574 more are expected to be provided and built. New homes for the elderly will be built in the following municipalities: Command, Loška dolina, Jury, Železniki, Maribor, Hoče-Slivnica and Lenart. In the municipality of Sveti Tomaž, a new home for the elderly and the intergenerational centre was opened last week. In the future, we have an additional 700 seats from the Ministry of Health approved for the further expansion of the public service of institutional protection for the elderly, either in the context of the construction of new units, existing public institutions, in cooperation with private investors and municipalities in the form of a public-private partnership, or in the context of a new tender. Additional capacity will also be provided under available budgetary resources through direct investment in public institutions. This year we co-financed the construction of a new unit of homes of pensioners Center on Regent Road in Ljubljana, two household groups for residents with dementia we also co-financed in the home of pensioners Postojna. The construction of a new protected work is also financed in the special social security institution Dom Lukavaci, which will be completed by the end of this year. The opening of an additional protected department will eliminate problems and detect violations in the accommodation of persons in protected departments of special welfare institutions. We increase institutional protection capacities in Slovenia, new units are being built home for the elderly, new departments for dementia are being built, and the fact is that we are not establishing new public institutions. In the budgets for 2020 and 2021, we are planning higher funds, amounting to 5 million per year to invest in homes for the elderly. By comparison, in 2016 only EUR 345 000 was allocated to senior homes by the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your reply, Mr Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I understand from this that, in principle, the ministry is more inclined at this point, if I quote you, to cooperate with private investors than to build a public network of public institutions, which I find extremely problematic because the practice has proved infertile. Since, as the Court of Auditors has also found, what these companies have done is that at the rates of people who were in their homes they charged investment costs. So, say, these companies did not invest their money, as they should by some logical business method, but they invested the money of these people, users and users at home for the elderly, their local communities or their relatives who pay for them. This is why it is not a public-private partnership; this is about exploiting the residents and residents of these homes for the elderly, and then in the worst case scenario they had to overpay for their basic services. Since my time is limited, I would like to point out that in Levica we do not object to these alternatives, or to the fifth generation of homes in connection with the local community, or whatever, but I would like to point out once again the question: I ask you to define yourself before the amendment of the Left to the budget, which will spend an additional €65 million on building a home for the elderly over the next two years, which will at least roughly address the problem that we have – 11,000 people waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u180	Maybe I'll say a few words about these 11,000 and a few more words waiting. We need to know that beneficiaries often make deposits also in stock. We have been in public institutions and directors all the time, of which 11,000 is necessary to receive about ten percent or a few thousand. In what way do we see solutions or measures envisaged? We absolutely agree and wish to provide additional funds to build a home for the elderly, i.e. for investments. We see solutions in both the public-private partnership and the provision of European funds in the new programming period 2021-2027. I must say that I was very surprised myself, at the Ministry, when I was told that, in the current financial perspective, it was not possible to use European funds to build institutions, i.e. to build infrastructure, but only for soft content. I do not agree with this alone because I say that we can only implement soft content when we have built infrastructure. Thus, as far as the new operational programme is concerned, we will focus our efforts on providing European funds for the construction of infrastructure. As far as market logic is concerned, I might point to one fact. We compared the prices of concessionaires and concessions and prices in public institutions. I might say that when we compared the cheapest concession agency with the most expensive public office, we found that the public office is thirty percent more expensive than the cheapest concession agency. The problem of concessions, especially in Ljubljana, is precisely because of the more expensive land. While in another, more rural environment, there is no difference between prices. However, we have already set up a working group at the Ministry, and we would like to stress this in particular, including in line with the Court of Auditors' findings, for the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of social security services. It will prepare possible solutions in this Regulation setting out the prices for the application of the level of funding costs in terms of identifying the systemic weaknesses of that Regulation, in which the limits of the level of funding costs are foreseen but the conditions of the manner in which the restriction may be implemented are not defined. In short, to be able to control these things, we must first correct the rulebook. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u182	I will ask the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject, especially since: for the first time – as you are, Minister – you are now the last to say. The problem is that pricing is left to each institution individually, that there are no uniform guidelines, in the part that they are, homes explain them in their own way. Now, the information that in Slovenia is waiting for a city in the home for the older citizens of 11,000 people is Community data of social institutions and is real. If we have no beds available, it is also true that the state of new constructions of public houses obviously does not plan, it is also the information that stands. That private companies serve at the expense of the elderly, they do. The Court of Auditors found that the Ministry of Labour allows certain homes to charge their guardians and protectors fictitious costs — that is also a fact. The granting of concessions has proved to be an infertile method that is more damaging to the system than it is saving anything. In the sum of all this, we have proposed an amendment in Levica, which gives an additional 65 million; something in the first year, something in the second financial year. The government obviously does not have a strategy for developing this area, this law on long-term care – once the government promises us, once at the end of the term, once at the end of the year, once in spring and so on. And all that's left for the state at this point is to open the door to companies that serve at the expense of the elderly. That's unacceptable. It is unacceptable that the Government does not have a strategy to address the development strategies of such a pressing problem, which is so clearly conditioned by population ageing, in the 2020 budget, in the 2021 budget. This is an alarming enough data and good enough material for the National Assembly to at least direct the country, if not the other, with an open debate. Therefore, once again, Madam Vice-President, I call on the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the vote on 21 November. However, we continue with the question raised by Mr Aleksander Reberšek, Minister of Health Aleš Šebedr and Minister of Public Administration Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services has announced the implementation of the 5G frequency tender by the end of 2019. In this regard, we would like to draw attention to the international petition to stop the establishment of 5G networks. Many scientists point to the potentially harmful consequences of building a 5th generation wireless network. Under petition, signed scientists point to a serious threat to humans, animals, and all ecosystems on planet Earth. They also state the inevitable forced exposure to wireless radiation. From previous generations, 5G differs mainly by operating at significantly higher frequencies, resulting in a shorter range of transmitters – up to 100 metres. It will take a much more dense set of transmitters to be located on every street lamp. Higher frequencies have been shown to have a greater effect on organisms and also affect the distance from the source of radiation. Exposure to lower radiation loads at a lower distance of the transmitter is more dangerous than the greater power of transmitters that are more remote. Dear Minister, I ask you: What's your position on finding scientists? Did Slovenia give any serious attention to these warnings? Have the competent Slovenian institutions produced any study to either reject or confirm the above-mentioned indications? Will Akos take into account possible impacts on human and animal life and health in the allocation of frequencies for the construction of 5G networks? I sincerely thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, which one of you will begin? Here you go, Mr. Bertonzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Member, thank you for asking. The 5G generation of mobile telephony network is in fact in some initial phase of implementation, as you yourself mentioned. The development and expansion of technology into new frequency bands, so-called millimetre waves, raises a number of questions about radiation loads, health and environmental impacts, space placement and compliance with international standards. Due to numerous warnings about the potential adverse consequences of the 5th generation of mobile telephony, the Department of Health Protection co-organised an international consultation entitled 5G and health on 17 October this year. Over 140 participants from 21 countries attended the seminar, which was intended to present the latest findings in this area. Speakers presented the state of play in the development of new 5G technology, new research on health risks due to exposure to electromagnetic fields in the millimetre area and new methodologies and standardised procedures to assess the conformity of devices and systems to be used both for base stations and for portable devices of the new generation of mobile phones. The seminar also presented the findings of key international organisations in the field of radiation protection, namely the World Health Organisation and the International Radiation Protection Commission. The President of the International Commission on Radiation Protection stressed that the new guidelines, which will be officially published by the end of this year, are based on the current state of science and include research on the impact of the new 5G technology on human beings. The limit values are designed to protect against negative health effects due to exposure to electromagnetic fields and have an integrated safety factor. As long as the limit values of the guidelines are not exceeded, there is no reason to suspect that exposure to 5G could pose a risk to this health. In the course of the seminar, the Head of the Radiation Protection Programme of the World Health Organisation also gave an overview of the scientific studies carried out on the risks associated with the frequency area used by 5G technology. It stressed that knowledge from the studies already carried out can be used in the area of 5G biophysical heating mechanism, which is scientifically well explained, as a basis for the development of the limits set by international guidelines. At higher frequencies, which 5G is supposed to use in the future, a lower intrusion depth into the body tissues and energy absorption becomes limited to the body surface. It notes that, provided that exposure to humans is lower than the thresholds set by international guidelines, public health effects are not expected. The Ministry of Health will follow the recommendations of international professional organisations such as the World Health Organisation, the International Commission for Radiation Protection and the European Union in assessing health risks due to the introduction of the 5G network as so far. As studies carried out and evaluated so far show that exposure below the values set out in those recommendations does not have a negative impact on human health. However, due to the prevalence of mobile telephony and the implementation of new research, there will also be an active monitoring of the latest findings in countries where 5G is actually already implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Schabeder, and accept my apology for your previous mistake. Mr. Rudy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u188	On behalf of the Ministry of Public Administration, I can add some more information. Of course, the introduction of 5G technology in the first place is a major cross-cutting action by the Government, i.e. at least three ministries; in addition to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are strongly involved in this process at the same time – and I would like to stress this – while at the same time very close cooperation with all the experts in the various fields involved and who can shed light on some of the questions that have not yet been answered regarding the harmful consequences of the introduction of this technology. Therefore, as mentioned by the Minister of Health, the Ministry of Public Administration has also participated in the organisation of this international conference with the aim of trying to obtain as much information as possible from experts from all over the world and making decisions on the basis of all this information in the future. We are now, as we say, awaiting the publication of the updated safety guidelines of the International Commission for the Protection against Non-ionising Radiation. This will be published before the end of the year. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'll keep going if there's any chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like to complete your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will not be misunderstood. I advocate digitisation because it brings less red tape, less corruption and more transparency; but what is most important – not health. You need to know that I am facing a considerable number of our citizens who have a number of concerns about the introduction of a new 5G technology due to possible health risks. They warn me that there are studies that expose all these potential risks. They fear that if the 5G network or technology becomes operational, we will be exposed to 10 to 100 times the current, existing radiation for 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In order to increase the density of all these transmitters, which will be at a very short distance practically around our houses, apartments, and opinions are that this 5G network will not replace 3G and 4G wireless technology networks, but will only further increase radiation. I am also warned that there is also convincing evidence for eight different types of injuries occurring at exposure to electromagnetic fields. We're talking about an attack on nervous systems, hormonal systems are disrupting, then attacking the cells of our bodies and thus causing cancer, lower male and female fertility. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What will you do to protect the health of our citizens when introducing new technologies that are of course welcome? We must not forget that health is our greatest wealth and that health is our first priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u192	We will certainly follow all the guidelines, all the guidelines that are and will be available in this regard. While we have a Slovenian regulation based on current recommendations and are precisely setting maximum permitted radiation. In addition, the most sensitive areas, the living environment, schools, kindergartens, hospitals where they are already subject to 10 times the stricter restrictions as set out in the international guidelines and recommendations of the European Union are protected. If you'll excuse me, I may only give you a brief opinion of the head of the radiation protection programme at the World Health Organisation. Among other things, this study has not shown a link between cancers and near base stations. This is the position of the World Health Organization. The classification “may be cancerous for humans” is the lowest of three, so says and reports – this classification – that we see something else, but we are not sure whether this link exists. I'm just saying what the current results of the World Health Organization are in this area. Otherwise, I would say that, given the many warnings that follow every introduction of new technology, we will, in view of many warnings in the introduction of this technology, advocate a conservative approach. So, we're not going to be a guinea pig in Slovenia. It is true, however, that so far a study or research has not been carried out anywhere, since there has been no exposure to this technology. This is also explained by the World Health Organization. Certainly, Akos, who will be responsible for the introduction of this technology, will follow all these guidelines, followed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course in close cooperation with all experts. There's no way we're gonna jump into the unknown. At local levels, Geneva is such an example, for example, of introducing a moratorium on the introduction of 5G technology. However, these are political decisions, which currently cannot be based on some scientific knowledge or research, because these are practical [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Your time's up. Let's keep asking questions. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Reberšek? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much again. As far as the study is concerned, it depends very much on who does this study: either the industry does it or we do have some independent studies. You know well that a healthy person has a thousand wishes, a sick person only has one wish. In this country, we should want to have as many healthy people as possible in order to have as few health problems as possible for our citizens. Health is only our greatest wealth, health should always be first and I think it is important that we discuss this subject in accordance with the rules of procedure at one of the future meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We will also decide on your proposal on Thursday, 21 November, as part of the vote. We're moving on. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, the Secretary-General! In my office, desperate citizens and citizens who are briefly forgotten turn to me every week. I'm talking about a group of people who have become disabled workers in both different and third categories. Many of them have become disabled in the workplace, some have managed to keep their jobs, while others have found themselves in the Employment Service as job seekers — with all possible limitations. Even though we would want to remain physically active, their health does not allow it. These citizens received first a work refund, which was still quite acceptable, but still lower than the poverty risk threshold. At the end of this period of receipt, however, a question arises to many people when they have received a calculation of how much money they will receive, the question of how to live on, as the amounts move between 250 and over 300 euros. Many have paid for more than 20 years in the pension register, but I also have cases that I have faced and paid more than 35 years and their disability allowance is only EUR 280. These citizens and citizens also pay for additional health insurance because they are even more exposed to health care, visit doctors many times and simply cannot live without additional health insurance. In the meantime, we are also talking about those who have cash social assistance, but they do not have this additional health insurance cost, because when they get the right to cash assistance they also have the right to supplementary health insurance, and the money social assistance is a few euros higher than the money they receive. At the same time, they have a number of other benefits, and no one challenges them, but we simply forgot about these most vulnerable groups. To you, Minister, I address the following questions: Can the people I told you about expect an improvement in their financial situation that will be comparable to financial social assistance? What measures does the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs promote employment of disabled persons? What are the opportunities for a disabled person to receive a disability allowance of 250 euros or more? Does the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs consider ensuring that certain groups of people with income below the poverty threshold are covered by additional health insurance, since many cannot pay for it?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. With regard to your question, I would like to explain in the introduction that compensation from disability insurance is part of the pension system and the same as pensions depends on previous pension insurance and the basis on which contributions were paid. Receipts from disability insurance include insured persons who do not have the full capacity to work but have recognised certain restrictions at work. In the case of beneficiaries of disability insurance benefits, they must also be registered at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment as active job seekers. I would like to point out that in 2019 the social situation of beneficiaries of disability benefits was improved by regular harmonisation in accordance with the system law and by extraordinary harmonisation in December. In February 2020, there will be further regular harmonisation by an additional 3.5 per cent, totalling 7.7 per cent. In the event that the disability allowance is not sufficient for survival, a disabled worker may apply for financial social assistance. In this case, a person also has the right to cover the difference between the full value of health services, which means that a disabled person and his spouse do not have to pay supplementary health insurance for the period of recognition. In the event that a disabled person exhibits extraordinary maintenance costs and cannot cover them with his or her own income or family’s income, he or she may apply for exceptional financial social assistance. Let me also mention that the proposal of the new PIZ-2, which is currently in the legislative process, improves the social situation of future pensioners and beneficiaries of disability insurance rights. It should be borne in mind, however, that it is easier for these persons to provide higher social security if they can return to work. The State therefore promotes the employment of unemployed persons with disabilities also through active employment policy measures to eliminate labour market mismatches and reduce barriers to employment, especially for those who are more difficult to employ. Thus, in the first three quarters of 2019, almost 2 000 people with disabilities are included in the various active employment policy programmes, representing 11% of the total. The most unemployed persons were included in public works and teaching workshops, various training and education programmes. Of the total number of unemployed persons registered in 2018, 3 000 100 disabled persons were employed for employment and 2 000 333 disabled persons registered for employment in 2019. Unemployed persons are in the institution and include them in employment rehabilitation within the public network of job rehabilitation providers. Assistance in the employment of unemployed persons in the Employment Service is provided by rehabilitation advisers at the departmental services of the institution. The Employment Office has been working intensively with various disability organisations and associations and labour rehabilitation providers. Promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities in employment is one of the priority areas for reducing social exclusion through disability. In the future, however, our attention will be focused on the integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market as quickly as possible. At the Ministry, we will also continue to prepare for the reconstruction of disability insurance, the aim of which must be adequate social security for all those with reduced working capacity, with a focus on professional rehabilitation. This commitment is also based on the coalition agreement on the cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2018-2022. Through a renewed vocational rehabilitation institute, it will be necessary to ensure that persons with reduced working ability are trained as soon as possible for another job or profession with which they can primarily provide social security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mursich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Minister, for that part of the answer. Indeed, all of the above is absolutely true, but we must not forget that individuals have invested in the pension fund for a long time, but in the end you told me that they can ask for financial social assistance for a difference. I have to say that I have suggested this to them myself, but people feel less valuable that after so many years they have to walk from door to door, plus that the entire income of the family is counted. Many times it happens that some income has been generated all these years or that theirs has a slightly higher income and then they simply do not have that right. These families or these individuals are extremely eager to re-engage, integrate into the labour market, but in a number of cases, at least the ones I have faced as an employer, I have had great problems. I would love to include them in active employment policy programmes, but because of these restrictions that individuals had, there was simply no possibility. Because when I took him into a working relationship — and I was aware of that — there was a sick leave behind, because their health conditions are so difficult that we simply do not know how to imagine them. Sadly, I was fortunate — regrettably or not — to work with them. I would like to help a lot of people, and we also helped them, but when I had him involved in an active employment policy, I didn't have any added value in this programme that I included him in, because the problems were with his hospital absence. Indeed, all these active job-seekers are also, but I think we should consider that these socially disadvantaged groups should have at least this right to supplement [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much for this addition to your opinion. I also see the solution itself in reshaping certain active employment policy programmes, and we are working on this as a matter of priority. We note that some programs are not good, nor do they provide the right way out when you want them. We are evalivating programs and we would really like to strengthen those in the field of disability and long-term unemployment. In fact, we find that these people who are now in the Employment Service are the ones most difficult to employ — those who are disabled, those who are usually under-educated, and those who are older. That's the focus of the future. For all these active employment policy programmes, we will spend as much as 90 million in the coming year, of which 60 million will be European funds. But here we would like, in particular, to renovate active employment policy programmes so that people actually have the right programmes; the programmes they need to empower them so that they can be interesting for employers as well. Also with programs for professional rehabilitation. On the other hand, it will also be necessary to change the thinking of employers – today, in previous times when there was a recession, employers can choose workers; today, of course, the situation is different. Human resources are lacking, but we still find that employers on the call – everyone would have young people with experience. Unfortunately, this cannot be guaranteed, but we certainly see a lot of potential in such persons. This is precisely why we would like to strengthen these programmes so that they can enter the labour market, of course, bereaved. There's no way to find someone a job, as you can see for yourself, and then go to a long-term hospital. This is also the experience of employers and avoid such employment. That is why I think it is very crucial and individual work – what we are currently doing at operational level both at social work centres and at employment institutions, to work individually with each individual to determine what needs to be done, what kind of programme we include it in so that it can be successfully integrated into the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabedr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u204	A good day for all to attend together, especially the ministers who are present here, and of course my Minister Šabeder, whom I ask about the work of doctors in Slovenia. In the first place, however, if I could, I would replicate a little to Mrs Muršič on the previous question to the Minister of Labour. They had their secretary, you could ask her. She was talking about people with disabilities with low incomes. In the law, the opposition proposed, there you opposed, you were against this law, so I don't get it in my head – you ask that and you do it differently. So much for the intro, but no offense. In January 2019, the Ministry sent us a log of working hours for 6,000 403 doctors. The first one on the scale is supposed to have 450 hours – I'm talking about January, I have data. That means he worked 14 and a half hours a day. I mean, hello! I think someone's playing a little fool. Maybe. Usual mortals are tired if we work 40 hours a week. We all know no one, but really no one can do as much as the records show. I hope the Labour Inspectorate is familiar with these records. It's a serious labour violation. Over 2,000 doctors are expected to have more than 200 hours. If that were true, we wouldn't have waiting rows. It seems like doctors are the only ones in this country who really do something. Doctors also often complain that they are overloaded — if they are tired, they should rest, for some would even have a holiday of 60 days. But they're only tired when they're working in the public sector. I'm sure there's no doctor in the private infirmary who'd say he's overworked. By working in private, they place themselves on a lie about overload. I want to know: How many doctors have a working relationship with one public health institution and also has a contract for an additional working relationship? What organisations do they have a contract for an additional working relationship with? We're talking about business contracts. At UKC Ljubljana, from 830 doctors of specialists, 750 consents to work outside the home institution. How many doctors in Slovenia do they agree to work outside the home? What organizations do they work for? It is also apparent that many doctors work in the public sector during working hours. This prolongs waiting periods, while at the same time increasing numbers of people choose to visit the private sector, which is again water to the mill — they, of course! Who supervises doctors during working hours in public institutions? This is not all, but in addition to 300 working hours, doctors are still working at colleges and at institutes, teaching at pharmacists and visiting beautiful islands around the world. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your time has run out, perhaps you would have stayed if you had asked a question at the beginning of your discussion, but not replicated to your colleague, which, of course, is not allowed under the rules of procedure. I now give the floor to the Minister for Response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The monthly work obligation of doctors is regulated by the Labour Law, namely the Medical Service Act, the Health Activity Act and the Labour Relations Act. The basic supervision was carried out by the employer because it is essentially the autonomous competence of the management of the institution. The Public Sector Inspectorate and, indirectly, the Labour Inspectorate, the Ministry of Health, do not keep records of the number of hours doctors carry out monthly. The management of those records shall fall within the competence of the management of the establishments. In all hospitals, it was together on the 31st day. 12. 2018 employed 4 thousand 182 doctors, of which 3 thousand 554 for full-time work, 328 for part-time work and 27 had a supplementary work relationship contract. Physicians employed in a public health institution may, under Article 53b of the Health Act, work with another healthcare professional and carry out this work on the basis of prior written consent issued by the employer. By providing information on how many such doctors the Ministry of Health is not available, but they have individual institutions or individual public health authorities. In accordance with the provisions of the Health Act, a public health institution or other public institution referred to in Article 8, paragraph 6, of the Health Act must keep records of the agreements and contracts issued. The Health Act is before the amendment of the law, that is, before 17. 12. 2017, provided that a health worker may only perform work in another public health institution or in another legal or natural person on the basis of written consent. For public health institutions, the founder of which is the State, the Council of the Public Health Institute, with the prior consent of the Minister of Health, gave consent to the public health institutions whose founder is the municipality and the Council of the Public Health Institute, with the prior consent of the mayor. This meant that the Ministry of Health had only a record for the consent given to hospitals. Since the end of 2017, as I have already said, consent has ceased to be issued by the Minister of Health and the record of such consents has been kept by the Public Health Institute. However, with regard to the stimulation of doctors for work, I would like to explain to you that all public servants are subject to the Public Sector Wage System Act, which sets out in its Article 21 the performances to which public servants may be entitled. In particular: regular work performance, labour performance in terms of increased labour volume and labour performance in terms of sales of goods and services on the market. The work performance of the increased work volume for the work carried out, which exceeds the expected work results for each month, may be paid under the Labour Performance Regulation as a result of the increased work volume for public servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u208	I'll continue where I left off. Thank you very much, Minister, for your information, but you've already told me a little bit in advance about stimulation. I'm just asking if it's true that it's the only way to stimulate workers or doctors with pay. Do they really care about money? In my view, they will not be any less burdened if they have higher salaries and the waiting types will still remain. Health care needs such doctors who also work for a bona fide, it's called a trifle for free. I want to know: Have you ever been in contact with Mr. Alexander Doplihar – you know who this is, the doctor who works for the bono? Did you ask him for advice? Do you have any contact with him? Of course, that's what I'm most interested in. And I'd like to ask you a question. Mr. Minister, you had a meeting with representatives of both medical universities and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. And as far as I can tell, they're asking you to do something impossible. In Maribor, for example, money for a new building, in Ljubljana only money for wages. One resident is already on average €225 000 for the period of schooling. These funds are distributed to professors in medical schools. I have a feeling or I'd say they're digging in money. But these doctors never have enough money, I wonder. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, out loud: Who's blackmailing you? Who are the ones who are doing this blackmail? If I'm right, please give them to me. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. I haven't had personal contact with that doctor who works in the pro bono infirmary, so we don't know each other personally. Of course, I will also be happy to meet him and talk to him. As for the meeting with the management of the medical colleges and the Rector of both universities – there was no Health Insurance Institute at this meeting – there was a talk about the increased enrolment of students both at the University of Maribor and Ljubljana. Of course, the management of both colleges has also expressed some additional needs that they believe will have to be met in order to increase these entries — both one and the other. Of course, among these, if I say so, requirements or needs are also financial or financial increases. Such discussions with both universities are still ongoing, I hope that we will find consensus here, because, as I have already said several times in this place, this is one of the most important measures to ensure a sufficient number of doctors in our healthcare system. As for the costs of the specialists, I can tell you that most of these costs for the specialist are borne by the Ministry of Health, so we estimate that this year these costs will be around 80 million. One part will be financed by the Health Insurance Office this year, I think 20 percent of these costs and 80 percent by the Ministry of Health. Thus, it is to the extent of a considerable cost. However, they are specialists, we must not forget, a very important factor in the health system, especially in the exercise of health care. Thus, they do much of the work in the health system, or they help where we actually have a manna of personnel, that is, a manna of doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u212	Of course I do, and I'd like to get a little more attached. Thank you, Minister, for your information. As I understand from your answers, there's obviously some blackmail going on in this area with regard to these colleges. As far as the beginning of my question is concerned, these are the hours recorded by doctors in Slovenia monthly or whatever, if that were true, what it says, then we wouldn't have any waiting hours at all. That's not how things work around here. This is an interesting topic or the most problematic topic. If we don't fix health care, it'll still be a problem. So I propose that, because the debate is welcome in the National Assembly, I would like to have a wider debate so that we can get more information and that once and for all we can arrange this health care for which we see what it is like. Thank you very much. Of course, under Article 276, I propose a broader debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will decide on your proposal in the framework of the November 21st vote. We're moving on. Mrs Mateja Udovč will ask Justice Minister Andreja Katič and Home Affairs Minister Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, dear Minister! My question concerns the procedure of the municipal editors when determining and dealing with road traffic offences which are of minor importance and for which a warning can be given under certain conditions. The applicable rules provide that a notification of an offence against violators of the vehicle stop and park rules, which could not be made known at the place of the offence, shall be affixed to the vehicle at the appropriate place. The offence notice shall enable the offender to immediately pay the fine or half of the prescribed fine within eight days without the subsequent issue of the order of payment, without paying the costs of the procedure and entering the offence into the record of the offence. The timely payment of the fine to the notice of the offence shall be deemed to have been issued to the payer a payment order for an offence marked on the notice and has become legally binding because the payer has waived the objection and the request for judicial protection. In the event that the fine is not paid within eight days, a normal criminal procedure for issuing a payment order shall be carried out. However, the offence notice is an optional part of the procedure and the offender has no legal consequences. The offence notice is therefore only information to the offender that he committed the offence, which means that the time limit for payment of the fine is not yet running. The period for payment of the fine will begin when the payment order is given to him under the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In the implementation of this notice, however, there are in practice derogations from each department, and I ask you: Can an authorised official of the criminal authority of the municipal registrar, after having been notified of the offence pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 8, of the Law on Offence I, amend it as a warning after he has found at the place of the offence additional facts and circumstances of the offence, on the fact that the offence is of minor importance and that the authorised official considers that, in view of the importance of the act, it has given sufficient warning? What legal nature does the notice of the offence have? Is the notification of an offence already a measure, given that it has no legal effect or possibility of an objection? Why is there no uniform practice in this area? Why can municipal officials in certain areas, after having already been notified of the offence, change the law to a warning immediately, on the spot, and not be able to do so in other areas and thus impose additional burden on all actors in the process? Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! You've already told yourself a lot about the nature of the offence notice. It is true that a written notification of an offence is governed by Article 57, paragraph 8, of the Act on Offences and may be affixed to a vehicle if two conditions are cumulatively met; that is, only if the rules on stopping and parking of vehicles are infringed and the offender cannot be informed of the offence at the scene of the offence. That means there's no violator there. The law thus allows the offender, immediately after receipt of the notification, to settle the half of the fine imposed voluntarily and, in so doing, the prior notification shall be deemed, if he corrects it, to be considered a payment order and as you yourself have said, then not entered into the records of the criminal authority, no costs of the proceedings shall be accounted for and the procedure thus concluded. This institution was initially intended to relieve the criminal authorities when dealing with the most substantial offences. Any non-payment of the fine, as you said, has no legal consequences, in which case, after the expiry of the payment deadline, the infringement proceedings shall continue against the owner or holder of the right to use the vehicle by issuing a payment order under the Offences Act. The notification of the offence referred to in Article 57, paragraph 8, cannot be considered as an offence within the meaning of Article 46 of the Law on Offences; therefore, we also consider that there are no legal obstacles to the competent criminal authority, as it is said, in this case a municipal or municipal official would not, in the event that he has already affixed this notification of the offence at the appropriate place of the vehicle and is located near the vehicle itself and that the actual perpetrator of the offence steps up to it and tells him, say that he had a passenger who suffered a stroke and led him to a doctor, then it is likely that the outcome of this procedure is different, as you say, but I did not go to the store and I was unable to find a free parking lot. Thus, in such a case, if the municipal editor so decides, he may also change the notification of the offence to a warning as a substitute alternative measure to be carried out at the place of initiation of the criminal procedure. Infringement authority, which is outside the scope of the criminal procedure, is satisfied that the person has fulfilled the legal signs of the offence and that the conditions are given for the expression of a warning, as provided for in Article 53 of the Offences Act. At the same time, the offender must present the offence at the same time as a warning. This is a simple, quick resolution of matters, but why are the different practices of criminal authorities, but it would be difficult to comment because there are probably thousands of different procedures or actual situations. In order to have an analysis of what is happening in all municipalities, if we are talking about municipal officials, we do not have it, but as I said, in a particular case, each individual criminal authority can judge if the perpetrator comes, and then, even if the apology is as I mentioned it, it can turn into a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with the provisions of the Law on municipal registrarship, the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for overseeing the legality of the work of the municipal authorities, municipal administrations and municipal registries in the implementation of this law. On the basis of the above, the Ministry shall exercise control over the design and adoption of a municipal security programme. We provide the organisation of the municipal registrar with the competence of the authorised persons to exercise the individual powers of the municipal registries, which fall within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. However, the Law on Municipal Government falls under the original competence of the Ministry of Public Administration. The Ministry of the Interior is not competent to exercise control over the exercise of the powers of the criminal authorities of the municipal authorities, which are empowered by special rules to exercise supervision over the enforcement of individual laws and decisions of the self-government local communities. The Ministry of the Interior is not competent to deliver opinions on the work of municipal officials in the field of criminal law, since the Ministry of Justice is responsible for this, and the Minister has already given you this part of the reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your answers. I am pleased that we have all come to the conclusion that the redundancies have the right to change only into action, but in practice there are situations where superiors prevent this from their editors and make it impossible for their programming system. I would therefore like to ask, as Mr Minister has already answered me, that the Ministry of Public Administration is responsible for this. Is that what you're saying? I understand that the continuation of this question of mine will follow the Minister of Public Administration? Me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u222	I didn't quite get it. We're talking about a situation that happens when the warden stands next to the car, that the ticket, the notice of the offence, he wants to leave, and the offender comes in and says, "I parked wrong for this and this." In this case, the editor, if this is indeed a valid reason, may turn this into a warning, but he still tells the offender, you have parked incorrectly, you have committed an offence under this article or this municipal decree or whatever. But I don't know, I don't know what you said to me afterwards, but I don't know how long it's been since someone changed the system. That's not supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs Natasa Sukič will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm afraid the Minister isn't here right now, but I'm going to ask you a question. Slovenia is estimated to be the first green country in the world and, as such, of course, an extremely desirable green tourist destination. Indeed, according to an integrated assessment, it has managed to meet 96 of the 100 criteria, and this is indeed a great achievement. In order for our tourism to flourish even more, two years ago, under the tactics of a respected minister, who is not here today, the government adopted a sustainable growth strategy aimed at reaching even 4 billion inflows from the export of travel in 2021. As it seems, we are facing a new great privatisation story, because it is behind this strategy – what? The idea that hotels are owned or owned by the State must first be placed under a common roof is that they should be transferred to a special state fund under SDH. In short, it's kind of a management concentration, if I understand. The current value of all hotels in the country is estimated at around €400 million, and we can only imagine the great appetites that will wake up when such a fund is established; it is said to be a great appetite after the fund is managed, but this is only the first step. Dear Minister, I quote your statement. You stated: “The results of the business will be improved in the first place, the results of the business will be improved, and the whole story will be privatized. Nowhere in the world is the country's 70 percent owner. We are not talking about sales, we are talking about privatisation." End of quote. So we're going to invest in hotels first, and we're going to spend again, of course. Not your money, Mr. Secretary, but our common public money will be invested in rebuilding these hotels, so that, of course, those who will manage this fund and then the buyers, the future private owners of these hotels, will take advantage of them. After all the stories about privatisation, I'm actually surprised by that decision. You are currently dealing with the rescue of Adrie Airways, who has also been privatized. So I'm interested in the minister: What's your tourist strategy all about? Do you really think that it is necessary to sell out all the state property that has been heavily wasted by the hard work of previous generations, generations of our grandparents, our parents? Is the country really as bad a owner as it's been propagating all along? Did we really not learn anything from this case, Adrie Airways? How is it that this country has its mouth full on one side? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u226	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member Mrs Natasa Sukić, honourable Member, Members! First, I have to tell you that you were incorrect, but you cut the quote from the front and the back, but I will try to answer your question correctly. Another time. The question or strategy is not my strategy. The strategy is a strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is not nearly bound by the name and surname of one of the ministers. Two years ago, the government adopted the Strategy for the Sustainable Growth of Slovenian Tourism, where we should have set ourselves a number of quantitative and qualitative goals that we want to achieve by 2021. Quantitative targets are linked to the growth of the tourism economy and productivity, with which we would like to create EUR 4 billion inflows from foreign tourism, to increase the number of jobs for tourism and economic activities. The quality objectives are related to strengthening competitiveness, the visibility of Slovenian tourism as a five-star destination, green, active and healthy tourism in international markets. We want to achieve these objectives through a scenario of accelerated sustainable development and accelerated investment in basic tourism infrastructure and improved management of tourist companies in destinations. For the competitiveness and satisfactory productivity of Slovenian tourism, it is important to first ensure the proper and professional management of the hotel portfolio – both owned by the country and privately owned. An important owner of tourist companies and thus tourist capacity is also a Slovenian country, as you know, but ownership and management is dispersed among several state owners or operators. This is one of the key reasons why we want to concentrate this management in one place in people who know it. Thus, the state can directly influence the achievement of the objectives of its tourism strategy with ownership levers, which is the sustainable growth and competitiveness of Slovenian tourism, but such a goal can only be achieved with national ownership levers if, in the first step, state ownership or management is concentrated in one place, as I said. Consolidation of the ownership of state-owned tourism companies is therefore very important and, on the other hand, this is the first step leading to the achievement of the shared objectives of sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism. By consolidating ownership, we want to achieve a number of objectives, which lead to deliberate privatisation. In Slovenia, 70% of tourist accommodation capacity or hotels are owned by the country. The country cannot be the long-term owner of tourist companies or hotels, as this is contrary to the market economy for which we have identified ourselves. But also state-owned companies have proven to be good, one of them I have led and is still among the best in the country today. We must therefore approach privatisation in a strategic way and first increase the value of tourism capacity. This will be done by optimizing their management, reducing costs and improving business results. It would be extremely irresponsible to sell Slovenian hotels too quickly, too cheap or too bad for the owner, whose sole purpose would be speculative nature. The restructuring of state-owned tourist companies and possible later privatisation will be carried out responsibly and in the interests of the country in the first place, businesses and employees and for the benefit of Slovenian tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go. Another microphone, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u228	I'm sorry. Dear Minister, look. We have seen quite a few stories about privatisation and yet you declare “the privatisation must be approached strategically, rationally, slowly, thoughtfully” just because we have accepted the market economy. But we're not necessarily committed to selling everything we have. I seriously ask why something that is really one of the paradoxical disciplines in our country – I mean, we ourselves see that Slovenia is the first green country in the world, has an immense potential: Why would they be forced to sell in any way? That's one thing I'm interested in. Secondly, I noticed somewhere that you said that in Slovenia there is room for two to three large players or large tourist companies. So it's essentially going to be a kind of monopoly between two, tops three, this story is going to happen here. So you're going to be selling these immeasurable capacities that we already have in some kind of package or package. I want to know: How do you comment on that? Because that actually leads to monopolies. I don't understand why, then, OK, we would concentrate under one roof all together in order to manage it in a targeted manner, but because the country can also manage it successfully. [[…]] You yourself said that you were such a case that you ran a state-owned company that was successful. I don't understand why this has to be a private matter, so please explain this to me. Also explain the difference between privatisation and sales because you said "I am not talking about sales, but about privatisation". I want to know: What's the difference in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u230	It's hard to comment if you just take two or three players from my quotes. If we heard about what I was saying, we'd hear that there are big, medium and small players in tourism. I have expressed the need to have two to three large inside, but today we have 5 or 6 disabled people who are unable to do anything in Slovenia or abroad. What we want to do is we want 10 different state entities not to be able to manage with 70% of the Slovenian tourist hotel portfolio. We want to concentrate – again and again – the management of this at first stage under the state fund. We're not talking about any privatisation! When we talk about investments, we are talking about the fact that these companies have to invest in themselves, not to exhaust themselves, what is now the case. I would expect you, as a Member, to support me in this effort to give this enormous potential to the country something. Once we've done all this, there's room for thoughtful privatisation. The deliberate privatisation, however, means, once again, privatisation for the benefit of the company being sold, for the benefit of the country and for the benefit of tourism, not for the benefit of those who sell. Today there is a fight around this tourism strategy in this area, whether this strong potential that you mentioned in the first place will go to the benefit of someone who does it, or whether the country will have something of it. Please look forward to this tourism strategy once again together, and you will see that it is sustainable, environmental and responsible for the country. But I've never been in favor of privatisation at all costs. It's about selling or privatizing. We can analyze one word and another, the fact is that we have problems managing such a large state-owned government portfolio because it is scattered. And we have not come to the first step in which we want the country to manage it responsibly, and we will find it difficult when there are many who would like to prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sukič, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Of course, I have a procedural proposal, because the Minister himself has somehow said that it would be good to discuss this further. I think that this is such a very important matter if we are talking about possible once privatisation, after first concentrating in SDH, but then slowly, gradually, privatising, but it is a matter of such importance as tourism and industry, for one of our paradoxical disciplines, that I think there is still a need for debate to understand, in fact, Members and Members, all in a row, all 90, what this means for our future. After all, we are all responsible here for these decisions. Given that we have already burned or walked on very thin ice several times since we privatized certain strategic companies, I think it is extremely important for a strategic industry such as tourism to talk about this as much as possible and then to see where we are going in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal on Thursday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Vojko Starovic will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, who is absent, so I ask the Member to make another statement as to whether you want a written or oral reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u234	I'd like an oral response. My question, however, concerns the Minister of Finance, is about some unacceptable practice that appears in our media space. Recently, we have been able to track several articles and contributions that talk about companies paying support on the one hand, as well as security in the form of purchasing advertising space, regular monthly flats, writing about them well or not attacking them. Since there are several companies on the list of these companies that we can track, including several companies in which the state has its assets, even the largest part or even 100 % of the stakes in individual companies, I think that where the country has its own, it should be particularly careful that this unacceptable practice does not occur, because for the functioning of society and democracy, it is important to inform the public objectively. On the basis of this information, the public shall draw up its views, opinions and preferences, but if the media are affected by this payment, this information shall be necessarily distorted and the picture of reality distorted. The problem arises because most people believe that this media structure, which is done in this way, corresponds to the actual state of affairs. When the news is presented by the media, people simply accept it as real because of this display — it was written in the newspaper because it was on television. We can also listen to these statements in Parliament quite often. That is why I say that because of this display and because people are taking things like that, the media certainly play a key role in the construction that is shaped in people's heads about reality. So my question in this direction is: Have they detected this phenomenon where the state has its resources? Because the state must take care of the functioning of democracy and objective information. What has the Ministry done or intends to do in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer your question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. Mr Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister of Infrastructure in the role of Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion to Master’s degree Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! To the Minister for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion, I refer the issue of the financial framework for the future financial perspective for the period from 2021 to 2027. The current financial perspective 2014-2020 is completed in the year, which is the end of next year at the end of 2020 and the new seven-year framework starts on 1 January 2021. So in this last year, we should focus on or prepare for projects ahead, and we have mainly heard about catastrophic planning and catastrophic use of resources from an existing or emerging financial perspective. This department is headed by the Party Alenka Bratušek within the mandate of the Charles Government. In a year, as we know, two ministers who were responsible for this area have resigned, Mr Bandelli and Mr Purič. For two months now, almost two months, this area has been run by its infrastructure president, Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Alenka Bratušek. So today, if not yesterday, we should have some analysis; an analysis of the weaknesses that governments have undertaken in 2014 to date and are prepared on this basis for a better and, above all, a more cost-effective use of European funds in the future, especially in order to increase the added value of these funds for people. During the year, due to the poor use of European funds, many written and oral questions were raised practically from all the parliamentary groups, we had a special session of Parliament on this subject, and after a year we can see that the situation is not significantly better than it was a year ago. Statistics are not in favour of this government; we are the sixth worst in the European Union. Today, in response to the question, the Prime Minister of the Government said that up to now we have EUR 848 million of the three billion available. So we can see that Cerari's and the current recycled government have been able to carry out poor 150 million projects a year in six years, and now they are expected to carry out two billion projects in one year. So it's no wonder no one wants to take over this hot ministerial chair, because the responsibility for the fiasco is fast coming, but more than the past we must be interested in the future at this point. That's why I'm interested, Madam Secretary-General: What have you done in the last two months and what else will you do as Minister to make Slovenia better prepared for the next financial perspective? Does the financial framework remain at a level of 3 billion 58 million, measured at constant prices? In view of the financial perspective 2014-2020, how much does the Western region lose and how much does the Eastern region gain from the current situation? For what specific projects will these funds be earmarked in the financial perspective by 2027?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you very much. First, let me say that by the end of the drawdown period it is not only one year, but at least by the end of 2023. I agree with you that the figures on the realisation of drawing could be that I don't have to say they should be better. This is certainly not a problem for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy, but it is the ministries that do not carry out the projects. That is why our proposal was to invite all ministries of concern, all ministers or ministers, who would be able to explain what and why, according to the content, to the committee dealing with all of this. Of course, I can only explain to you one part, that's the first thing. Another thing about the financial framework for a new financial perspective. Negotiations on the so-called VFO, this is the multiannual financial framework, for the period 2021-2027, are under the competence of the Cabinet of the President of the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is a working group, which is also further discussed, negotiated by the State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. What will happen to the figures on how big the envelope will belong to our country? At this point, it is difficult to talk about it because you know very well that there are several factors at the level of the European Union: one is certainly unfinished, one way or another, brexit, a new parliament, a new commission – they have somehow stalled these negotiations. We would also expect that, given the time constraints, since the year 2021 will relatively soon be 2021, they will be accelerated as soon as the new Commission is given a mandate, these negotiations, talks, whatever we call it, will continue and come to an end as soon as possible. For the time being, according to the latest information provided by the European Commission, the situation for Slovenia is in fact the same as it is. It is true, however, that it would be in our hands if this financial perspective were adopted this year and negotiations did not take into account the new, additional year, economic growth in 2017, because we know that our country was then recording high economic growth compared to other European Union countries and, of course, the situation in our country is improving accordingly. But as a matter of fact, I don't want to prejudge. On the table, we have nothing but what we received a while ago; it is said that we are still moving around the number of 3 billion. That's as much as we had at our disposal or we have available in this financial perspective and everything else after something new is known. As far as improvements are concerned, I absolutely agree with you that certain things need to be simplified, you may want to look at what we are doing in this financial perspective, and I would not need to continue to remind you of that. We are also preparing a document that will be the basis, then on the other hand, for drawing on European funds. This is a so-called investment priority document for our country. Here are the differences, if I'm talking about the wishes of the ministries, much bigger than what we're going to have at our disposal. There is still a lot of work ahead to tell us what we will be able to draw from European money, what we will do. It is important to know, however, that the European Union and the European Commission are increasingly focused on achieving the objectives that we are setting ourselves, together with the European Union, the evaluation of these projects, whether they are achieving those objectives or not. And it will probably be the same in the next financial perspective, but it is really impossible to talk about specific numbers for the new financial perspective at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u240	Dear Minister, that's what I'm asking you. Do we even know what we want to do with these funds? That's what I'm asking you, and I didn't get that answer today. What you have said comes from the answers to a number of parliamentary questions, written and oral questions that have been raised in the last year. We also know about rule n+3, which is supposed to save us from the catastrophic drawdown of the current perspective, but by the end of the year, the stories must be closed. Then these funds can be used for another three years, which does not mean that the absorption capacity is much better than that of the European Court of Auditors, Mr Jereb. But if we ourselves do not know what we want, then it will be very difficult for the European Commission to tell us what to do with these resources. Above all, it will not tell us how to make better, more useful and more optimal use of them. Yet again, I would like to hear the answers to my question: What have you done in the last two months in this area? What review was made, what analysis of the situation that would answer the question of what we should not repeat in the next perspective, so that we will not see again what we saw in the perspective 2007-2013 and, above all, in the perspective of 2014-2020? What are those procedures that will ensure that we can begin to draw on these funds normally and that we will actually draw them from 1. 1. 2021 further? What does this mean, as you yourself said, that 2017 will also be included in this statistical review on development? How much will the Western region lose, approximately, as a percentage, how much Eastern will it gain? Will it be or won't it? What specific areas will these funds be allocated to? We know that Europe has five key objectives, and at least two of them could do a lot with these means, namely, with regard to smarter Europe, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting renewable energy sources, where I see, above all, incentives for water, hydropower and so on, access to health services. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u242	Mr. Chernač, because I have been in politics for so long that I understand that you have your job, I have my job here. It's hard for us to tell what we're going to do with this asset if we don't even have an agreement on how many we're going to have. And the fact that 2017 will be included is not yet agreed. I told you what's on the table right now, what can happen. But what will actually happen, and we will figure it out together. But we all want and we are all happy, proud that Slovenia is growing, that we have one of the higher economic growth. The numbers we have on the table are facts. But I don't even have the right to prejudge what happens when it does. So far, I have said that all we have on the table are the numbers that have already been given on the table in 2018; this is a financial framework around in the framework of this financial perspective. If you ask me, it would be possible to simplify the process a lot, even if we are looking at this financial perspective ahead, but not even European rules have been written yet, but you would want me to tell you how Slovenian rules will be written on the basis of European rules. All countries will have a very similar problem, not just Slovenia, with regard to the new financial perspective. I don't have anything special to add here. As I told you, negotiations on a new financial perspective are the responsibility of the Cabinet of the President of the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think our job has only one member in this task force. What did we do this month and a half? After all, this has also increased the use of European funds, and this has been one of the steps. Not for two months, from October 7th to today is a month and ten days. But when you talk about drawing on European funds, I propose, and I will ask you again and again to ask the ministers and ministers why certain projects do not have funds. The SVRK is the last in the chain that makes the hook; and it cannot do so if the contract is not signed if the project is not executed if the project is not paid. Only then comes the turn of the job you're asking me about right now. However, pumping is better and higher than it was a month and ten days ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u244	As you can see, dear colleagues and colleagues, there are no answers. Ms Alenka Bratušek is also Vice-President of the Government, so you cannot assume this responsibility at the government level. You are also Vice-President of the Government, president of one of the coalition parties participating in this government. The fact that you are not responsible for this area as the current minister of this service is not true. The financial framework is known, we know that 3 billion plus, minus a few percent of this financial framework will be. That's not a stranger. On the other hand, we know that we have been very weak in drawing on European funds in this perspective. I mentioned earlier Mr Sam Jereb, a member of the European Court of Auditors, who said that at the end of 2018 the drawdown rate was 24.2 %. This was the fifth year of implementation. If you compare this with the previous perspective, which we found to have been catastrophic and was solved by the other Janšev government in 2012, this rate was in 2011, the fifth year of implementation, 37%. So much better was the previous financial perspective, for which we last year made extraordinary efforts before the end so that the funds could be exhausted. And another advantage was then, which is not now. At that time, we had a number of major projects where we could direct these funds. After you took over the government in 2013, you changed the good financial framework negotiated by the other Janšev government on 8 February 2013 in such a way that more emphasis was placed on more projects, soft content and so on. Today, the President of the Government, in response to the parliamentary question, said 4 000 624 projects were under way. 4 thousand 624 projects for 850 million, that's about 150 thousand per project. Do you know what fragmentation this is and what a problem it is to ensure proper use of this financial perspective of the remaining two billion funds? Even if we distribute these 2 billion by the end of 2023, we say that in the next four years at least EUR 500 million will have to be absorbed annually. So far, there are between €100 million and €150 million per year. This represents on the one hand a huge problem for us and represents an obstacle to the effective preparation of projects forward, which we should be talking about today and in the coming months, and we should be prepared to do so, but we are not. Given the absence of any vision, the absence of any perspective, how and how the next financial perspective will be implemented, it is essential that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly discuss this issue at its next meeting, because I think that in the absence of a minister covering this area, this problem is even greater. This Parliament must take on a role that is obviously not being played by the Sharčev government at the moment, and must say what and what areas of the five target priorities that the European Union has set itself for the next perspective, to focus our energy and, above all, the resources to be used optimally for the benefit of people and to ensure that their added value is as high as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, I ask you: What is your opinion on the Energy Agency’s envisaged action to double the monthly costs for solar power plants? Such a measure is provided for in the amendment to the Act on the methodology for determining the regulatory framework and methodology for calculating the network for electric operators. According to the proposal, household consumers who are self-sustaining electricity are expected to increase their accounting power by twice the power of the self-sustainment device; and, in the case of community self-sustainment, double the power of the self-sustainment device belonging to the final customer, according to the key of division of production. Does such a measure seem appropriate or fair to you as a competent minister and, as such, is it designed to achieve the objectives set for the share of renewable energy sources? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Your Honour, you yourself have said that I am not responsible for this act as Minister, but is a competent independent agency. We are having a hard time interfering with the work of an independent, independent agency. I can say I don't agree with that alone. But I can tell you that we're 14. 11. The Energy Agency sent a letter. The whole letter is a little longer, so I will read only one sentence to you: “When we review the proposal for an act and the comments received, we have decided to maintain the regime we have put into effect by implementing the network act for a period of the current regulatory period.” I would say that this proposal has temporarily left the table, but the Agency still believes that those who supply solar energy themselves are burdening the system in some way and should therefore contribute something. As a matter of fact, as Minister, I do not agree with this proposal. I have no particular influence that I could do this differently, but the Agency has now put the proposal off the table, short-circuited, no increase in this network.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have to say, I'm happy. I didn't say anywhere that you were the one who could, but how do you think the Energy Agency would do that? You can still tell me: Until when, when will there be no change? I think that's where it says something. I already understand that if solar power plants are included in the electricity system, that this is causing operators some problems and also costs because this issue needs to be adjusted; but the state cannot now punish those who are solving renewable energy sources. To achieve these international goals, international obligations, we will now punish them. We or the Energy Agency need to find a different way of getting these funds to adjust the system. Those who solve this matter in Slovenia would now get their heads kicked. This happens repeatedly in our country, I think it's unacceptable. I'm glad you said you didn't support it. We might just answer what time it is now; then I will follow on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u252	I've given my opinion. Once again, that's within their purview. We could do so regardless of all the comments we have. However, I agree that if this were to be done, then also supporting these solar power plants for self-sustainment somehow makes no sense. I don't have accurate information here, I can assure you that it won't happen for at least a year. Then we'll see what the agency is up to during this period. Once again, I stress that they are independent, they could and could do so irrespective of the opinion of the Minister or the Minister. Of course, we are trying, even when legislation is being adopted, to say what was the aim of this legislation. I believe we will find a common language in the future for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will also ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u254	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Honourable Minister, Double Minister and Vice-President of the Government! My next question is, in fact, part of my initiative, which I have already expressed in two mandates in the National Assembly. It is a faster railway connection on the Maribor-Ljubljana route. As you know, colleagues who daily, at least some, drive by trains to Ljubljana, that the route is in fact still a route of the southern railways. It is just 170 years since the train arrived in Ljubljana on 18 August 1849, and then the famous Franz Joseph I got off the train. I ask the Minister, also as Minister for Development and Cohesion: Are there any intentions to become part of this railway connection? We have a highway where we could set up a railway, we have three ICS trains that reach speeds of over 250 kilometres per hour, we have a test, the speed of the train even more than 207 kilometers per hour, where Slovenian railways tested the relation of Prague–Maribor. What keeps us from putting us on the Slovenian highway link? You were alone in China, as I've seen. You drove 350 kilometers an hour. Slovenia does not need these super-fast railways, we could connect with the current trains, say Maribor with Celje, then Celje, perhaps with the suburb of Ljubljana, where we would collect this large hinterland Domžal, Kamnik and everything else; and this journey would take about 45 minutes. For example, the price of fast lines in Germany ranges from €15 million to €25 million per kilometre. I believe and suppose that along the Slovenian highway, where we have spatial planning, where we have leased land, this price should not exceed around €17.18 million per kilometre. The highway distance between Maribor and Ljubljana is about 120 kilometers away, the railway has a 155 km distance due to an outdated track, which once predicted increased water consumption due to steam locomotives and went to the Litija–Zidani bridge-Litija route and then returned to Ljubljana. So I'm asking you: Do you have any intention of launching a new ambitious project in Slovenia as well, to establish a relatively fast railway connection at least on the relationship of the two largest cities in Slovenia? Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. With much of what I agree with, I certainly do not agree with one thing, and this is that Celje is the suburb of Ljubljana. It's gonna take a while to do that. That's the first thing. Second thing, you've probably heard me talk about this, about my idea that not only Slovenia, but Europe needs a fast railway. In my opinion, building only 70 or 150 kilometers of fast rail is too little, too expensive. European capitals should be linked to fast rail. I have already said in this National Assembly, if the Chinese can, why not Europeans. Even in this national assembly, some of them – and I will not say now if they were from your parliamentary group, because I forgot – admitted to dreaming when I was talking about the fast railway in our country. I agree that this initiative is being studied, but in a somewhat broader context, I have mentioned the connection between Venice-Ljubljana-Dunaj. That is why, at the end of September, I appointed a working group to prepare a proposal for a long-term vision for the development and modernisation of rail infrastructure, which will also address this link Ljubljana-Maribor and the proposed measures within the limits of the allocated powers. I would like to make it clear, however, that the relationship of Maribor-Ljubljana has been mentioned, that the existing route will be finally restored in the following year and that we will be able to arrive in an hour and a half with a new train from Maribor to Ljubljana or Ljubljana to Maribor. That's quite comparable to driving on the road. The railway infrastructure has been abandoned for many years. The so-called TNT network has been a high priority in recent years. Of course, regional lines are also coming. They have to come. In the following year, the Ljubljana-Kočevje route will be re-established after a long period of 50 years. New trains, new rolling stock will be driving along these tracks. We cannot say that nothing is happening; but I fully agree with you that we must make an ambitious plan. This is not a plan from today to tomorrow, but it is also a plan for a decade or more, where Europeans would also be able to provide our citizens and citizens with a quick link.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, you want a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u258	In recent years, if I look at it, you've been in governments, you've been a minister, we've even had a European Commissioner for Transport. All our neighbouring countries have opted at the moment for their large infrastructure projects, they have been paid out, up to 80% with European funds. The European record at train speed is still TGV, achieved without a magnetic cushion even 575 kilometres per hour, currently record in Japan on a magnetic cushion about 580, 581 kilometers per hour. Since Slovenia is relatively small and is short-distance, it does not need such speed. I'm talking about mid-speed trains. Celje is not the suburb of Ljubljana, of course, you misunderstood me. I was talking about those suburbs around Domžal and Kamnik. To have 2, 3 or more stations at speeds of about 190 to 210 kilometers per hour, of course, it does not count, it is a matter of great mobility and all other matters. I'm still taking the initiative. When I look at how much money you are drawing, how much your discussions, how many performances there are in Brussels, I have not seen one major performance, an initiative at the European level to trigger it. Of course, there is also a need to have some political bias in Brussels, to have a few partners to support it. Slovenia is starting to do this, the works of the Austrian Railway, the works of the Hungarian Railway, not to talk about Switzerland, well, it is not part of the European Union, although in Europe Switzerland is building a daily kilometre line. Look, 127 thousand people come every day by train to Ljubljana, what to say, I am happy to take part in the initiative, but we want to make concrete and that we plan relatively quickly because it is a route along the highway. The route could be planned along the highway, it could be relatively cheap, and without great philosophies we could do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u260	Although there was no question what to say, I can agree with you. The past can't be erased. Things that haven't been done in the past can't be done. In this year, when I am Minister, we have moved a number of things in the field of railways, not to mention the biggest project, that is Divaca-Koper. I hope that any party in this national assembly will not also fall into the water because of this railway project. It is necessary to plan, railway projects are long-term, and the fact is they are also expensive. That's a fact. And the Presidency of Slovenia is also an opportunity to put the fast European railway on the table and talk about it. I believe that the working group set up for this will do its job in due course, and I will also be able to come to the National Assembly with information on how experts – because there are quite a few experts in this working group – see the possibility of developing Slovenian railway infrastructure. But after many years of neglect, it has to be said that in the last three or four years, the reconstruction of rail infrastructure has taken place. I will not say that I do not know how fast, great dynamics, but it has run; and this is also the reason that you will be able to arrive in an hour and a half in the following year from Maribor to Ljubljana. It's not possible to do that with a car every day. And I want as many people as possible to use railways, because this reduces traffic on roads, reduces congestion and eventually reduces emissions to the air, and so we have a beneficial impact on climate change.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Breznik, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u262	Thank you for some answers. I think that this is really a topic that we could discuss in public and that you will also support this with your colleagues. I think it's a positive theme. As for the second track, some evidence, who's to blame, we're in the opposition, you have, at least so far you've had the majority, I'm also a member of the work of solutions presented by Prof. Dr. Priestnik. These are top engineering solutions, where this second track would also raise, also change the electrical power supply of trains from a single voltage of 3,000 volts to a variable voltage of 25,000 volts, allowing greater power, greater energy storage, greater recovery of this train on this part. In Slovenia, the problem is that Slovenian technical intelligence is always somehow hidden or outside of decision making. But what is important and I cannot agree with the Minister is the following. Before, I talked about prices of super-fast railways in Germany or in our neighbourhood, which cost up to EUR 25 million. I'm talking about trains that can reach 300, 350 kilometers per hour. So it is a special regime of work, security and everything, super fast automation, electronics and so on; in Slovenia it costs a second track so far, after current calculations without annexes almost 45 million euros per kilometre. Now you can imagine what is happening in Slovenia. And I ask, a kilometer of super fast rail costs 25 million maximum, even in Germany, depending on the relationship and complexity of the terrain, from 15 to 25; in Slovenia it costs the second track 45 million euros. This is the difference between Slovenian reality and abroad and the competition of construction companies and everything else. Fellows, I think you will support my initiative, I have expressed it several times before; and to have a thorough discussion whether we want this type of railway; or, after 170 years – 18 August 1849, the train with France Joseph brought it to Ljubljana, the Styers we got even a few years earlier – to lay some new foundations for ambitious green Slovenia, where railways could get some primate in this green breakthrough and also in green traffic. I think that this is an important topic and that, when the vote on this question in the House and my initiative for public debate, you will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Mr Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Today there have been quite a few questions on the subject of caring for the elderly, building a home for the elderly, and so on. I myself have a question on this subject, because it seems to me that the subject is still very important. And since we have been neglecting this area over the years and the problem is becoming more and more pressing, in the entire country 11,000 waiting and so on, I will focus on building a home, one example of a bad practice that I hope will never happen again in Slovenia. That the ministry or the minister would look at these things a little differently than has been seen so far. In the municipality of Lithium, we went through the municipal budget to build houses for older citizens. It was a large social security centre, an intergenerational centre where it is home for older citizens with 92 beds, 17 protected apartments and also a work centre. All this could be taken care of by the state. Since there is no such demand in the congregation, we have taken care of it from the local municipal budget, which we know to be about 11, 12 million. And this complex has stood strong over 12 million. We then asked the State for help, and it must be said that the state did not find a hearing for it. We had hoped for €7 million in aid, and this aid was not from anywhere. They even caused problems at the Ministry by demanding construction conditions and what everything must be. Later, the House of Tisje, which was a state-owned public institution, was complicated and did not want to move into this home or move in. I want to know: Will the state help municipalities to undertake such projects themselves in the future? First of all, I want to know: Does the state even support such a project as we had in Lithuania that we built our own home for the elderly and the work centre? Since Members from all political parties have recently been constantly reminding us that this problem must be taken seriously, is it institutional protection for older citizens, can we hope for any assistance from the State in return? For example, if you buy out this facility or part of it, because 7 million euros for such a budget is a large number. Thanks for the answer. However, I will continue to ask detailed questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Madam Minister Mag. Xenia Klampfer, it's yours for the first five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Chairman, and thank you very much for this question. I have already answered three of the same parliamentary questions today, how we will solve the problems of institutional protection. Maybe I'll do it one more time in the first place. We'll do it in different ways. One of these is also absolutely what we are currently prioritising and speeding up in the new operational programme in order to provide European funds for building infrastructure, that is to say for building homes for the elderly, we will try with the public-private partnership. The municipalities are turning to us, even in a way that helps with the provision of municipally equipped land. We'll look for all possible solutions. By providing additional funds for investments in the budget, as it is said, we are spending 5 million this year and 5 million euros next year. In the past years, there were no investment funds, in 2016 only 345 000, in 2017 nothing; and there were a lot of investment needs. This will be very difficult to catch up on in a short time, but it would be a focus on European funds. With regard to the question of whether the Ministry will be able to pay back, I can honestly say here that at present we will try to ensure every euro for the acquisition of new capacities, because at present we would need at least a thousand new beds. In Slovenia, the waiting line is longer every month and these are the main challenges we will face in the future. However, if I respond to your specific case, which you are exposing in Lithuania, I have information that the management of the institution and the mayor have already met with our people at the Ministry. They're looking for solutions. They're on table three right now. Which will be the right one, at this point it is difficult to ensure, but I am sure that she will try to find the right way, because it is in everyone's interest to see things resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u268	Yeah, sure. Thank you, Minister, for those answers. Of course, I wanted even more specific answers, or a little more hope. Since you're saying there wasn't any money at the time, we've dealt with this problem on our own. What is at stake is the poor conduct of the State in this area, that at that time the congregation has embarked on such a bold plan as the congregation of Lithium, and for that it has given us so much resources that we have not been sorry for, of course, because we know what we have given for resources, I think we should not forget now that period now, as if it had not been there to wipe it out, but we have saved ourselves at that time. Obviously, after these daily pressures, the country will only now take this problem a little more seriously. And I don't think it's going to go back that way. I'd like to ask you one more time: Does the state support or can you say that the country is pleased that we went to this project alone? As far as rent is concerned, we also subsidise rents, we also pay subsidies to our protectors, and in this area something will surely have to be done. Our municipal budget is not so high that we can afford, borrow, and pay such high interest. And I'm once again interested in your view of this: Will you help to solve this problem, these difficulties, and even discuss it? You're saying that the mayors are already talking to the Ministry, that we're going to come up with some smart solution, that all this burden will not be borne by the municipality alone, because it's primarily in the country's domain. I ask you very nicely here for your opinion and also for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u269	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u270	Thank you very much for complementing the question. Surely it is highly commendable that the congregation has come to the country generously to help with the construction of such a center as in Lithuania. I don't close my eyes to the problem, I'm familiar with it, and, as I said, I know that the talks at the Ministry are already going on. There are three solutions on the table. I hope that one of them will be able to come to fruition, which is a difficult place to talk about already concrete commitments, but we will certainly try, which is in our power to approach this particular project, and above all, that in the future there will be no such problems in the municipalities, even smaller ones with smaller budgets. Surely this is one practice that has taught us something, so we will seek solutions with greater consideration or in other ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u271	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Nevertheless, I see it as a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u272	Thank you, Minister, even for these hopes of valuable words, and also for having finally received from the State for the first time a commendation, a thank you or a good word for being a local community, i.e. all taxpayers, that we have ourselves taken action to address the institutional protection problem. We in Lithuania currently have more than 50 waiting ones, this home of the elderly is completely full, to the last bed, and also the demand around Lithuania, against Ljubljana, against Styria is huge. I think it's a problem that really needs a broader debate. Also to my question and to the answer of the Minister, who is somehow full of hope that things will somehow be resolved in a positive direction or that the State will only take some measures with regard to the House of Tisia, which is a state-owned public institution, positively approach the solution to this current situation when the municipality subsidises the rent. And since this case is, of course, an excellent example of good practice for the elderly and, at the same time, a case of very bad practice for the country, I really expect to open a broader debate and actually prevent that from happening in the future. However, because this issue of long-term care is so acute and because there were also many questions sent today on this subject, which we are all aware of; and everyone, at a great, exaggeration speed, at a higher speed than the trees train from Maribor to Ljubljana, is working against that border, against that age, when we are alone at that time, would really suggest that we have a broader discussion and perhaps through discussion and with the help of questions and answers, we only get some answers and those right solutions that would also help the country to continue with the long-term care of the elderly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate at the next meeting on this issue and the Minister's response and ask for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u273	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Mrs Violeta Tomić and you have a question for two ministers, for Foreign Minister Mir Cerar and Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenko Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you very much for the floor, distinguished President of the National Assembly. Minister, Minister and colleagues. In the Decree on the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia, the third transport axis is defined as a road link which connects to the highway near Celje from Austria via Slovenia through Slovenia and Velenje and then continues towards the New City and towards Karlovac or the link to the highway Zagreb-Reka. This investment is included in the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030. The plan for the southern part of the third development axis is presented by the State Spatial Plan (DPN) Regulation for the State Road from the A2 Ljubljana–Brežje motorway to the New Town until the accession of Malina, which was adopted on 21 December 2012 and the State Spatial Plan for the State Road from the accession of Malina to the international border crossing of Metlik and to the accession of Montenegro to the South, which was adopted on 7 December 2017. Since then, since 2017, we have been waiting for a starting point between Slovenia and Croatia at the international border crossing of Metlik, which is why the DN also ends some ten meters ahead of the border. It is also necessary to establish a point of entry between Slovenia and Croatia at the international border crossing of Vinica, for which the VAT has not yet been produced. The identification of this point of contact between Slovenia and Croatia is crucial for the inhabitants of Dolenjska and White Krajina, since this means that the third development axis of the south is part of the international connection because it connects to Croatia, namely the Zagreb-Rika motorway and the Zagreb-Split motorway, and Bosnia-Herzegovina, this is the Unsko-San canton. In our view, however, it is possible to co-finance the construction of this road with European funding. And in this regard, I ask the Foreign Minister: Since we got the cutting wire first in the White Landscape during your government's time as the only investment, and now the panel fence, I'm wondering why you and your Croatian colleagues have not yet established the actual points of these two highways? The people of the White Country are also interested in: Is there any reason for this in Croatia's failure to comply with the arbitral judgment? However, I must remind you that you are doing nothing to harm this Croat because they have a very good highway connection; this harms exclusively the people of the South-East region who have already been neglected in all areas. A new secure road connection with the rest of Slovenia would allow young people to stay and start developing the White Land. But later, I'll continue for the secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u275	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Minister, Minister, you have a total of 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u276	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Member! Let me explain to you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I am presenting here, does not lay down the points of reference of infrastructure facilities, but only participates in the determination process, which is part of the definition of the entire facility at the border, which is the responsibility of the project operator. Here we play an auxiliary role, and about the main role will be spoken by our colleague, Minister Bratušek. In the areas mentioned above, there are no differences regarding the duration of the borders to be decided by arbitration, and therefore we do not expect any major complications in determining the point of origin. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will participate in these procedures within its competence when they are in the necessary stage. We'll work together with the department. Of course, we want each other to have these roads built as soon as possible. The decision to set protective and technical barriers is a reflection of the situation in the area of illegal migration, as you know, which Slovenia, as a responsible member of the Schengen area, is monitoring and preventing for the benefit of the entire European Union, in accordance with the principles of the protection of the external border of the Schengen area. Proposals for the establishment of these protective and technical barriers are made by the police and the Ministry of the Interior, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is only involved in determining the route of deployment in areas with a complicated or otherwise sensitive flow of the state border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u277	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u278	Although I have not received a question orally, I believe that the Member will not object to the fact that I am trying to answer what we have received in writing and then to complete it. As already said by colleague Cerar, the point of third development axis in the south has not yet been set and talks are under way with neighbouring Croatia. And I can say that we will certainly be planning such a transport link that will serve people, the transport needs of this area and also cross-border connections. I am talking about the third development axis in general on each of the questions sent, and I am going to do so today, and your colleague is also asking me questions. I can reiterate that the third development axis is certainly an absolute priority, a large infrastructure project. There is also a guarantee law on the table that will identify or provide cheaper sources of funding for this part of the southern part of the third development axis. Of course, this project is not cheap, it's the first thing. But if I focus on the third development axis of the south that you ask me about, I can say that the construction will take place from A2 to New Town to Malin and forward to Metlika and Montenegro. Construction until Revoz is at the door and is expected to be completed in 2023, during which time the investor, Dars, will prepare the project documentation for the section from Revoz to Malin, which we plan to finish in 2026-2027. And the fact is, by building this section, the people of the White Country will be able to access the highway cross much faster. But the rest is possible from here on out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u279	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Member of the Commission. You have the opportunity to request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u280	Yeah, sure. The Mayors of the New City and the White Land received a letter that the Ministry rejected the project on the grounds that the project was not currently in possession of a carrier in the strategic documents for the development of transport and transport infrastructure, despite the clear starting points, and therefore planned activities agreed with the Protocol on Planning and Construction of the Southern Part of the Third Development Axis of 6. Ten. 2017, in the peace phase. I must say that this is totally unacceptable for the South East region. It is true that the Koros were loud, the Belokrans were usually not. That's why I'm asking you: Is a study of the possible scenarios for the construction of a new road link on the corridor of the south of the third development axis for the section of Malina-Metlik and Maline-Crnomelj-Vinica? Is a deadline plan for the preparation and implementation of the project documentation for the priority sections of Malina-International border crossing of Metlika-Montenegro south? If not, why not? What measures will you take to ensure that the deadline is adopted in 2019? We have very little time left because the year is running out. When will you order the construction of the State Spatial Plan for Spatial Placement of Road Connection Črnomelj South-Vinica with a fixed point at the border of Vinica? Do you realize that the White landscape with an extremely inappropriate road of high risk over Gorjanec or through partisans is completely cut off from the rest of Slovenia, which prevents its development and investment; this results in young people being forced to move to larger and more accessible cities. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u281	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I am certainly aware, and I have repeatedly stressed here that this is a priority. However, the fact is that in this part the documentation is not ready for this stage so that we can go to the State Spatial Plan so that we can make a timetable by the end of 2019. Projects in the north are much more ready. Here, too, you can see, honourable Member, that when we get to the end, some have the idea of changing the route again for ten years and more. The dilemma that we are talking about and is probably also the reason for a letter that I do not know about and that you are telling me about is that it will have to be decided on tolling; whether it is a toll road is not a toll road. If the decision to make the third development axis of the toll road falls, then you know who the investor is, it could be Dars. But this part that we are now discussing is not yet specified or specified. Therefore, it is likely in this letter that a decision will have to be made first, whether it is a toll road or not, which is this. In 2019 it is impossible to adopt a timetable; however, I said, in which part of the third development axis is being built, of course, under the condition that we will receive confirmation of the guarantee law in the National Assembly. Otherwise, this piece will fall into the water, or new sources of funding will have to be sought.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u283	Thank you, Madam Secretary. No desire for a procedural proposal. I'm kidding. Madam Ambassador, please. You always get a word whenever you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u284	Dear President, you're a jester. Of course, I would like the National Assembly to hold a debate at the next meeting on this, because the Minister said that the documentation on this part is not yet ready for this stage so that the project could start in 2019. Your predecessor, Minister Gasperšič, who unfortunately passed our interpellation, said five years ago that this was the longest project implemented, that he only needed money for a building permit. And that's when we talked about how when they were working the bypass around Revoz, they could even dig the ground and work the tunnel under the Gorjans. That's when he got the funds from cohesion, check with his ministry, in value, don't take my word for it, about 3 million for that permission. Right for this section of the southeast, which was the longest-delivered section. There's a lot of transit, there's trucks, there's tourists, there's workers going back south. This section is very important and I'm sorry you don't know about the letter you received from the 9th. 9. 2019, Minister Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Find out, the Ministry may have lost you somewhere. If you hadn't highlighted this letter, you probably wouldn't know what I'm talking about. I think we need to discuss this, because obviously some things are going a little under the rug. When we talked about the guarantee law, I heard from this coalition ending — her, but do not the inhabitants of Koroška and the White Land have the right to be connected? They do. No one, except when a hand has to be raised, will ever speak about the Belocranians. You know, roads are really bad. While we were at the parliamentary club, I tried to take a group of parliamentarians to the White Country to see what we were talking about. And of course by car, because by train it lasts more than 3 and a half hours if we travel Ljubljana–Metlika. But you're going to be pretty bad with the Gorjans, and you're going to be driving behind the trucks. But I haven't been able to get two letters along with me, so maybe three. Therefore, I really ask you to hold a debate at the next meeting on this and not leave the South East region as far back as it is now. It is already very underdeveloped, young people are mass-moving, there are no investments; for who will invest somewhere where one fell tree can prevent him from bringing his things under the penalty to Ljubljana. Not to say it's very difficult to get to the south. Yes, please, I have a request for a public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u285	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We will vote in a completely indelible manner on Thursday in the framework of the vote. This brings us to the next oral question. Mr Bevk only, you have a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravko Počvalska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Mr Minister, first of all, I thank you for your answer to the written question where you have answered me about the maintenance of the unsoaked part of the mine and monitoring, not about the rehabilitation of the mining damage in Idrija. Due to long-standing mining, the area directly above the mercury mine in Idrija must be protected and the city of Idrija must be protected from the consequences of the sitting and other consequences caused by long-standing mining and reflected in the mining damage caused in the affected areas of the mine. Under the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mercury Mine of Idrija and the Mining Act, activities are carried out to maintain the indemnified part of the cave, to monitor influential areas and to remedy mining damage. In order to keep the land occupied by mining mines under constant monitoring in accordance with the Mining Act, to pump underground water into the trenches and to repair damaged buildings. In view of the past exploitation of mines in closing mines, an appropriate urban environment should be maintained before the other consequences of past mining, which are reflected in the mining damage and health conditions of former miners. Dear Minister, this is why the budget line on mine closure and the recovery of mining damage in the framework of the state budgets for 2020 and 2021 is justified. That's why I'm asking you: How much funding is foreseen in the budgets for 2020 and 2021 for the recovery of mining damage in Idria? I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u287	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, it's yours for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Member, Mr Just Bevk, honourable Members, Members! The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is aware of the importance of securing the area directly over the mercury mine in Idrija and beyond, i.e. the city of Idrija. Therefore, in 2011 the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija was established, which will take over employees and the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring after the final liquidation of the mercury mine Idrija. According to a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2014, the financing is required to provide the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Culture. Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for the maintenance of the raw material of the mine and monitoring. And in recent years, the ministry has provided 480,000 euros a year and this year for the harmonisation of the salaries of 490 000 euros. The Ministry also has EUR 490 000 per year for monitoring and maintenance for 2020 and 2021. The maintenance of the unspoiled part of the mine includes cave maintenance and overrun of groundwater. Monitoring includes: visual monitoring, geodetic monitoring, geomechanical monitoring, environmental monitoring and groundwater monitoring. The Ministry is thus funding 9.5 employees working on maintenance and monitoring. In the event of extraordinary events, such as reptiles, flooding, suffocation, the Ministry will act as a good master and provide additional resources. However, the contract does not specify individual works between us and between the Centre, but refers to the Centre's work programme, i.e. the maintenance of the un watered part of the mine and the monitoring. The possible mining damage you are talking about in objects and environments is no longer directly financed by MGRT. Before the current regulation, when the mines were still active, the Ministry provided part of the funds to cover the so-called mining damage caused by the facilities. There is no longer any entity directly causing damage by the destruction of mines. The condition for the final destruction of the mine was also the final rehabilitation of the environment and facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u289	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Thank you, too, Minister, for your answer. You only touched the mining damage at the end. Of course, the activity carried out by the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury is of particular social importance and is carried out in accordance with the annual work programmes; it has the task of protecting the environment to take measures to prevent natural disasters due to the permanent cessation of mining and other tasks related to the provision of human security and the environment. That's his job, too. The government or your ministry, as you yourself have said, has not allocated any funds for the recovery of mining damage for several years after the liquidation of the company, but monitoring is carried out. The report on the re-engineering of the site over the Idrija mine in October 2018 deals with the events already described in 2011, which were mostly not remedied until the time of re-carding, as well as the new developments in the field. The report describes the occurrence of crawling, various slides, hydrological problems and other phenomena that sometimes threaten people and infrastructure. The report also sets out proposals for remedial measures. The municipality of Idrija will therefore prepare an amendment to the mining damage project and require the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue to repair the mining damage in the city of Idrija with a new project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u291	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u292	Thank you. Now like I said. The Ministry shall conclude a contract with the Centre for the maintenance of the raw material of the mine and the monitoring of the affected areas each year in accordance with the adopted and approved programme of work of the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury Idrija. That's why the possible mining damage is no longer in the contract, I've said it before. Secondly, the operation of the Centre is financed by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Ministry of Culture is funded by the mine in accordance with its area of operation, with €160,000 in 2019 for two and a half employees, programme costs and operating costs. Further information on the results of the measurements and analyses taken from the report of the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury Idrija on the results of the measurements and analyses showing that they have been more or less constant within the expected years and confirms that air pollution in Idria and the environment is decreasing. The concentration of mercury in the land remains at the level of past years, the results are comparable to those measured in the last 15-year period when the production and processing of mercury or mercury ore was completed. Research, observation and measurements need to be continued as the environmental consequences of mining and the effects of old mining on the environment in Idria cannot be addressed at the moment; however, with appropriate remedial programmes, their impact on the environment and human health can be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're going to 42nd of 61 questions. You have the floor, Mr Igor Zorčič, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Klampfer. It's not gonna be a hard question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u294	President, thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues, colleagues! Today's issue was sparked by a recent debate when we discussed cross-border line traffic in this house. If we remember, there was a debate on who should all be entitled to free cross-border line traffic. And I am pleased that the National Assembly has supported the proposal of the Modern Centre Party to introduce free transport for war veterans as well. By deepening the historical memory of the creation of the country, the issue of the role and importance of veteran organisations is constantly being updated, and some wondered why some would allow free transport. By recognizing these organizations and, above all, the proper treatment of veterans, the state somehow repays individuals who have served the country in the past, whether they have fought for it or have otherwise helped at some crucial time. The attitude towards veterans is thus a good indicator of the attitude towards national history, to its respect and also to the recognition of the role of individuals — those who are members or not of veteran organisations — in the creation of the country in us and also in the independent processes. A key rule that recognizes the important role of war veterans and the resulting rights is the War Veterans Act. There may not be too much mention on this site of the War Disability Act and the Law on Victims of War Violence. However, veteran organisations point out that at least the War Veterans Act should be subject to certain changes as certain provisions are being implemented, for example in obtaining the status of veteran organisations and in determining the conditions for obtaining the status of war veterans. There are even more of these open questions. I want to know: Are you familiar with these initiatives to amend existing legislation by veteran organisations? How will you approach solving their problems? Are any regulatory changes envisaged or will you consider and formulate possible amendments in the field of the protection of war veterans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u295	Madam Secretary, it's yours for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u296	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Thank you for asking. Special constitutional protection is provided to war veterans under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter is implemented under the War Veterans Act. We respect and are aware of the contribution of war veterans to the success of the independent processes and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. It considers that the basic legislation has already been amended and amended several times, as is the most recent in scope by identifying new categories of war veterans in 2006. However, with the change in 2014, non-governmental organisations pursuing public interest in the field of war veterans have come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry is informed of initiatives by veteran organisations on proposals to establish new conditions for the status of war veterans and also on the status of non-governmental organisations in this area. The Ministry has already met with representatives of some NGOs and a special working group has already been set up for the continuation of work, with representatives of NGOs such as the North Association, the Union of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, the Union of Associations of Fighters for the values of NOB Slovenia, and representatives of ministries such as the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. The working group will meet immediately at the beginning of December, with the aim of examining and developing possible changes in the protection of war veterans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u297	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I find that they do not want to ask you any further, so we are moving on to the 43rd question. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, and the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u298	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In the last two months, two violent attacks on same-sex individuals and the LGBTI community in Slovenia have shaken us with a homophobic background. These were attacks in Murska Sobota on the same-sex person and the Tiffany Club in Ljubljana. This was also a warning or warning that we are not as inclusive a society as we constantly present ourselves, even many times outside. In its report for Slovenia from 2014 to 2018 adopted in spring this year, the European Commission against racism and intolerance, which operates in the Council of Europe, stressed that Slovenia has a serious problem because it does not pursue an enemy speech. We only view this as an uproar to the public, not a threat to security and peace, which it really is. In other words, only when hate speech directly threatens public order and peace can it be persecuted. As a result, we have an important gap in legislation, which means systematic impunity and non-persistence; or systemic acceptance of hate speech. As a same-sex person and as a member of the National Assembly, I myself have experienced many attacks on hate speech, political homophobia and attempts at physical accounting. From hostility in words to hostile acts and physical assaults, unfortunately, it is only a small step, so I am asking the question of both the Ministers, the Minister and the Minister. I want to know: In addition to cases of physical violence against the LGBTI community and the same-sex persons, is the police also investigating the spread and promotion of intolerance or scolding to increase violence against members of LGBTI? How many applications have you received? How many procedures did you start after your official duty? How many of the procedures you started? How many of them began the prosecution's proceedings, how many of the processants ended in a conviction? How many of these judgments have been legally approved, and how many judgments have actually been carried out? Are hate crime records or statistics ever kept on the basis of the victim's personal circumstances, in which case sexual orientation and sexual identity? What actual activities is the Republic of Slovenia carrying out in this field and are intended to raise awareness of the diversity, tolerance and elimination of homophobia? What about the perception of homophobia, for example, among police officers; the application, the measures imposed? What additional measures do your ministry plan to raise public awareness of the dangers of hate speech and hate-motivated crime, and of empowering and supporting victims, since the measures taken so far are obviously insufficiently effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u299	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, you have five minutes. Here you go. As you wish, the order is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, thank you for your questions. As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, I can tell you that the police do not keep criminal records according to the structures of vulnerable groups. All crimes and practices that identify elements that promote intolerance and hatred also define Article 297 of the Penal Code and Article 20 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace are dealt with in a serious and consistent manner by the police. I can tell you that, in the first ten months of this year, the police dealt with 33 offences last year during the same period of 19, following Article 20 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. I don't know what other cases you had in mind. The most outstanding case is when the strangers damaged Tiffany Club in Ljubljana. In public, the event is linked to the structure of the guests who usually stay in the restaurant and are supposed to belong to the LGBT community, but for the time being we cannot comment on this case, since the police are still conducting the investigation and the investigation is still pending. If you ask me what the police will do. In fact, police are already working on training police officers in the area of identification and treatment of infringements with elements of intolerance. In order to address vulnerable groups, including LGBT, police officers are further trained, including to offer appropriate assistance to victims of crime and, of course, to conduct an effective investigation into such crimes. I must also say that Slovenian police often respond to the invitations of these communities, where they represent preventive and all security mechanisms, and they also talk to and negotiate with the community how to reduce the risks of these crimes or offences and effectively prosecute crimes with elements of intolerance and hate speech in order to protect victims of such crimes. I must also tell you that the Slovenian police have also received a European project, together with Legibitro, to participate in the Euro Project Trust Coop, which aims to strengthen trust and cooperation between the police and this community. The project will start with 15. 1. 2020, it is expected to take two years. And I believe that the police will be successful in a particular case at Tiffany's and will investigate this crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u301	You left the minister two minutes. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, I would like to answer in the part concerning the Ministry of Justice. We also explain with regard to the statistical monitoring of data that there is no sensitive personal data in the records relating to criminal proceedings and the enforcement of criminal sanctions, such as data on the sexual orientation of the victim. However, I recently had a meeting with the advocate of the principle of equality, which he highlighted, even though we see ourselves as shortcomings in Slovenian legislation or as being reminded by international institutions that we should make some progress here. It is true, however, that this must also be aligned with the information officer. Here we need to weigh that we are not yet making further certain distinctions. As for the hate speech, I am pleased that the Supreme Court, on the request of the Prosecutor's Office, has adopted the view that it is not necessary to interpret Article 297 of the Penal Code so restrictively, but that the crime has already been committed if it is committed either in a way that may potentially endanger or disturb public order and peace, or by the use of threats, insults and insults. There is no need for a specific danger, as has been interpreted so far, so we believe that substantial progress will be made here. As far as the hate speech is concerned, I think there will be a great deal of help for the new media legislation, including here the Ministry of Justice has worked with the Ministry of Culture. Of course, it will depend on what the debate of the professional public and also the public in Parliament will be and what the final form will be. We are also discussing what needs to be done in the area of other criminal law and giving the authorities the appropriate powers to deal appropriately with the persecution of hate speech. I'm talking about the persecution of hate speech on the Internet, individual posts on Facebook and everything. As far as the other crimes we have defined in our criminal code are concerned, it would point out that where a crime is committed, such as a murder committed because of specific circumstances, that under the circumstances in which the act was committed, there are also elements of hatred or similar motives, the perpetrator may be punished with a higher penalty than for any other criminal offence where there were no such circumstances.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u303	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I thought that the Member would surprise you and not have a request to complete the reply, but that will not be the case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u304	Thanks again for saying that. Nevertheless, despite the lack of statistics, I would like to present to you some of the studies that exist; and they do not draw some encouraging picture, 55% of the LGBTI respondents in Slovenia think that, despite the reporting of violence and hate speech, nothing would happen to these causes. Then 44% thinks that violence is not worth reporting because it happens all the time. A third of the Slovenian population of LGBTI reports threats of violence and exposure to violence. 60% of all same-sex persons and also of persons in the LGBTI community report that they have already received such a different type of violence or hate speech. We know that there have been a lot of proposals in the area of hate speech to engage in hostile speech with a shivering hand. And unfortunately, at the same time, we, who are members of the LGBTI community or the same-sex person, get our share because of these matters. But I have an additional question, or I am interested. The European Commission against racism and intolerance recommends that our authorities amend and supplement legislation on hate speech, as Mrs Katič has explained earlier. The European Commission against Racism and Intolerance found in the report that Slovenia is very irregular in providing reliable information and statistics on hate crimes. That's why I want to know: Why does Slovenia not provide this information and statistics more regularly to the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights at the OSCE? Why are these statistics and information so incomplete? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u305	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Here you are, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, thank you very much for the survey or for the information you have presented. True, the police do not keep records of crimes according to the structures of vulnerable groups, but also leads to other crimes where certain crimes can be qualified. We have already provided this information to your parliamentary group, including some other matters. I believe that if you want or demand it, we will do it for you. Once again, we do not conduct crimes according to the structures of vulnerable groups. I believe that in the cooperation of the police with this LGBT community you will come up with even more effective responses, how to prevent any threat, how to prevent or sanction hate speech, and how to improve the legal framework for this, and how to only communicate the applicant or report such offences or offences. Because today we've been talking about the fact that the victims don't report to number 113. As the Minister of the Interior, it is unusual, for someone who needs help, or someone who is a victim and injured not to report it, is said to be unusual. But I believe that within these frameworks you will also find the right answers; and I believe that this dialogue is already under way and that it will run even more intensely, even after this attack on this place in Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u308	Thank you. If I may add to this that it seems to me that a significantly better position of the victim has been achieved through the latest amendment of the Penal Procedure Act, where I regret that Levica and I have not found any appropriate dialogue and that you have not supported it. We always weigh the principle of proportionality, the principle of the rights of all participants in the procedure, and in particular the need to take care of the victim. With the public's knowledge of the new situation of victims, I think that there will be more awareness and that the victims will decide to report a crime against them in this area as well. I believe that in a short time we will also present to all the members of this group possible further steps to prevent hostile speech, and I will also contact you in your group. But it's always important to weigh. We weigh the principle of proportionality. We defend all rights of all participants in the proceedings. However, if we want to effectively prosecute individual crimes, and here I also have in mind the crime of hostile speech, if I use this lazi expression, it is necessary to give the police the appropriate tools to deal with it. As long as the police have no options, then it is also difficult to act against perpetrators who are often unknown and hiding under some anonymous posts on the Internet.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u309	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u310	Thanks again for saying that. The real development of society is not only in technological acquisitions, the real development of society is measured by the degree of inclusion and sensitivity to the rights of disadvantaged groups. And rights begin at the level of speech, so I propose that we hold an in-depth debate in the National Assembly on these violent attacks on LGBTI and also on the hostile speech. In the end, I would just say, same-sex people have the same dreams, doubts, desires, joys, worries, and feelings of love as everyone else. We are people like all of you and everyone else; but like you, we do not want to live in a society where you or we must be afraid that we love someone, love him, or belong to him. And from that point of view, we do not want to be afraid because we are human or because we want to be human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u311	Mr Member, we will vote on your procedural proposal on Thursday in the framework of the votes. With this we are moving, honourable Members, honourable Members, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, to question number 44, which you will ask the Magi. Andrej Reich, Minister of Public Administration for Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u312	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Ministers and Honourable Minister of Public Administration! I refer to you the question I raised last time actually to the Minister for Environment and Space. However, this is an instruction sent last summer by the Ministry of Environment and Space to administrative units regarding the professional competences of authorised engineers, of which over 6,000 were able to be appointed as project manager at the stage of obtaining the building permit. Last year, the Ministry of Environment and Space, by a single decision, challenged the possibility of this professional competence acquired by authorised engineers during the certified education at legal universities in Slovenia and abroad and with many work experience. This way, of course, gives priority to architectural professions and puts all engineers in a subordinate position. As an authorized engineer, I was approached by colleagues from the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, who therefore also lost their opportunity to work, the right to work. That is why I am actually asking you because we and the Chamber are assessing that administrative units have exceeded their powers in Article 43 of the Construction Law when issuing building permits in accordance with the ILO's instructions in their conduct. Administrative units are not supposed to be competent to judge, in the law of an undefined concept, the dominant professions. The law clearly assigns this task only to the designer. So the designer, the company is the one that chooses one of the authorized engineers or authorized architects of one of the available ones as project manager. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: In view of the content of Article 43 of the Construction Law, which lays down the conditions for the issue of a building permit, are the administrative units responsible for verifying whether the design designer has designated an authorised architect or an authorized engineer from the profession which is dominant in terms of the purpose of construction? Their task is simply to verify that the authorised architect or engineer is listed in the directory of the competent chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u313	Thank you, Mr Member, for asking the question. Mr. Secretary, you know, it's yours for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u314	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, honourable Member, no one with any instructions from anyone in the profession will object to anything. I have also done a very detailed survey on administrative units, or there is indeed a problem in the field in this regard. There are no or no reports of such problems. However, that it may have come from some administrative unit to the Ministry of the Environment and the room for clarification, this was mainly due to the pressure of engineers or architects. And the officials found themselves in some unappreciative position, or between the hammer and the accompaniment of one or the other profession. The fact is, from the very beginning, there has been disagreements between engineers and architects about which profession is dominant in individual constructions. The apple of the dispute is now who can be the project manager. The construction law in Article 12 states that the project manager must identify the authorised architect or the authorised engineer from the profession which predominates with regard to the purpose of the construction and that the project manager shall coordinate the production of the project documentation and confirm it. The law here is very clear. So the designer appoints as the project manager or architect or engineer of the profession, which is dominant in terms of the purpose of the type of construction. Here is the question of the interpretation of which profession is dominant in what construction, and this is not provided for in the law. The administrative unit shall obtain the project documentation to be signed by the designer and by the project manager. The Ministry of Environment and Space, of course, in good faith and for good purpose, issued an explanation which could also be interpreted in a way that requires the administrative authority to make substantive decisions on questions of relevance to the project manager, in view of which section is crucial in the design of the facility itself. However, it is very difficult for an official to require that he be such an expert in all the areas covered by the individual project so that he can make a substantive decision on what is predominant in a given project in a very complex situation. I think it is very clear in Article 43 of the Construction Law that the documentation for obtaining the building permit was signed by the designer and the project manager, who was entered in the directory of the competent professional chamber at the time of the production of the documentation, and that their component is a signed statement. It also follows from Article 43 of the Law that the law does not impose on an official, that the law does not provide for such an official to have a substantive opinion. That is true, it also follows from Article 12 of the Construction Law, which clearly states that an authorised engineer or an authorised architect is to be appointed as project manager by a project designer from a profession which is dominant in view of the purpose of construction. We therefore believe that the designer is the one who has to judge which profession is dominant, then appoints the project leader, which he confirms by signing on the project. In the opinion of officials in administrative units, the law is very clear if individual projects were not to be constantly argued between one or the other professions. Another directive came this summer from the Ministry of Environment and Space, but I think it is best that the working group of administrative units and representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space sit at the table and clarify these things so that these instructions are not misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u315	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There's no need for further questions. And now we are talking about question 45 from Mr Željk Cigler, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu, who was only there until 6 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u316	Thank you very much. To the Minister of Education, I ask Mr Pikal a question concerning investment and investment maintenance of primary schools and kindergartens in Slovenia. At the 13th last session, I think that the last session, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, was found on the basis of information sent to us from the municipalities and schools, that the lack of investment in the primary and kindergarten areas in Slovenia is very large, I would say alarming. Why alarmed? The country in the field of pre-school education and primary schools adopts standards and standards that require a satisfactory space. Those who then have to implement these decisions taken by the State are local communities. I tell you, in my municipality where I come from, investing in primary schools and kindergartens is practically the biggest investment thing. That's right. However, I personally think, and so, once in this country, it was regulated by a school tolar, if I may say, from the old days when it was still tolar that the state co-financed these activities. In the future, it is predicted for local communities that 14 thousand 251 additional seats will have to be provided in primary schools or 750 departments. From where will the municipalities get the money for these investments, and from this year's budget, which we say is the largest so far and shows what direction this government is taking, this coalition represents, there is virtually no money. Therefore, in line with the debate on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, which was represented by representatives of all parties, Levica has tabled an amendment to increase investment in primary schools and kindergartens since 2001 because it has not been provided to municipalities. This is the need that comes from the fact that our Minister, who is supported in Levica, advocates an accessible, high-quality public network of schools and kindergartens. I would like to say that primary schools have changed subject, in primary schools are working in smaller groups, more and more are children with special needs, more and more are children in extended living because parents are working in the afternoon so that young families can survive. There is a shortage in classrooms, dining rooms, kitchens, specialized classrooms and so on. For this purpose, the State must ensure that municipalities or schools, especially children who are also directly affected, and their teachers are co-financed by the necessary investment. This is of particular interest to me because, on the Committee on Finance, these amendments of the Left have been rejected, although all the parties on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth have supported this. I want to know: How does the Ministry of Education intend to address this problem? Does the Ministry or Minister Pikalo support the budget amendments of the Left to provide funds to increase primary and kindergarten space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u317	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If I understand correctly, you want a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u318	An oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u319	An oral answer at the next sitting; and so it will be. You have the floor, Mr Luka Mesec, as well as the absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandro Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u320	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister for Agriculture, Aleksandri Pivec would like to ask you a question about the protection of animal welfare. A few months ago, Madam Minister, I asked you a question about the transport of live animals by sea from Luka Koper, who must spend several weeks on their way to the slaughterhouse in conditions worse than hell. And then you said to me that it's not like we have the proper inspectorates doing their job and there's no problem. Just a few months later, this summer, the broadcast by the Council on Channel A published exactly what I was talking about – images of hungry, dehydrated, dehydrated animals, covered with living wounds and their own excrements, which were loaded on small trucks, brought from Latvia to Luka Koper, and from there by ship to Israel. Of the 361 calves and bulls that were brought into trucks that were possible for transporting pigs, rather than cattle, to Luka Koper, many have not survived. What did you do; did you respond to that? You have done nothing, although it is clearly stated in the Coalition Treaty that you will regulate the transport of live animals and that you will set higher minimum standards. Even so, what I'm telling you is not a lonely story. If you look at videos on YouTube and Facebook published by activists, you will find countless videos every day, every week, of animals living in inhuman conditions traveling through Slovenia daily in slaughterhouses. Did you raise your standards? You're not. You look away, the public view, so that we can continue to pretend that we are a civilized society and that there is no problem, while hundreds of thousands of animals suffer from battery breeding, industrial breeding and so on. The Ministry of Agriculture works exclusively in the interest of the meat industry. The Coalition Treaty contains the chapter Animal Welfare, where numerous commitments have been made; from the prohibition of battery farming, regulation of the transport of live animals to the information of adults and children on the harmfulness of excessive meat consumption. What's the Ministry doing? In all areas, quite the opposite; it promotes meat consumption, although Slovenians have proven to eat significantly more than it would be healthy for humans or the environment. For all the weights, you encourage livestock farming, pigmeat, last year EUR 2 million of new subsidies were given and so on. My question is simple: When are you going to stop looking at animals at the Ministry like they're just living pieces of meat? And when will you start applying a chapter in a coalition contract called Animal Welfare? I would like an answer orally at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u321	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will have the opportunity to answer the next regular meeting on oral questions. Mr Jani Prednik will ask the Minister for Environment and Space to Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u322	Dear President, respectable both ministers present, colleagues, colleagues! The public consideration of the proposal for a new Housing Law also raises important questions concerning the situation of all those who are beneficiaries of reduced or subsidised rents. More than once, Madam Minister, you have correctly explained how the transition from the current non-profit to future cost rents, which will be higher than before, since they should include all costs. For those beneficiaries who would not be able to pay their rent, a housing allowance is introduced as a new social transfer. You're in the last session of your colleague, Mag. Koprivac was also told that the eligibility price is also increasing, which I understand as your confirmation that the number of beneficiaries of the subsidy or apartment allowance will be higher. In the same breath, you also claimed that nothing would change for an individual, at least not for one who, after a new one, would be entitled to this apartment allowance. However, some beneficiaries of a non-profit or cost rent will not be entitled to an apartment allowance, but the rent will certainly increase. As it is true people, in this debate I miss in particular the specific figures on the number of future and current beneficiaries and the specific amount they will have to pay under the new regime. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How many beneficiaries are there so far, non-profit or future rents? How many of them can't pay those rents right now? In view of the planned entry prices, how many beneficiaries of the cost rent will not be eligible for the apartment allowance at the same time? What will be the difference between the new cost and the current non-profit rent for those who will not be eligible for an apartment allowance? In what way will you solve the problem of those who will not be entitled to the allowance, but will not be able to pay the increased rent? How did you set the prices for eligibility of rent and apartment allowance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u323	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u324	Good evening, thank you for that question. I think I can safely say that the Housing Law is one of the most important laws you will adopt in this mandate. According to my assessment, the law is very well prepared, especially in this part of which we will now discuss, that is, in the work governing public rental apartments. Our objective and the result of this law will be to increase the public housing fund. This is what we are missing in Slovenia right now. We do not have enough public rental apartments, so many pay very high rents for apartments that come to market after market rents. This law will lead to an increase in the number of public rental apartments, and we will ensure this by means of more measures. One is that we will turn the current non-profit rent into a cost rent, although the cost is by definition non-profit. The current non-profit is so low because it has not been indexed since 2003 and has remained so low that, on the other hand, it has caused problems to the public housing funds. This rent does not cover the costs they have and the investment will not be reimbursed to the housing funds until after 40 years, which we need to change. So now the new non-profit rent, which we now call cost, will only be indexed. The current non-profit will allow the maintenance costs of these apartments and the costs of investment that public housing funds have had in these apartments to be reimbursed. The investment will be reimbursed in 20 years, which means that the construction cycle can be faster and less indebted to housing funds because they will be able to recover their investment more quickly. Nevertheless, we raise the percentage to which public housing funds can be indebted because we want to increase or accelerate the construction of new housing. However, you have highlighted the problem of perhaps communicating too little — and this will be corrected — what this means for an individual. For housing funds, this means that they will be better able to place more housing on the market, which means that it is better for all citizens as a result. What does this mean for those who are paying a nonprofit rent today? I'd make one of those tests very plastic so we could all imagine. One-member household – I will now take the area of Ljubljana Bežigrad, a new apartment, 35 square metres away from Bežigrad – today pays a non-profit rent of €105; this new cost will be €185. What does this mean for this individual? Today, this individual will pay EUR 21 from his own pocket, he will pay less, he will pay 18.55 euros if income of EUR 600 is found. If the income of this person is found to be EUR 800, today he will pay EUR 105, and he will pay EUR 37, i.e. significantly less. When's he gonna pay more? If the income of thousands of euros is found, today it will pay €105 and it will pay €157, which I think is quite fair. If you have a thousand euros in income found and you pay for a new apartment behind Bežigrad for a rent of 157 euros, I think it's fair somewhere. It is also fair that we return or that our housing funds have the means to build new ones. Two-member household, we're talking again about a new state behind Bezigrad, 35 square meters. Today it is for such a couple, let's say it is a young couple, a non-profit lease of 135 euros; it will be new to cost EUR 238, but today it will pay the couple after receiving the subsidy, from their own pocket of 27 euros, 23, that is, less; in the event that the income of the two 900 euros is found. In the event that the income of the two thousand 100 euros has been found, they are today paying 135 euros, after which they will be 28 euros, which is significantly lower. When do you pay more? If they both make a thousand 300 euros together, there will be an increase of 148 today. When we get to the families, a three-member household is called a three-member household, today there will be €291 for a new apartment 55 square meters behind Bežigrad. Today, this family pays 111 euros if it has thousands of euros in income, after the new significantly lower – only 29 euros. If there are thousands of 600 incomes found, today 165 euros, after the new 91 euros. Then we'll do another lap because I'm running out of time. If we go to a four-member household, 65 square feet, the same new apartment behind Bežigrad. Today, such a four - part family pays [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u325	Mr. Minister, listeners and listeners can't hear you, viewers and viewers can't see you. But you are one of the few ministers who asks for further questions. That's a pretty good example for the government. Mr. Ambassador, allow the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u326	Because he asked so nicely, I'll make it possible. I am also interested, however, in the fact that the preparation of this law and the professional starting points is the task of your ministry, which you run, is called the Ministry of Environment and Space. [[…]] Since the adoption of this law has a possible impact on the social situation of people, I am interested in: In what way and are you involved in setting eligibility prices also with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u327	You've been given an opportunity, Mr. Secretary. Then just answer whether you also want the full day opportunity to submit a motion of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u328	Thank you. I think we're going to discuss this law a lot more. And let me continue where I left off, I think I'm running out of time with the four-members. So, a four-member household, 65 square meters, a new apartment behind Bežigrad – location of the enka as so far. So far, such a family has paid 39 euros if it has been found that the household income is thousands of EUR 600, it will pay less, i.e. 34 euros out of its own pocket. If income is found at a thousand 900, it is currently paying 195, after the new significantly lower, only 34 euros. Where it starts to grow, however, if income is found to be 2 000 200 euros, today 195 euros, after the new 214, a minimum of more. I think that, this scale, we have made this transition very reasonable and very considerate and aware that we do not want to make the situation worse for the individual. At the same time, the situation will improve for the public housing funds and, of course, budget allocations or allocations will have to be made from the budget in order to ensure that this apartment allowance or subsidy is paid. Another measure to be envisaged and to be taken at the expense of the State is that we will also cover this subsidy to the municipalities in those cases where persons are in public housing. Thus, we also want to encourage the congregations to build more because they will consequently pay less for housing subsidies. Of course, we cooperate in this law with both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance. During this closing time of public debate, we are intensifying with the Ministry of Finance, because our actions must of course – at the time when we bring this law to you in Parliament – I would like to have very well worked out where the finances will flow for all of our housing measures. To a certain extent, we can only solve this housing problem at the Ministry of Environment and Space, and I think that this law is also very good, but in the end it is necessary to sustain it, of course, by means. It also seems to me that we have established that if someone does not qualify for a subsidy, it means that he deserves so much to be able to pay and it is fair to pay the rent. Each year, income will also be checked, and those who improve their material situation will, of course, then move on to the cost, which is just.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr President, there is still room for a procedural proposal. You don't want to. Thank you. Mag. Meira Hot, you have a question for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Aleksandro Pivec, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u330	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Respectable ministers, colleagues, colleagues! I addressed the Minister a few months ago with an initiative on the urgent amendment of the Animal Protection Act and, inter alia, advocated sanctioning neglect and discarding of animals, higher penalties for torturers and certain other necessary systemic solutions for animal welfare. Now I wonder what ever happened to the novel of the Animal Protection Act. The ministry prepared a draft this spring, but it later withdrew it. However, changes are urgently needed, which is highlighted by both animal protection companies and many animal lovers. So I'm asking: How much longer will it take to explicitly ban the execution or euthanasia of healthy abandoned animals that cannot be surrendered after 30 days of shelter? At last year's hearing, Minister Pivec, at the beginning of her term of office, I clearly advocated banning the euthanasia of healthy animals. While it is necessary to commend the practice of some shelters, which are still in line with the No-Kill Policy principle, it is essential that the law prohibits the killing of healthy animals by a provision. I therefore ask the competent ministry: When can we expect an amendment to the Animal Protection Act? I also reiterate my call on the Ministry to clearly introduce into the law a provision prohibiting the binding of dogs on chains and the placing of dogs in inappropriate dogs. The chain is the physical and psychological torture of dogs. Dear Minister, you were handed over 12 thousand signatures of a petition against dogs this April. Some European countries, such as Austria, Germany, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands and others, have already done so. The law provides for the right to freedom of movement and under no circumstances shall dogs be temporarily bound to a chain or to any other form of attachment. Binding dogs to a leash is allowed between walks and during veterinary procedures. The laws of these countries lay down new specifications for dogs and fenced parts of the yard. In addition to the ban on chains, small dogs are prohibited. I'm also interested in: What do you think about the proposal for a measure introduced by the United Kingdom to introduce surveillance cameras in slaughterhouses to control the potentially horrifying behavior, neglect and inappropriate treatment of animals in slaughterhouses? Do you support the change in the very old definition of animals in the existing law and can we expect changes in this area as well? I also call for consideration to be given to changing legal terminology in relation to animal ownership under the Animal Protection Act, since the term owner is no longer appropriate. I request an oral response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u331	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. The Minister will have the opportunity to respond to the following, which is at the 14th regular session. This brings us to the second round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members, which range from 50th to 61st questions, with two being cancelled. The 50th question will be asked by Mr Franz Breznik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Meira Hot, I can assure you that in early December I will convene a meeting on this very subject, and all the laws that should be in procedure are not. I did not receive a single bill from the Ministry of Agriculture as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. But I agree with you, so we will be in December – also in the back is colleague Prednik, attend the meeting, I think we can open up, speed things up, because I think that the Animal Protection Act is one of the more important laws. I hope that we are still a European country, that we also have an ethical attitude towards animals at one higher level. It also seems acceptable to me what my colleague Mesec used to say about animal torture in transporting through Slovenia and so on. But I won't be too long [[…]] I ask the Minister of Agriculture about the saddest part of Slovenian society, these are the farmers' pensioners. I'm talking about the population of 7,000 people who, because of the previous regime, have been prevented from paying some contributions for at least a few years. We are talking about farm pensions, where 51% of farmers have a full pension, I am talking about a full pension, a pension of less than 250 euros. As a statistic alone, 97% of all rural pensioners have less than €500. I therefore ask the Minister, including ministers coming within about one third of the mandate, and the government: What do you think at 2 billion and a little more in the budget to do for the pensioners' farmers? These people cannot wait for the next favourable economic climate that will take place in a few years, because unfortunately, by natural means, the vast majority of them will no longer be with us. It's probably a category that's experienced a lot of injustice. With walks, we can say, on the ground, by visiting farms, I follow their extremely sad stories in their last lifetime, with a number of letters, I could read them once. This category of pensioners does not have the right to an annual regression. Not even till I'm a year old. They didn't get a single euro. I therefore ask the Minister of Agriculture, who is also a member of Desus: What are your plans with the country's pensions? Is it in the interest of renovating Slovenian agriculture to make a generational overhaul? What example will the older people who have worked in the countryside for 50 years in the fields be burned down, younger generations who are supposed to decide to take over farms? This is my public invitation, a public question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Thank you very much for the answer, which should be given orally at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u333	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Minister will be invited to the next meeting, this is the 14th regular session to give you an oral response. We are now coming up with the 52nd question of the Member of Parliament, which Mr Boris Doblekar, Minister of Infrastructure of Mags, is yours. Alenko Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u334	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister Bratuškov, colleagues, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I have one question for you, which concerns the distribution of electricity throughout the country. I want to know: What is your view of the energy concept of Slovenia and in particular about financing the development of the distribution network? Here I would like to point out that in view of the needs that are emerging – and there is an ever-increasing need for more and more electricity, including in terms of environmental issues, carbon-free societies and so on, we are all talking about this all the time. The needs are increasing, the network needs to be renewed more and more electricity needs to be brought to many people at all. I'd stop here and ask you: Will settlements, hamlets, larger slums, especially in the countryside where the old electrical power plant is, as soon as possible, produce better electricity, be called more quality supply by distributors? Above all, I would like to draw attention here to a problem that I have already raised several times. In fact, it still happens that on individual farms that were once empty, 50,000 of them are abandoned farms, and now people are returning. I also want to know: Will we allow people returning to abandoned farms, including by means of a multi-funded country, to access the electricity they need, that is to say, the power supply? Not long ago, when we were able to read about the Family Press from Hudenje down near Krška, because the family was powerless. And then, of course, help, raise funds, people, to plug them in. I have also repeatedly mentioned all these farms that are without and where people are really going back now. I have mentioned and will then point out in particular once again, because now I will run out of time, the situation at Mahlin farm in the Širmanski Hryb, where this farm comes back to life and there is no electricity on it. That's why I want to know: Do you think that the State is significantly helping and is making more resources to ensure that such farms and families without electricity are given electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u335	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Minister, you have five minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. For me it is unacceptable that in 2019 anyone without electricity or clean drinking water is from the water. I think that's what I said. But it's not the country that builds these distribution networks. We've had this debate before, I think. The national energy and climate plan is the first document, which will be a little more medium-term or still a little longer in the long term to identify what will happen to Slovenian energy in the coming years or by 2030. The energy concept of Slovenia that you are asking me about is a document that comes in line for the NEPN and will determine for decades what our country needs. Of course, electricity is also part of this energy system. In NEPN, according to the National Energy and Climate Plan, we want to very clearly define Slovenian targets by 2030 and also how we can achieve these goals. Which means that we will also define the necessary financial means for realisation more or less – but we tend to pursue more ambitious goals when we talk about renewable energy sources, when we talk about release and, of course, when we talk about spending as little as possible. The fact is that the need for electricity is increasing, and it will grow year by year. Therefore, there is absolutely a question on the ground of how we will or how the electricity distribution companies will be able to ensure this. This document, NEPN, will clearly state how much further the electricity distributors will have to invest in this electricity distribution network in order to follow the needs, requirements, wishes, whatever we call it. Therefore, I ask you to understand that we will continue to endure these few months, and when we have a precise document, I will come before you with these numbers without now realizing how much money will be needed. However, the fact is that there are specific amounts — at least such estimates — that are. But once again, this is related to the fact that if we want, and we want, our environment to be as beautiful as possible, if we want to deal with climate change in terms of electricity consumption in the future, this will have to be followed by an electricity distribution network. Because if we don't, we're not gonna get this electricity to the end users. But as we say, in the NEPN, which we are really actively preparing now in these last months, there will be precise targets and also precise measures, including for this part that you are asking me about. So once again, I ask you to understand that when the document is completed, we will discuss it again. At the moment, we have an environmental report on the table, dealing with which measures listed in the NEPN are environmentally acceptable, which can be brought to a stage by certain additional measures in order to be environmentally acceptable. So, as I have already said, I believe that in early 2020 we will be able to get this document so far as it will be confirmed by the Government, and then with great joy, even though this is not our obligation, we will also come to present it to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u338	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear Minister, I am pleased that these documents are being prepared so that everything seems to be running out as quickly as possible. Of course, I also have to agree with you, so I dared you that in 2019 it somehow does not seem that there is any household or, above all, rural, farms that somehow revive back, without electricity. With certain measures people come back, go to work and at home want to work on a farm, on earth and somehow get involved back. But on those farms that were once abandoned by a completely flawed, undemocratic, democratic system in that democratic system, when farms were emptied and people went to cities, there was no electricity up there. Now, that's right. We pay people bills where there's a network. The network is paid and the network address, of course, also builds an electrical network, if I know. That's what they say. There's a country around here. I hope we don't deny it now. Of course, there are calls, and there are European funds, and there is rural development, a bunch of addresses, lots of options where that could be done. And once again, this farm that I mentioned earlier on the Syrian Hill is still out of electricity. There's a woman up there with no lights, no electricity, and it's a disaster. The community can't help anything here, and who else will help if not the power distributors? And these, of course, are limited by resources. We're looking at where the commercial interest is, where it's not. I ask you once again to present your view here in this part of the answer where you have the opportunity to clarify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u340	Thanks again. I suggest you give me a specific address, and I'll see what's going on. But the fact is, the state doesn't build electricity distribution networks. The second fact is, yes, the network is in some ways a public income, which is not collected by the State, but by the company established to carry out this public economic service, is SODO. Doing good, not doing good, could be cheaper, could be less networked — all things we can talk about. You probably remember the debate a while ago, when we somehow wanted to define responsibilities clearly at the Ministry of Infrastructure, even because of the network that this company is collecting, I was not even heard from my coalition partners, who obviously want everything to stay the way it is. On the table, people can see very clearly how much a piece — and this is not a small piece, I agree with you — falls to this so-called network, which is designed not only for new constructions, but perhaps especially for renovations. So, for this particular case, if you can give me an address, a last name is not that important, I can check what and how, and give you the answer next time. As far as the network is concerned, yes, I agree – it is and is not state-owned. So the state has less influence on that. However, it could be different because it is a public service and it would probably be right for the Ministry to have some influence on it. He doesn't have one today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u342	Thank you for your word. Thank you, Minister. I'm glad we can even talk about this here. This is really not a lonely case, there are probably more of these cases, I mentioned earlier the family of Printk from Krske, where we had to raise money to bring them electricity. You know, this farm that I mentioned, I'm going to give you this information here, it's in a very beautiful area in the Lithuanian congregation, in the Širmanski Hrib, it's called. This owner bought this farm and wants to continue running it, he also deals with farm tourism, people come up, nature is intact, he provides work for himself, his family, also others, and so on, he pays taxes, and of course it would be right that he also has electricity. However, since his mother is home without electricity on this farm, this does not lead anywhere. The mountains should then have an aggregate in such facilities, which, of course, pollutes the environment, causes noise, disturbs the environment, beautiful nature and so on. In short, I agree that the nets are quite high, and of course people also expect to get something out of these nets then. Many transformer stations need to be replaced and so on, things are old, upgrades need to be done. It saddens me, too, that the economy is not well cared for. I don't know, we had to have a huge company, and then we had to have an extra power supply, because there's so much more consumption and so on. There is not enough incentives here from the state, I would say, or the use of European funds in this area. But I believe that you will do your best and that something better will be done in this area. Once again, I think it is very important that we work on rural development, especially in the area of infrastructure modernisation, such as, in any case today, electricity, water, of course, young people want the Internet and so on. Therefore, given that I have received some answers, I believe that you have not been able to provide me with them at the moment, such a problem as the absence of any electrical connection in any household or in the countryside – it seems to me that it is only necessary to talk a little more about this and to have a broader debate on this subject. And to convince all those responsible that more money will be spent on distribution networks to update and build those that are not yet built. So, I will give you the information, and I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we hold a broader debate on this issue at a future meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday 21 November 2019 in the framework of the vote. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask Health Minister Aleš Šabedra a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Honourable Minister, Honourable Minister, Honourable colleague and colleague! My question will be addressed to the Minister, because I am interested in the interest in promoting health, because we are all aware that each euro invested in prevention is the largest investment in the long term. However, I estimate that investing in the promotion of health is mainly work on systems such as school nutrition, the traditional breakfast we had on 15 November, on Friday, which has been going on for many years, student diet, training of cook staff, promotion of physical activity. All these activities need to be upgraded, which is also reflected in the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025, which we have adopted in the previous mandate. Of course, it is also right to invest in reducing waiting types, but sometimes we wonder if waiting species could also be reduced due to increased investment in improving health. Health companies with as few chronic and other diseases as possible due to unhealthy lifestyles can certainly contribute to the sustainable use of healthcare funds. This is true, of course, of those diseases that can be mitigated or even prevented by systematic prevention. In Slovenia, three successful screening programs, Zora, Dora and Svit work well. Foreshadows of cancers have been identified and many people have been saved long-term and no pleasant treatment due to their response to preventive screening. The quality of life is greatly improved by this individual who has done something for himself in due time. Unfortunately, we are also an ageing society and the desire of all of us and the country is to remain as active as possible and at the same time benefit the hospital stock as possible. We also expect the older person to remain active, independent and unfortunately unburdened for society as long as possible after leaving for retirement. Preventive activities must therefore be strengthened in all areas, including mental health. So, Mr. Secretary, I would like to refer to you the following question: What programmes will be co-financed and how much funding will the Ministry of Health devote to a programme for strengthening and protecting health? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u346	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the implementation of the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health for the period 2015-2025 and the corresponding Action Plan 2019-2022, which was publicised until 5 December 2019, the Ministry of Health issued a public call for the co-financing of programmes in the field of nutrition and physical activities for health until 2022. By invitation to tender, it called for funding of €2.4 million for activities relating to the achievement of the objectives of the National Food Programme and physical activities for health for the period 2015-2022. In the context of the invitation to tender, we will support the implementation of measures and activities focusing on the achievement of the following objectives: to increase the number of children breast-feeding; to increase the availability of healthy food and meals by including healthy food supply in and awareness-raising packages for recipients of social assistance; to improve the composition of food produced by the national food processing industry; and to raise awareness of the benefits of such food for health; to increase the proportion of regular and active residents by promoting regular physical activity, active mobility at work, school, after work, and by linking spatial planners with local communities to improve conditions for regular physical activity; to reduce the proportion of malnourished and fragile residents, in particular in hospitals and homes where the cost of care of the patient is greatly increased and to worsen health outcomes. This is mainly a matter of strengthening the competences of the staff and the subsequent possibility of introducing a patient's dietary treatment in the context of treatment. The selection process is just before the end, so more specific information on the programmes to be co-financed cannot yet be provided. The beneficiaries will be informed by the end of this month, i.e. by the end of November, and the list of co-financed programmes and recipients of funds will also be published on the Ministry's website. At this point, however, I can also provide information that we have signed eight programmes today, namely two vaccination promotion programmes and six programmes to prevent sexually transmitted diseases and HIV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Minister, I intended, we have an ideal opportunity to invite all citizens and citizens to participate in these screening programmes that are available to us, because these three programmes, Dora, Svit and Zora, are successful. We simply have the opportunity to keep people, citizens and citizens as healthy as possible, because early detection of these cancers is crucial. Many times it happens to us that disease comes with age, but more and more, cancer does not choose age and more young people get cancer. It would therefore make sense for these preventive programmes to be implemented before, not after 50 years, and not only for risk groups, but also for someone else. That's why I'm here calling on the Ministry to think about it. On the other hand, we have a lot of dementia. We could've done a lot of things here, too, in the early detection of dementia. For somehow we can extend the dementia or that it does not come to that chronic and final state when man is no longer able to carry out all his activities alone. Therefore, it would make sense for us to work in this place more in the field of promotion. However, I certainly thank you for the information you have given me regarding these two invitations to tender. I believe that in the area of health promotion, we will still have to work hard to ensure that there is as little hospital leave as possible for employees and everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u350	Thank you for your word. All three screening programs, namely Zora, Dora and Sweet, produce very good results. In fact, with early detection of cancer A, the possibility or percentage of survival of these patients is significantly greater. However, I must say that, compared to other countries, when we are talking to other colleagues, the response of the population to all three screening programmes is, in fact, above average, great to other countries. And actually investing in so-called A, screening programmes and then also in health promotion programmes and long-term healthy lifestyles brings positive results, as we are monitoring the outcomes of all these programmes. So yes, investing in prevention, of course, within the capacity we have, is certainly important and gives positive effects, not only on the long term, but also on the medium and short term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u352	President, thank you. Nice greetings to all present! In March, the government adopted a Regulation on self-sustainment from renewable energy sources, which also introduced new forms of self-sustainment, such as the so-called RES communities. Madam Minister, after the adoption of the regulation, the media have issued your statement that surpluses from solar power plants will be paid from now on. According to owners or investors, this is a welcome novelty, but recently some have warned me that they have been asking questions in the Court and distribution about when and how these surpluses will be accounted for, but they have not received an answer. I was also reminded that the Complementary Act on the methodology for determining the regulatory framework and methodology for calculating the network for electric operators was being completed. In this regard, they are interested in: Is self-sustainment envisaged? If the account is larger, then this will not be in line with the logic you have announced regarding the payment of surpluses. Therefore, they are also interested in: How and when will the surplus be paid? As for solar power plants, I am interested in the following: How far is Slovenia with the strategy of decomposing or decomposing solar cells, panels after the end of their lifetime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u354	Thank you. Dear Member, what I previously said about the Energy Agency's act, I probably don't need to repeat – that we have the agency's written assurance that at this point in time, the lift you're asking me about will not happen. As regards the payment of surpluses, I must first say that it is in accordance with the provisions of the Self-Sustainment Regulation. This already says that these solar power plants are primarily designed for self-sustainment. In accordance with the provisions of the Self-Supply Regulation, the owner of a self-supply facility shall not market or sell electricity produced in this installation. However, where, during the accounting period, the amount of electricity delivered is greater than the quantity of electricity taken over, the customer shall submit the excess amount of electricity to his supplier. It is therefore primarily about self-sustainment of electricity, but not about marketing it in the case of overstretches that may have been produced. The rules of accounting for self-supply are also such that surpluses cannot be sold directly; only a possible surplus can be transferred to the supplier at the end of the accounting period, which is normally a calendar year. If surpluses occur at the end of the accounting period, the surpluses shall be handed over to the supplier as agreed, either in return or free of charge. Unlike the old self-sustainment regulation, which expressly provided for surpluses to be surrendered only free of charge, surpluses under the new regulation, when this accounting period has passed, can also be paid. However, it is all a matter of contractual agreement between the customer and the supplier. However, the regulation certainly allows for this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u356	Thank you, Minister. With that first thing you said, I'm, I'm gonna say, somehow satisfied, I'm gonna see what else they're gonna tell me. But you didn't tell me about the storage of solar panels. If you can just add now that I'm not going to be in violation, because I'm not going to apply for Article 246. I'd like to know that, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u358	I'm sorry, this is really missing. But actually, I'm not the minister who's in charge of this area. But anyway, she's going to give you a few acts that regulate it. The photovoltaic modules fall within the category of electrical and electronic equipment bearing the EEE code, which is subject to specific rules relating to the rules governing the handling of such equipment, namely the Regulation on waste electrical and electronic equipment. In order to avoid the generation of waste on their costs, the EEE code shall be used to ensure the collection and processing of all the waste collected, namely electrical and electronic equipment. That's what I can tell you. Otherwise, this matter is actually within the competence of a colleague from the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u360	Thank you. Even though I had time before. Look, this is what I expected. Perhaps you should announce another minister to give me an answer, but from experience and from the facts that we know that we have put these solar cells in our house a few years ago and that the deadline will soon run out, those who have invested in it are particularly interested in where they can store. Because so far there is no such landfill in Slovenia. And that's gonna be a big problem. I'm not going to say it's going to be the same problem as nuclear waste, because there we know what we're dealing with with the Croats. But with us, we put something on the market, people get caught, they get subsidized, and eventually, when we have to store it somewhere, people don't know where. However, I would like to ask, Vice-President, if the Minister or the Minister can give any further answer to this, because I have previously asked for an additional question that I have not received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u361	Unfortunately, Mr Member, this is not in accordance with the rules of procedure. However, I would like to ask you to determine whether you want the debate to be held at the next meeting or not. Because you didn't say it, but you took advantage of those minutes that were available to you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u362	The President, as I said at the outset – I can announce, although I know that the government Members will not be able to do so again, because we have been sitting here for quite a long time. [[…]] But I would still ask if I could get an answer. If not, I'll have to send it in writing to the minister or to the minister. I know I won't, but it's a little funny, something's here, something's there, and it's gonna have to be arranged in this country for once, so there's not going to be electricity under the Minister of Energy, and there's going to be something under the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u363	Mr Member, I told you – the answer is not possible. I advise you to ask him a written question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u364	Thank you, I will.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u365	Let's move on. Janja Slug will ask the Minister for Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Although the Minister is absent, I will ask for a written answer to the question. The ethics of the public word are in our country — I think we can agree on that — are well established. Of course, this phenomenon is not new, but it has been appearing for quite some time and more or less also anchors in our society. Above all, we can also say in the political space. And unfortunately, as a society, we are still unable to put clear gaps between hate speech and all other acceptable and acceptable forms of communication on the one hand, as well as those unacceptable on the other. While media legislation is very clear, the public interest of the state in the field of media should be supported by those media that are important for the culture of public dialogue in creating and disseminating programming content. The Media Act, in addition to a fundamental declaration of freedom of expression, very clearly prohibits the promotion of inequality and intolerance. It is prohibited to promote national, racial, religious, sexual, or other inequalities, hatred or intolerance by disseminating programming content. What is particularly worrying at least for me is the involvement of state-owned companies in spreading intolerance through advertising in certain specific media. And not just that, we also face the fact that certain media are particularly active in spreading false news and hate speech, namely those media that are owned by certain political parties. In my view, the current situation has exceeded the possibilities of resolving this problem through self-regulatory mechanisms. Unfortunately, we are also reminded of this by citizens and citizens and that they are also very loud and that the competent authorities do not respond to their calls. Thus, at the moment, we have two petitions in the National Assembly, which point to this problem, but unfortunately, the colleague in charge of the petition committee does not seem to be worth considering. This, of course, is not the responsibility of the Minister, but it seems important to me to point out that citizens and citizens are aware of this. I ask the Minister the following questions: How do you comment on or assess the culture of dialogue in the current public and political space? What measures does the Ministry foresee that the state will no longer support the financing of those media which, on the basis of political motivation, spread and promote hatred? Do you support a broader public debate on these important issues that are related to media production of hatred and intolerance?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u367	Thank you very much. You will receive the reply in writing, as you wish. Natasa Sukić will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u368	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is one rare country, if not the only one in the European Union that does not have regulated outdoor advertising. Advertising is essentially the most visible element of modern marketing, without it we can't represent capitalism or neoliberalism anymore, promoting products, marketing products with it. We're literally bombed with ads. Market services, however, are constantly re-inventing some of the new so-called innovative practices, receptions, ways in which we are said to be their potential consumers, to rape as much as possible with their products. We see ads everywhere, they're on the street, even in holes for golf, on fruit, in bars, in toilets, walking around them, passing them. Well, now we get to the point. Last September, a huge black boxed building of a Maribor cinema concert near Drava was dressed in a giant colored pan with a trivial commercial of an international commercial giant. This was one of the more prominent, in fact ordinary, everyday cases of modern advertising. Jumbo cry along the roads, on the fields, various notes, stickers on the pillars, facades, trailers, buses, lights and other images literally blink or shout everywhere in Slovenian landscape, which paradoxically portrays tourists as an unturned pearl of nature. The Society of Maribor architects, of course, reacted immediately and drew attention to this deviant, tasteless and unprofessional intervention into a space that destroys the urban and architectural quality of the building, but no one really responded. No inspection services detected any violations. The matter was blurred, somehow quieted down, and the responsibility was to refer to loose rules and laws. However, such tactics and philosophies continue to allow or permit this intense pollution or environmental confusion. With the posters laughing heavily at, in particular, the top actions of traders and politicians, money and power, it is probably not the wrong conclusion that Slovenia’s unscrupulous advertising will probably continue to swim and choke. Despite the fact that the living environment is an essential part of society and, in fact, its mirror shows its development and its culture. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Will you take action if, at all, you take action in this area? Are you thinking about regulating outdoor advertising, and if so, what measures will you take to prevent these unsavoury, unsavoury interventions? Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u370	Thank you for saying, thank you for asking. In our ministry, we are well aware of this problem, which is really causing a lot of degradation of open space and landscape as well as urban areas. We need to look at this issue in two ways: one is regulation, the other is more difficult is control. I'll light up both eyes. In the new Law on Spatial Planning and in the new Construction Law, much better mechanisms have already been put in place to regulate this area, to improve the image of our cities, settlements and landscapes. By means of the new Law on the Regulation of Space, municipalities have been given the possibility to draw up decrees on the regulation of the image of settlements and landscapes, which are specifically designed to regulate those operations which are simple construction and therefore do not need to obtain a building permit or are not objects at all. For example, green systems, regulating public surfaces, lighting and, of course, advertising. The municipalities may adopt a decree for the entire congregation or for individual areas. In particular, for those areas where these interventions co-form public space, the image of the settlement or the image of the landscape. The decree on regulating the image of settlements and landscapes, indeed, has not yet been adopted by any congregation, but opportunities have been recognized in many congregations. But it's true, it's news. This applies for one and a half years, so we hope that this will change. The municipalities recognised the possibilities that the decree on regulating the image of settlements and landscape makes available and decided to participate in the working group, which will draw up a concrete example of the decree. The working group, which is organised and led by one of the municipal associations, also has active members of our ministry, ZAPS and Urban Institute. Following the conclusion of the work of the Working Group, the Ministry will issue recommendations for the preparation of the decrees as part of the State Spatial Order at the end of 2020. I expect that when the congregations have a clear pattern of how best to prepare such a decision, they will serve more often and more regularly. The State Spatial Order is also a new instrument introduced by the Space Regulation Act. This is a set of rules to be taken into account in the planning and implementation of interventions. The basic rules already lay down the law itself and more detailed rules can be adopted by the Government by a regulation. More detailed rules may be an advantageous basis for granting licences and carrying out interventions to the premises. Guidelines and recommendations are also part of the State Spatial Order. This year the Ministry will publish the first recommendations of the State Spatial Order, namely the typology of buildings, green systems in cities and settlements and regulatory elements and peaceful transport. As we say, control is also important. If our construction inspection really wanted to establish order, I think we'd need about 100 new inspectors. Just enough to imagine how we are fed in this area. However, the new building legislation has given municipalities the authority to carry out inspections of compliance with municipal spatial acts and other regulations over constructions for which no building permit is required, and these are many times precisely the Panamans. This gives the municipalities jurisdiction over a number of interventions to a space that has not been supervised so far and which, despite their technical inadequacy, have a strong impact on urban space and landscape. Of course, there is advertising among them. This is a very meaningful arrangement, since in our system of delimiting powers between the national and local levels of the congregation, those who care about spatial development in their territory are those who are responsible for the orderliness and image of their cities, settlements and open spaces. However, the area of inspection of municipalities makes sense to link up in inter-agency cooperation, which is typical of editorial and other supervisory services and which has proved to be effective in practice. In some municipalities, municipal inspectors have begun to exercise control and, according to our known information, have also removed some illegal advertising facilities. At the same time, the municipalities have warned us that there are cases where advertising facilities should be blacked out for which building permits should be obtained and the removal of which must be ordered by the State Environmental and Space Inspectorate. That is why we plan a joint action of state and municipal inspectors in one or more municipalities in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u372	Thank you. Minister, I understand you're aware of the problem, but I'm afraid only the recommendations will not be enough. Let's just look at the example of the city of Ljubljana, where the philosophy of city management is such that we understand the city more than the city itself, and the excitement is caused by the new sacral building of the Swedish giant Ikea, for example, which is being built in Ljubljana. According to the municipal spatial plan, the Municipality of Ljubljana Ikei has allowed the construction of their typical marking pillar about 50 meters high, which is, say, half the height of the thermal chimney in Mosta, or 10 meters more than the minaret, which has so excited the public. At the top, there will be a three-sided structure, a page 18 meters long. This marking will then be visible from Golovec, from Ljubljana Castle, Šmarne gora, Janč, Kravec, the sharp eye will be detected even by Triglav. We've come so far. Not to mention the light winds sown in the old city center where they grow like mushrooms in the rain. I'm afraid, Minister, that only the recommendations are absolutely not enough, because some mayors will be able to adjust their decisions to their business, not for the good looks of the environment. If this isn't a recent perverted marketing intervention into the environment, then what is it? I'm really curious, Mr. Secretary-General. But is it not political will for something more specific, a law that will also command certain things to the congregations not to allow such perversions, literally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u374	Thank you. As I have said, after the present arrangement, the congregation is in charge of the image of cities, settlements, and landscapes. However, it is important to consider whether we want to go to a national level to ban this or to make a more detailed definition of what is and how it can be advertised. At this point, however, our quarters are covered with three laws, so we are not currently considering or preparing such an arrangement. However, if we implement the established laws through the parliamentary procedure in the coming year, then perhaps in 2021 we can also think this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Of course, I propose that in the National Assembly, however, we focus on this issue, which we are never really talking about, but it would be necessary for all of us to go into the pollution of our environment, our landscapes with a truly excessive flood of advertising boards and all the other covers that I mentioned earlier. I suggest that we focus on this for once in the National Assembly and that in time, when the ministry can do so — I do not say that it must be done immediately — we start working together in this direction somehow. I think it would be right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 21 November 2019, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u378	Thank you so much for saying that. Since there is no minister, I would like an oral response at the next meeting. My question concerns Dr. Jerne Pical. In recent decades, Slovenian education has achieved very good, in fact excellent results, as a result of a thoughtful and prudent and careful and thorough systematic approach to reconstruction. Strong and high-quality and accessible public education is a priority for us in the SAB, so I ask the question that was raised to me last week when I attended the high school of construction teacher of practical subjects at the Central Construction School and Maribor High School. Let me just say that all the teachers were teachers, which breaks the prejudice that construction is the domain of men. These were construction engineers. They asked me the next question. The secondary construction school and Maribor High School as the only school in Slovenia implements the subject of descriptive geometry at the secondary level. In this subject, students upgrade the technical drawing, develop spatial competences and learn the communication and presentation of spatial laws of drawings, and this knowledge is a rich tool in all technical fields. Unfortunately, however, the future of this subject is uncertain, since it is intended to be severely disfigured or even abolished by the State. Let me add that descriptive geometry in Austria and Germany is a compulsory subject in secondary technical education and students in these countries have also been acquiring this knowledge for years. I am a self-educated construction engineer, and I can only confirm the importance of this subject in the learning process. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: How does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport see the future of secondary education as a descriptive geometry, even in the light of maintaining competitiveness and international comparability? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Minister Jernej Pikalo will give you an oral answer at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Primož Siter will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u380	Thank you very much, Mr President. Hello, Mr. Secretary! I'm coming up with one savvy question. The Sava region, this is not a secret, has been at the top of negative statistics in recent years or decades, both on environmental protection and on public health. Of course, years of mining, heavy industry, this story, which we all know well, has brought some infrastructure solutions, some economic development, and has paid its taxes on the environment and on human health. Today we are Zasavčany, at least as far as mortality is concerned due to respiratory disease, far above the Slovenian average. Well, it's not your concern or your department's concern, but it's related to my question. Environmentally, to say the crisis or to this alarming state of public health and the current situation of the environment with which we are facing the Zasavčani has also contributed to a large extent to reckless privatisation, which has cared little about environmental standards in recent decades, has taken profit and has neglected public health and environmental conditions. And now we're where we are. The suction is, I can tell, environmentally impoverished. At first, I'm interested in: Do you, as Minister of the Environment, know the challenges that result from years of mining and heavy industry that Zasavje encounters, which are therefore concerned about the past, and those that are consuming the Savje today, so what are the current ones? How does the Ministry intend to address these environmental challenges? In what way does the Ministry strategically approach the comprehensive solution of this long-term Sava region? How does the Ministry's strategy for addressing these problems reflect either the Paris Agreement, a serious global document, or details of addressing, solving environmental problems under your coalition contract? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u382	If you allow me, I will not turn to Zasavje, because the regions and areas you have in Slovenia are not missing at all, the consequences of past burdens are visible throughout Slovenia. Therefore, my plan is as soon as next year, when we put under the roof a change to the Environmental Protection Act, as far as waste is concerned, to draft a new law on environmental protection, where we are going to do just that, recovery in the past of contaminated areas. One of the problems that we face today when we want to repair such areas is that, for the first time, recovery lasts for a very long time, secondly, such recovery is actually very expensive. And since we depend on annual arrangements to allocate resources when we draw up a budget, it is difficult to plan such rehabilitation. That is why the idea we have at the Ministry of the Environment is, of course, to deal with the Ministry of Finance, given that we have an integral budget in Slovenia and in principle avoid funds. But given that our ministry is already in charge of the dedicated fund, in fact, we want to change or further determine that the current climate fund is being upgraded and that part of the environmental benefits to this fund go to the target area of rehabilitation in the past of contaminated areas, to which Zasavje also belongs. In this way, we would have achieved that such measures, which are long - lasting and expensive, could in fact be planned and driven over the years, with confidence or funding provided. Today, we have the problem of being dependent on every budget – for example, in the past, the Order for the Valley of Mezizi has always ceased. We also had a hard time implementing measures because once there were funds, and secondly there were no measures. This is what I want to avoid in the future with this new law coming. Otherwise, we are already funding actions through climate funds in Zasavje. As far as the air is concerned, the biggest challenge currently lies in the small combustion plant. To this end, we give as much or the largest part of the climate fund as possible, I think 30 million, if I remember correctly from the head, we are committed to this and there is also a good part of this funding in Zasavje. In fact, the long - term small combustion plants and the improper burning or preparation of trees today are causing, not just in Zasavje, but elsewhere, the biggest problems with the air itself. I believe that when these measures, which we will continue to implement over the years, will be implemented, the air will be better. However, if we are able to fix and here in Parliament also confirm this law that we will have a permanent item for rehabilitation, then we can hope that we can put in place programmes in both Celje and Mežiški valley, in you and in Ljubljana, because we also have degraded areas here, which will have secured funding and will be able to run smoothly through longer periods. Because it is necessary to realize that this kind of rehabilitation lasts and is expensive. Not only in us, but also in other countries where they're doing this, they're talking about very wonderful millions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u384	Thank you very much. There are two major challenges in Zasavje. One is the past, which has left behind environmental degradation, health degradation, through privatisation, economic and social disintegration, but this is not the only problem. The problem is the things that are being done there today. We have, in addition to what you have found, small combustion plants have three key challenges. One is the degraded surface of the Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik, another is the use of these and some other land for landfills of dangerous electro-filter ash in the middle of the city, and then here we have disturbing news that Lafarge Cement, a cement plant that has 15 years of capture of curves, formal and environmental, opens its doors again. These are the current challenges we are facing today. These are not economic projects they are trying to sell to us or development opportunities for the region, these are threats. These are environmental and health threats. And now I'm interested in specifics. If you have been flattened, or should I say so, you have responded at the level of the country, I am interested in it specifically. I'm asking you: Does the Ministry know whether you as a minister know what is happening in these specific areas? Do you know Arso and the Environment and Space Inspectorate, or do you just look away, as you have seen in the past? Is the cement story repeating itself? What's your general comment on that? Does the Ministry have a strategy to address these problems? Will the amendment of the Law on Environmental Protection address this? Do you realize the risks that come from stalling these problems? What local stakeholders in this area are the Ministry of Environment and Space talking or are they willing to talk, such as activists, local communities, professions or possibly the economy again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u386	Thank you. As far as the ashes are concerned, it's about storing ashes before further processing or use at the HSE site — that's what you mean, isn't it? This is not a deposit because they do not have a deposit permit, but only for storage, for as long as it does not go into the further use of treated waste. As waste collectors, the Ministry’s decision to register collectors for this type of waste must be taken. However, it is previously allowed to store waste not more than 12 months after their collection, and their quantity must not exceed the amount of waste that the collector may store at the same time in the collection centre in accordance with its capacity. We sent an inspection there. The inspection was carried out 25. Seven. 2019. It was then found that electro-filter ash from Energetics Ljubljana was previously stored on facility A and covered with plastic foil. Based on the waste collection plan and the registration certificate for collectors — this is a certificate with a number that I will not read now — of 29. 1. For the collection of waste with classification numbers 10 01 01 and 10 01 02 and 10 01 03, HSE – Trbovlje Energy Company can only store waste within facilities of a total quantity of 3 000 tonnes. The company started receiving electro-filter ash from Energetics Ljubljana on 23. Seven. 2019, nine trucks were brought in in total 106 thousand 700 kilograms. The acceptance of the electro-filter ash was suspended from 25. Seven. 2019. No processing or disposal is allowed at that location. Only prior storage of waste for a period not exceeding 12 months is allowed. Inspection of the environment and nature of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space was last completed by 7. 8. 2019 when it was verified that the debtor complied with the requirements of the inspection decision prohibiting pre-storage in the open and removal of the electro-filter ash from the uncontained area. The debtor has fulfilled the obligations set out in the decision. The problem arose when a problem arose in Termite, and then they drove to Trbovje. For this reason, we had two meetings with Energetics Ljubljana with a view to resolving the problems of further management of these wastes, namely 13. 8 and 9. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u388	Thank you very much, Mr President. One fact that each layhead understands is that Zasavje at least this central part of Slovenia treats it as a dump, one forgotten square, where all the insurrection is placed and where this can be well tolerated. Ljubljana is beautiful – you said for yourself, “we throw electro-filter paper from Ljubljana into Zasavje”. Because it can be done there, because everything is already destroyed and “it can be done”. But here we have more things than just this ash. We have degraded surfaces of RTH, in the Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik we have only confused for rehabilitation in the previous year 3 million, and in the past years, I don't know, 25 or 28 million. And now there's nothing there. We have a warehouse of electro-filter ash, you can call it a warehouse or a dump, where these trucks drive, unprotected people watch and wonder what's going on. If this is "inside objects", terminology – I can explain to you what "inside objects" means. One, like in the Rippers, we say, hoff under the hill where all this stuff goes. People take pictures and shoot. You can take a look around. And we have a hazardous waste incinerator. The most perverse environmental story of the past 15 years – Lafarge Cement, who used politics, exploited the local community. In the end, when the curves could no longer be caught, they quickly pulled — who? Workers. They closed the door and they stayed on the road. This is the story of Zasavje – three dramatic scenarios. And at the top of this, the garlic on the cake, we have a minister, sorry, with all due respect, who doesn't know what's going on, we have a ministry that has no idea what's really going on, we have Arso, we have an inspectorate where they either don't know or they're looking away, because they're getting paid off, we have an unresponsive government in this area, we have a degraded Savvy and a government that doesn't do anything. I see no other way than that the National Assembly here serves as a kick in the ass of the government and at least conducts a debate on this subject. Since this question is not essentially succulent, Zasavje is here, as you yourself said, one of the areas, is only a general. With the same ignorance, politics can attack Pomurje, White Krajina, Crassus, anyone. The suction or any part of the country will be a dump, but Ljubljana will remain beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 21 November 2019, in the framework of the votes. Željko Cigler will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u390	Your Honor, thank you very much. I'm going to talk about another degraded area, and this is the Shale Valley. A few hours ago, a Member of Parliament had already talked about this. In fact, last week there was a consultation on climate agreement in the National Assembly, and the Saturday Annex also made clear to Slovenian scientists that it is necessary to take action without delay to prevent an even worse climate crisis. Part of the third development axis, which will go from Velenje to Slovenj Gradec, and before that, seriously interferes with forests and agricultural land in Slovenia. I'm asking questions. Mr. Minister Zajc, I'm interested in: How is the protection of Šostanja and neighbouring Velenje prepared, these are degraded areas for me, as well as other places in the Shaleska Valley for the embodiment and watering of lignitopo? The same problem was raised by a Member who warned that there is a desolate landfill of highly toxic, hazardous waste from the Vrhnika leather industry and are subject to the same process. I also want to know: Is an evacuation plan designed for the entire area prior to the uncontrolled sinking of surrounding areas and buildings? How are the damage to the goods area on which the fast road runs along the current route taken into account by the tilt of the layer according to the very narrowly engraving area of the lignitotop? Look, I've got a drawing of a fast road going actually over the mine, over the land that's collapsing. And secondly, the state road project is planned through the Ugresin field of lignitotopa, where the layers are non-bearable and sit due to the consequences of decades of intensive mining at a depth of hundreds of meters. I have Google maps of lakes expanding, especially in Scotland, and how lakes are deepening. All of this is not without consequences. Dear Minister Alenka Bratušek, I ask you: What assurance have they made that the cost of repairing the consequences of mining will not burden Dars and that consequently they will not follow the increase of tolls, prices of vineyards and additional public debt for the third development axis in this part, to which the Members of several parties warned you at the first reading of the guarantee law? Can you explain to me how we can have four lanes of forest and agricultural land in Koroška for 9,000 vehicles and two lanes in Dolenjska for more than 20,000 vehicles? I don't understand. This case is recorded in the guarantee law. Please, because I don't understand it if it can be further explained to me. I also ask: Madam Minister, why don't you respond to the anomaly cited by the guarantee law itself on the central and southern parts of the third development axis? This is for Dolenjska, where it literally states that, I quote, “there was also a version of the variants studied in the study through the current road with partial reconstruction of bottlenecks and phase and phase construction”. End of story. The study of options should also include exploring the possibility of upgrading existing links.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u391	Thank you very much. The Minister and the Minister have a total of five minutes. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u392	Thank you. I'm going to have to ask you if you agree to have me answer you in writing. In fact, you have made a very general announcement about the issue, but you have gone into very detailed and very local. So that I can give you a quality answer, I would like to ask you if I can answer you in writing, please. But for the future, it would really help if you could tell at least a little more about what you're going to ask us that we can prepare because it's such a broad topic. You stated: environmental aspects of the guarantee law. But I don't know the details of every thing, so if you agree, we'll send you a written answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u394	I will add that for each part of this third development axis a national spatial plan is adopted. Thus, everyone involved and probably must also take into account the aspects that you are referring to. And that's why I told your colleague earlier that when we make a dot at some section, we probably can't always and always and always do it over and over again. We are now dealing with this work, which could already, at least on paper, be completed and we could speed up work on other sections of the third development axis. The third axis is not only the road from Velenje to Šentrupert, but it is from Koroška to White Krajina. The matter has not yet been fully resolved, I said it before, it's also happening in the southern part, but that's how these things are and are running. There is not yet a final agreement for the south either, or a two- or four-passenger. This is also why it is difficult at this point to determine who is the investor and who will lead certain things forward. Studies are still under way to determine how to proceed. In the past, they decided that this road would be four lanes. I doubt that it will now be possible, even you, honourable Member, to convince people that they will now be content to correct the existing road. This one will be very difficult for me. Once again, as far as specific issues are concerned, all these issues must be raised during the process when the road is specifically placed in a place where the State Spatial Plan is being drawn up when the building permit is being obtained – all the issues must definitely be resolved at that time. That's why, after all, obtaining a building permit is an administrative procedure where everyone participates. I can't tell you anything else right now. I certainly add again, the third axis is our high priority. And if we do not look to the future and work to come as soon as possible with solutions concretely to the White Land, and we will keep busy and return to the solutions that have been confirmed – and I have no reason not to believe that they are professionally confirmed – if we do so, then our infrastructure will not even be carried over to the White Land. So we're going to be able to sort things out in about 50 years. For all that the Minister has said he will answer you in writing, but I am almost firmly convinced that he is going through all these clearance procedures. There are a lot of these procedures, a lot of consensus needs to be gained, and I find it hard to believe that any of the things you mentioned could fall out and not be dealt with. But it is a mine issue, closing the mine is also one of the tasks of the Ministry of Infrastructure that we are dealing with. It's not a project from today to tomorrow, but it's a project we're working on. Even in the context of the closure of the mine, there will be a number of parts that you mentioned about going to the lake to do something else, and it must have been addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u396	Thank you very much. Your Honor, none of you have answered me. I've pointed out serious problems and serious problems. When the landfill of hazardous waste was previously warned, it was said that this is the problem of Velenje Mine because it lies there. It can be a national disaster, I'm sorry. This is a very polluted waste! Another time. I'd like to say this. I said that the road is going – Madam Minister, I will give you a map to see exactly – over the mine where things are falling. That's why it's gonna be a dangerous road. A key error, I also said, in the study of the options for fast roads you have provided us, is that the possibility of upgrading the existing road has also not been taken into account, which is what the guarantee law now says has been done for other parts of the third development axis. This is its expansion, straightening out the curves, making the tunnel through the awful hole, and so on. This was proposed in 2011 by a government inter-ministerial working group. This road would have been the same fast, significantly smaller environment, long ago built. That's what I'm telling you. And despite the possible loss of already invested in the wrong choice when revealing the past mistakes that we are presenting to you through here, I am also telling you about them through, it is not permissible to continue on the wrong grounds without re-examination of the current possibilities and circumstances. And there's something else I'd like to say, Mr. Secretary. Your ministry put all these routes into space. You can't say you're going to study and you don't know what's going on. These are the serious problems we are alerting us to, cannot be questioned and cannot be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u398	Dear Member, I think this is the third time we've been working on this topic. I don't have a problem. We'll do it every time. Now you said yourself, the ILO was doing impact assessments and something else to do with it. I find it hard to believe, but don't mind me if I sound like you're the only expert who knows where the third development axis from Velenje to the highway should go. I'm sorry, but if the experts have done this, as they have done – we can go again 10 years ago, but I have also proposed to you a hundred times that you give the National Assembly a decision to take a new course. And we will see if the Members are for this, if not, but I have no argument to say, but now we will stop the project, and now we are not going to do this anymore, and now we are going to return the country 10 years ago, because Mr Cigler says we need to find out how many options. I can't trust others as experts in this area. I can't because it would be irresponsible of me. I didn't set the route, I didn't draw the route, and I don't know why I should believe you now that what you're suggesting is more professional. Then there will be another pass, and another pass, and a third pass, and we are at the beginning or in a vicious circle, so that Mrs Tomić, who previously asked me about the second part, will be next in about 50 years. It's not responsible. It is really not responsible if we have a profession, we have procedures, and you yourself have said that the ILO has cooperated through all these procedures. And if the ILO experts, who are very strict in the vast majority of cases, are now missing something here, okay, but I think they usually warn us more than they might have had to. Once again, honourable Member, honestly, suggest that the third development axis project be stopped and that we go looking for routes from the beginning, including this option. And that's also the option, let's just take one step forward, not let us always compete here, who's more right. None of this is actually going to happen, but at least the people who have been waiting for this road for 20 years or 30 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have more than half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u400	For this State Spatial Plan, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment has been carried out in accordance with the rules governing environmental protection and assessing the acceptability of the impact of the implementation of plans on protected areas in accordance with the rules governing nature conservation. The environmental aspects were assessed as part of the assessment of alternatives in a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. It was found that there are environmentally acceptable multiple variants, after optimizing the proposed option, the procedure was completed by a decision on the acceptability of the environmental impact of the plan. At the ILO, Ars, environmental consensus was also issued for this section. Such procedures have been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u402	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I will request a hearing in the National Assembly on these matters. That's all I want to say. Whenever we discuss it, I would like to tell you that so far you have not answered any of my substantive questions. But I repeat only things that have always been exposed to the profession that has been overheared. The fact that the expert arguments were not taken into account, I also told the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, where you were also present. Today several new ones were mentioned again. You just say it and always say, "I didn't do it." On the contrary. You are the Minister of Infrastructure, who is now responsible for the project that you are setting up, which you want to implement, and these comments and reminders need to be responded to in order to verify and provide a substantive response. That's what you, as Minister, have to answer and do. Otherwise, I don't know why we have ministers if Members are supposed to be the ones who have to prove and don't know what amount of data to suggest that one route for which a lot of expert opinions have been made is not right. For various reasons it is not checked and examined why the existing route cannot be updated and modernised. As I have told you several times before, the inter-resort working body, which was actually set up by the Government, was established in 2011. The matter was much cheaper, it would have stood up long ago, and especially it would not have interfered with the forests, the agricultural land and the demolition of the home. And for such projects, Slovenia will certainly not receive credit and financial support in the European Union. That's what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 21 November 2019, in the framework of the votes. We reached number 61 when Violeta Tomić asked the Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u404	Thank you for your word, chairman. The last question sent at this meeting is addressed to the Minister of Health. Indeed, on 8 November, the Minister-designate, the Ministry, submitted a supplementary proposal to the Government for a Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs. This proposal, while transferring four substances to Slovenian legislation that have been classified by the United Nations Commission for Drugs at this regular March session in the list of internationally regulated psychoactive substances. In this amendment to the Regulation, however, we still do not see the correction in another group of illicit drugs where the hemp plant is still on the list under order 120. Jože Hren from the Ministry of Health is already at the emergency meeting of the Health Committee 7. Ten. 2016 warned that we do not have an official translation of the 1961 Convention on Drugs and that they requested that the unofficial version of the translation be withdrawn from the public publication and also from the application. Juret Gasparic's reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the 12th meeting of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Drugs suggests that the hemp plant has been introduced into the Regulation on the basis of the incorrect informal translation of key parts of the Convention. Because Article 9 of the PPPD clearly states that besides poppy for industrial purposes it is also allowed to grow hemp plants. At the same time, it is on the list of illicit drugs and, on the other hand, the hemp plant can be grown even for nutritional purposes. In order to clarify one of the fundamental problems that this classification poses in practice, I should mention only Article 11 of the Road Traffic Rules Act. This suggests that the Minister of Health, i.e. you, also define a list of illicit drugs. As the hemp plant itself is among the illicit drugs listed in that Regulation, only metabolites that are not psychoactive may be identified during the review of the transport participants, which is totally unacceptable. These too can be found in hemp tea or hemp bread. This classification helps to harm citizens daily, which should have been abolished by the Ministry of Health in 2016, and has not yet been eliminated. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, On the basis of what or what official document and decision did you adopt the terminology and classification of the hemp plant, Cannabis sativa, into the list of illicit drugs in the regulation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u406	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. The field of illicit drugs at international level is governed by the United Nations Conventions, the Single Convention on Drugs of 1961, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 and the Convention against the Illicit Traffic in Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988. In 1992, Slovenia transposed this Convention by means of an act of succession to international treaties into its legal order and thus committed itself to their implementation. The Single Convention on Drugs in its 39th Article and the Convention against the Illicit Traffic in Drugs and Psychotropic Substances in its 14th Article commits, inter alia, to the implementation of measures necessary to protect public health and prevent illicit cultivation of plants such as opium poppy, coca bush and hemp. The State shall, when ratifying the Convention, be obliged to respect its provisions and, in accordance with the recommendations of the Convention, shall have the right to adopt a stricter regime than that required. Slovenia provided for these articles to take into account and regulate the traffic in hemp in 1999 in the Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs. The terminology and classification of the hemp plant are in accordance with this law. The Ministry of Health is responsible for drug legislation. Based on the decisions of the Council of the European Union and the United Nations Commission on Drugs and Occupational Initiatives, the professional services shall draw up a proposal to supplement or amend the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In preparing these changes, the Ministry shall cooperate with experts from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, the National Institute for Public Health and the Police and, for example, in the case of the transfer of cannabis to another group, experts from different medical professions. The Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2016-2019, the following ministries or institutions participated in the preparation of this document: Ministry of Health, Ministry of the Interior, Police, Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, National Forensic Laboratory, National Institute for Public Health, National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, Agency for Transport Safety. Members of the Early Warning System also participated in the development of new psychoactive substances, in addition to most of the above mentioned representatives of the Institute of Forensic Medicine, the Centres for Toxicity UKC Ljubljana, the Faculty of Pharmacy and representatives of some NGOs. From 2016 to today, the Ministry’s professional services have prepared five additions or amendments. In Slovenia, industrial hemp can be grown for industrial and nutritional purposes in accordance with the Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs allowing such use of hemp. For these purposes, only those varieties of hemp classified on the European variety list containing less than 0,2 % THC may be cultivated in accordance with European Union legislation. Such legal arrangements allow countries, including Slovenia, to grow cannabis as traditional plants, of course without undesirable psychotropic effects. Let me re-emphasize. The Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs is adopted by the Government, not the Commission for Drugs. Bupropion was accidentally transferred to the first group during the preparation of the regulation, which would mean that the medicinal product could no longer be used in medicine. Hemp was transferred to another group in 2017 to be used in medicine and is still considered as a illicit drug due to THC content. Despite the fact that all parts of this plant have no psychoactive effects, we are not in breach of the Conventions with such arrangements. With regard to the translation of the Single Convention on Drugs, I wish to clarify that in the official working processes of the Ministry of Health, an informal translation of the Single Convention on Drugs of 1961 has never been used. The legislation adopted in 1992 is applicable in the National Assembly and is in accordance with our legal order as transposed by the Conventions. The initiative of representatives of non-governmental organisations for official translation was first considered by the Commission on Drugs, which proposed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prepare a translation. As you know, the Health Committee at its 11th emergency meeting this year called on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to prepare an official translation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u408	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, your officials have written you these answers very nicely, but you are speaking on the basis of some documents that are not at all available. In Slovenia, the working language is Slovenian. And if there's no translation on the basis of what all these laws are, I'm asking you nicely. Since I was running out of time, you answered my remaining questions very quickly. I want to know: Who, please, at the Ministry of Health was specifically responsible in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 for preparing these supplements or amendments relating to the classification of illicit drugs in the Regulation? How many additions or amendments related to the classification of illicit drugs in the said Regulation have you entered into the government procedure since 7. Ten. 2016 to today? How do you explain the disagreement that, under Article 9 of the PDOPD, hemp plants can be grown for industrial and nutritional purposes while, on the basis of Article 3 of the PDOPD, hemp is classified as a plant in another group of illicit drugs? Why has the Ministry of Health on the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not yet tabled a proposal to withdraw the hemp plant from the regulation, as did the bupropion at the 12th meeting of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Drugs, as mentioned earlier? Can you please explain when the incorrect translation of the 1961 Convention on Drugs was sent to and to whom? Who prepared the positions of Slovenia for the UNODC, the United Nations CSD, which will be in Vienna? What are these views, and who is in this delegation? For the Commission should prepare its views for drugs, but which has not met for five years. Please explain that to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u409	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u410	Thank you for your word. I would like a lot of information from the honourable Member. As for the names of the Ministry that have been in charge of this area for all these years, we will, of course, provide them to you in writing. I don't have them right now. Next, you were wondering how many additions were made at that time. If you have listened to me carefully, I also told you in the first reply that the Ministry’s professional services have prepared five additions or amendments since 2016. What is the position and who has been preparing the position of the Republic of Slovenia, we will also provide you in writing, as I do not currently have this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u411	Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u412	Thank you. I think we need to have a serious discussion on this issue, and I therefore suggest that we discuss this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the next meeting. For this is a grave violation of human rights. Patients' rights, stigmatizations, closures, and you know, I would be very concerned if you were the minister of your department, and if you saw on the Erar.si portal that a high official who thinks about this – this time we will not be about names, see – your espa, where the Ministry of Health and the Public Transport Safety Agency are among the top payers. Please take a look at what's really going on. And I would also like to know who will take responsibility for the civil society actions already under way. For as far as I know, they collect all the cases – it is impossible, you know, to allow food on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to stop people for metabolites because they ate bread a few days ago. You know, there are things here that are unacceptable. Why do your officials have espaes, where they also receive fees from the Public Agency for Transport Safety and the Ministry of Health? But here I would look for the answers to the questions I have asked you, and here you are, as Minister, personally responsible. Journalists are already talking, you can read, “Pharmaceutical route to the official drive.” Officials who simply violate the human rights of users stigmatize patients, you are right in your department. And simple legislation is not harmonised. At one end of Slovenia is something just a crime, where people have to But do you know how much money is spent chasing these poor people? [[…]] Instead of prosecuting actual criminals and criminals, the police, the judiciary, the prosecution, prosecute offenders who can only use industrial hemp. CBD, which is not psychoactive at all, would like to be synthetic at your ministry right now. Let me ask some experts. I didn't, but I talked to them a lot. What's going on, you know, is a red alarm that's going to crash in your ministry if you don't look down and see who's giving you advice and what's doing. I demand a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u413	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 21 November 2019, in the framework of the votes. Finally, I thank the President of the Government, ministers and ministers for the answers given. With this adjournment of the 1st item of the agenda, we will continue the meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
