ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Jani Prednik, Violeta Tomić, Luka Mesec, Dr. Franz Runk from 12 o'clock on, mag. Carmen Furman, Dr. Anže Logar, Jožef Horvat, Jan Mahnic, Boštjan Koražija by 10 a.m. and Mrs Iva Dimic. So we're going to move on to 2. On the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Security Before Ionising Sevents and Nuclear Safety, the procedure being terminated. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Prijon, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! After more than a year from the entry into force of the new law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, the need to amend the law appeared. The main amendments and additions proposed by this amendment relate to the security verification of foreign nationals working in a nuclear facility, the handling of radioactive substances or the transport of nuclear substances. The amendment we are considering today completely amends Article 155 of the Law, which regulates the security review procedure for foreign citizens to a large extent in a materially related manner as laid down for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The new Article excludes the current competence of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to protect classified data for the purpose of carrying out security checks on foreign nationals. The safety check shall be arranged by means of the proposal by the employer in whom the person will be employed or for whom he or she will perform his or her work, the carrier or the transport operator collects the prescribed certificates and, together with the proposal for security clearance, submits them to the Ministry of the Interior, which shall, on the basis of the data contained in its records, the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency, the Ministry of Defence and Police Intelligence Intelligence Service, and after carrying out the verification, issue a decision to determine whether or not the audited person poses a risk to the nuclear safety of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the amended Article 155, it was necessary to supplement Article 3, paragraphs 107 and 108, paragraphs 150 in the second and fourth paragraphs, points 151 in the first, third and fourth paragraphs, and points 41 in 181. The proposed amendment also introduces a few minor changes, where the main issue is the elimination of dictionary errors and false convocations and the terminology of harmonisation of the text of the law. We propose that the National Assembly support amendments to the law, as the amendments are intended to address the minor shortcomings that have emerged during the application of the applicable law; with a view to ensuring greater security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 7th session. 4. 2019 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety and the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments to Articles 2 and 12 of the Coalition's coalition groups and amendments to the amendments of the coalition group committee to Articles 6, 7, 8 and 13 were tabled within the time limit. On behalf of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space provided additional explanations. He pointed out that the amendment of the law was necessary as the current regime for the security verification of foreign nationals, which entered into force in early 2018, proved to be inappropriate. In particular, Article 155 of the Act and certain related articles are the subject of the amendment. The amendment of the law will allow for a more comprehensive security review of foreign citizens who will work in a nuclear facility and provide an even higher level of security. He also explained that other amendments were mainly editorial corrections and the terminology of harmonisation of the text of the law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that most of their comments were taken into account by amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and by proposals for amendments to the Committee. With regard to the remaining comments, the Ministry of Environment and Space provided additional clarifications. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill and has no comments on it. In a short discussion, several questions were raised by the Slovenian National Party Group on the subject of security checks on foreign citizens, the structures of foreign citizens working at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the physical protection of the transport of radioactive substances abroad and the transport of fuel to the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Representatives of the Government made further clarifications on these issues. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the amendments tabled and then on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the Committee's position. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Sonibo Knezak, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, which we have previously discussed on the Home Committee, focuses mainly on the amendment of Article 155 of the Act. This talks about the security verification of foreign nationals who will carry out various works on and in the nuclear facility of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant in the future, in the management of radioactive substances and in the transport of nuclear materials. A new law is needed because the arrangements we now have are inadequate. Even non-executiveness has been established in the current practice of Article 155. This amendment will allow for a more comprehensive security review of foreign citizens while ensuring an adequate level of security. For the law brings solutions that will, on the one hand, satisfy all the security requirements that are necessary. On the other hand, they will allow the implementation of the verification procedure to be carried out without difficulty. The proposed method of carrying out the security verification of foreign nationals is agreed between all stakeholders in the process, and the latter will also be practical and acceptable to all from this point of view. The employer will therefore have to collect all necessary certificates, documentation, completed security questionnaires and a proposal for security verification for his employee or worker, who, as his subcontractor, will perform any work on the nuclear facility, and will then submit all the documentation collected to the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia. However, on the basis of the data obtained by the Ministry of Defence, Police, Security Intelligence Agency and the Service, the Ministry will determine whether the person who works at the nuclear facility poses a potential threat or risk. As the bill brings implementation improvements while at the same time increasing the level of security, we will support the bill in the Social Democrats' Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Gregor Perič has the floor on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u8	President, representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues, everyone! The aim of ionising radiation protection is to minimise damage to human health due to exposure to such radiation and to reduce radioactive contamination of the living environment. The blood and current law governing the protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety was adopted in December 2017 and, in addition to adequate protection against ionising radiation, provides the legal basis for the development, production and use of radiation sources and the implementation of radiation activities. The law regulates the implementation of nuclear and radiation safety measures for the source of radiation intended for nuclear energy production; as far as the use of nuclear goods is concerned, as well as specific safeguards. Today, we have a new bill on the paper, which deals mainly with the security verification of foreign citizens. They will work in a nuclear facility, in the management of radioactive substances or in the transport of nuclear materials. In practice, the existing security verification procedure for foreign nationals who carry out their work in our nuclear power plant has proved to be time-consuming and presents a considerable administrative burden for foreign security authorities. I would therefore like to highlight at this point what the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Space has also explained on the home committee, not to simplify procedures, but to optimise them. So the level of verification is maintained, only the method of verification changes. About 600 people are permanently employed at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, and this number increases to about 2 000 during renovations. Workers who work in our nuclear power plant at the time of renovation come from companies that are qualified to perform specific tasks in the field of expertise. And these companies have a place abroad. Since the renovation in the nuclear power plant will take place in October this year and the renovations will be repeated for 18 months, it is essential to ensure effective and optimal procedures for the security verification of all those working in the nuclear power plant at that time. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we welcome the meaningful adaptation of the procedure for the security verification of foreign citizens, which is why we will also support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Nataša Sukić has the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The current law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety was adopted in 2017. The law regulates the protection against ionising radiation in order to reduce harm to human health when exposed to radiation and to reduce radioactive contamination of the living environment. The law regulates the implementation of nuclear and radiation safety measures and the use of nuclear goods as well as specific safeguards. It also lays down the different competences of the Nuclear Safety Authority and the Radiation Protection Authority of the Ministry of the Interior and the Inspectorate of the Interior for the implementation of the provisions of this Act and for the supervision. The Act, adopted in 2017, maintained the existing regime for the security verification of foreign nationals carrying out or carrying out work in a nuclear facility, in the management of radioactive substances and in the transport of nuclear substances. In practice, it has proved to be a very long-term safety review procedure for foreign national security authorities, since it is almost the same security clearance procedure as it is carried out for persons who have access to classified data in their workplaces. The question of the meaning of such verification is raised as it is for workers who have no business access to classified information. The amendment of the law that we are considering today eliminates inadequacies, some senseless previous arrangements and allows for a more comprehensive security review of foreign citizens, ensures an adequate level of security covering security checks in the countries whose nationals are checked persons, and data on security concerns from the records of competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the amendments mentioned above, some spelling or dictionary corrections are included and editorial corrections are included in the amendment, as well as terminology harmonisation of the provisions of the law. If I withdraw, the amendment in question involves technical corrections that allow for a more efficient and meaningful way of ensuring the security of foreign nationals performing or carrying out work at a nuclear facility, handling radioactive substances and transporting nuclear substances. At the same time, this novel improves the understanding of the current law, so in Levica we will not oppose the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Amendments to the law shall govern the security verification of foreign nationals performing various tasks related to nuclear facilities or the management of radioactive substances. The legislative and security requirements shall be simplified accordingly so as to meet the actual security risk. Article 155 of the Law on the Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety currently in force for all those performing work in the security-controlled nuclear facility areas, dealing with radioactive substances or transporting nuclear substances, requires the verification of the level of confidentiality data at least confidential and the security checks are carried out by national security authorities. There are two problems. For foreign nationals, the security review procedure shall be carried out by national security authorities, which is extremely long-term, and shall take up to 12 months. This makes it difficult for economic operators and contracting entities to operate normally, such as regular renovations, a large number of contracts and the like. People who will work at nuclear facilities will in fact not have access to classified data and therefore do not need permission to do so. The amendment of the law governs the procedure for the security verification of persons performing work in nuclear facilities in order to determine whether or not the verified person poses a risk to the nuclear safety of the Republic of Slovenia. The security check shall be carried out by the Slovenian intelligence and security authorities. It is important for economic operators to be allowed to operate normally, while providing adequate security mechanisms for the nuclear safety of the country. New Slovenia will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you for your position. There's a MEP with a word. Andrej Reich on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us introduces a number of changes. It is true that most of the changes in editorial nature and address minor shortcomings such as terminology mismatches or typographical errors are ahead of us, as we believe in the Alenka Bratušek Party, also a change of significantly greater importance that will facilitate the performance of maintenance works. The amendment to Article 155 will, in practice, speed up the verification process for foreign nationals carrying out specific tasks on nuclear facilities. And since such tasks are of a sensitive nature, it is only right that we examine foreign citizens before the work is done properly. It is also right to do so within reasonable timeframes and reasonable scope. The regulation has so far imposed that a foreign national is required to have access to classified information for the purpose of working in a nuclear facility or in the handling of radioactive substances or in the transport of nuclear materials. In fact, the worker never had access to or needed such information for his work. Article 155 was so preposterous. It has made it difficult and prolonged the verification process of foreign nationals and has had a negative impact on economic activity and it has to be amended as soon as possible. The need to improve Article 155 is also demonstrated by the fact that all stakeholders agreed to the rigidity of the existing arrangements. The fact that a thousand 800 workers participated in the last renovation, a significant proportion of which were foreign workers, tells us about the complications caused by an unreasonable provision. If only a few ten workers were needed for repair work, the issue would not be problematic; but the numbers are much higher. The longevity of the procedure and thus the negative impact on the implementation of the work processes. In such important matters as the safety of a nuclear facility, we cannot afford to be affected by the inadequate provision on updates that increase safety and security of installations. Therefore, there is no doubt about this, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the novel of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, which entered into force only in early 2018. It is therefore surprising that we are working so quickly to change the law, especially in the work where the change concerns the security verification of foreign citizens who will work in a nuclear facility, in the management of radioactive substances or in the transport of nuclear materials. We would expect the law to be put into inter-departmental coordination before being submitted to the parliamentary procedure in order to see what could be an obstacle to the enforcement of the law. The fact that security checks are a long-term process is known by all those who have ever gone through this process, therefore they would expect the competent services to give timely warning that this procedure should be properly regulated. The current arrangements for the security verification of foreign nationals in the sense of verifying the data set out for obtaining access to classified data at least confidential has soon proved inappropriate. Above all, it has caused foreign national security authorities to ask, in response to a significant increase in the security verification of foreign nationals in a very short time, why are their nationals being checked after procedures for accessing classified information, if they do not generally access classified data in their work at the relevant Slovenian facilities. Thus, the amendment of the law proposes a solution that relies to a good extent on the system applicable to domestic workers working in nuclear facilities and is reportedly in line with all stakeholders involved, while at the same time meeting the safety requirements and allowing the normal implementation of the procedure. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal as we are aware that by insisting on a long-term safety review of the Krka nuclear power plant, further problems can arise. According to our assessment, it has enough nuclear waste storage since the Republic of Croatia as a semi-owner Avoids responsibility when it should take care of waste in the same proportion as the Republic of Slovenia does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you, President. I come from Posavje myself, more specifically from Krskov, where we have a nuclear power plant Krška. As many citizens and citizens, I am aware that the safety of such a facility as the Krška Nuclear Power Plant is the first to avoid a disaster. But it's up to us to sort something out in this direction. As we are aware, the subject of the amendment of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety is primarily Article 155 and several articles relating to it. There is a problematic security check on foreign citizens working in a nuclear facility such as renovations and handling radioactive substances or transporting nuclear waste. In practice, the current security review regime has proved to be an extremely long-term procedure, which is 12 months or more than those performed in those persons who, in their work, will have access to classified data in a confidential manner. In order to prevent greater economic damage as a result of inconsistent implementation of the safety check or easier operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, and in view of the fact that foreign nationals do not access secret data in their work in the nuclear facility, in the handling of the ARAO substances or in their transport in principle, the amendment of the law we have on the table proposes a solution. The latter relies largely on the system applicable to domestic workers working in nuclear facilities. In this way, the employer will collect the required certificates and submit them to the Ministry of the Interior together with the completed questionnaire and the proposal for security checks. The law thus lays down in Article 149 specific areas where only domestic or foreign persons for whom there are no security concerns may work. As we know, this was one of the positions of the Co-ordination Committee on the Interstate Commission for the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. I must say that I have received quite a few questions from the citizens, or we accept this in order to better regulate the demands of the Croatian side so that their companies can work more for the needs of the nuclear power plant. Furthermore, security checks are not required for all works such as the driver, in the kitchen, for the transport of fuel oil and administrative matters carried out at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The basic objective is therefore to prevent the diversion of nuclear material or of any prohibited operation in a nuclear facility. The proposed amendment of the law also obliges a foreign employer to obtain information on possible security concerns from the records of the Slovenian security authorities. Security checks on foreign citizens will also be faster and more effective, which will have a positive impact on the economy. In doing so, they will carry out the security checks on their employees in a timely manner, which is extremely important during regular renovations. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, because we believe that such a procedure is necessary to ensure the highest possible level of security and will also help to ensure faster and more effective implementation of security checks. It is sad, however, that after one year this law has to be amended, for the Krško Nuclear Power Plant has been working for over 35 years and there have been many printing repairs to repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Franz Rosec has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The drafter of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety states for the first time that minor changes are introduced which are mainly editorial in nature or are intended to remedy the current minor inconsistencies. Secondly, the biggest change concerns the security verification of foreign nationals who will work in a nuclear facility in repair, in the handling of radioactive substances or in the transport of nuclear materials, since the current regime has proved to be inappropriate. It is also cited as a reason to prevent greater economic damage as a consequence of the inconsistent conduct of the security verification of the operation of Neka, which faces the longevity of the security verification procedures of foreigners in the performance of the work in the context of the renovation. It should be noted that most of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service have been taken into account or further explanations have been given to their comments, so we will not oppose the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. As last on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Robert Pavšič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Slovenia has already received several requests for clarification on the relevance of such verification with regard to the provision in question of Article 155, also for those candidates or employees who will not have access to classified data in the working process. The basic objective of the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law is thus to simplify the procedure for the security verification of foreign nationals employed in nuclear facilities, and to amend the content of Article 155 of the current law, which states that foreign nationals employed in nuclear facilities must obtain access to data in confidence regardless of the nature of the work. Such an amendment to Article 155 will allow for a more comprehensive security review of foreign nationals and, consequently, ensure an adequate level of security. In doing so, it should be stressed that long-term administrative procedures may impede the work process in those facilities, particularly in cases where recruitment procedures are to be carried out in a rapid manner. If the amendment of the law is not adopted, the renovation of the Krška nuclear power plant will not be carried out in October, and we support the amendment of the law in the Marjan Sarca Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. I therefore note that we have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on, ladies and gentlemen, to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law amending the holiday law and the work of the free days in the Republic of Slovenia, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with Mr Matjaž German, first signed. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Holidays and Works Act lays the foundations of Slovenian identity as it confirms and cherishes the key milestones in the history of our country, its traditions, and the values of the Slovenian people and their relationship with our country. The festivals, memorials and memories of important events in the past define us as a nation in an integrated historical, sociological and cultural dimension and place us in a broader social context in the domestic and international environment and address us not only from events in the past but also into the present and future of our collective memory. This was and remains the main and first motive, when last year, in the previous term of the National Assembly, precisely because of people's desires, because of their desire, tradition of marking and historical facts, we prepared an amendment to the Law on Holidays and Work of the Day. The bill thus bypasses the ten-year desire of the Primorks and the Primors that their and the All-Slovenian day get their real name, and thus their full identity – by a change when we replace the tummine return with Turmin joining Primorska to the homeland. This word of connection between coastal people has been living its reality for the day and has been alive since 2005, when the larger novelties of the law included this and two other important national holidays. Thus, it is not an artificially defined tummine, which would be the product of a political decision, but something that has been among coastal people for decades at the time of this turning point. This change is not based solely on the dictionary name, but even less on some of the acts of history that some people want to put into this story, who, contrary to our merger and the liberation of Slovenian territory, testify to the violent accession of the occupied territory. The tradition and designation of connection in the case of this joint, Slovenian and coastal holiday must first be seen through what it is – the long-standing struggle of the coastal people, not to give in despite the difficult trials of Fascist subjugation and constant uncertainty before, in, between and after World War I, this is the time when the fate of Primorska was more than its people carried by the interesting flows of the wider international community and the interests of the great. Our Primorska has gradually implemented this process of connection, not with a single act, which I think is important to stress if we really want to understand this tumult of connection from a one-dimensional point of view. This process began long before the signing of the 1947 peace treaty, involving thousands more or less of the known and recorded acts of the Slovenian people, who had to fight for their survival over decades for the survival of their language, culture, property and lives. This process not only connected us as a nation, but paved the way for Slovenia's independence. I hope and expect us to overcome today sufficient maturity and responsibility to give the celebration of the accession of Primorska to the homeland the name of the right noble and genuineness felt and celebrated by our citizens and citizens every 15 September. Finally, I would like to add that there were no reservations to the amendment of the law by the Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the fact that the holiday arrangements must correspond to the actual attitude of citizens up to the dates we mark, even clearly supports the proposal of the law. And that's why we're gonna find your support. Not only those Members and Members who have signed themselves under the law, but all those who want the holidays to remain their own and reflect people; and not the political manipulations, as some Members unfortunately do in this case. And it is those who tabled the same draft law in 2004 with the same dictatorship and with the same amendment. These same politicians today, this is a reflection of duality, strongly resisting it. Historical facts, for this purpose, light the green light, as the people of Primorska had long ago lit. And it is also true that this national assembly will do so today. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you and we look forward to your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you for your explanation, Mr. Ambassador. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Vojko Starovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Matjaž German; with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College has confirmed such a procedure. The Committee was provided with material, published on the websites of the National Assembly, the draft law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. They participated in the work of the Committee: the representative of the proposaler Matjaž Germany, the representative of the Government, the representative of the Legal and Legal Service and the representative of the Council of State. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. There are no comments on the proposal for a law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, which supports the proposed amendments. In its written opinion presented by its representative at the meeting, the government stressed that the proposed amendments do not increase the number of holiday holidays, but only propose a terminological designation of the holiday. The Government supports the proposed changes to the holiday arrangements and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia. The representative presented the draft law and the chronology of the developments concerning it. In the debate under Article 1, opponents of the bill and the replacement of the tummine return with the tummine connection stressed that they did not agree with the proposal, because in their view it was not a matter of changing the dictatorship, but rather of changing the historical position. The word connection does not correspond to either the actual state or the truth. It has been pointed out that it is necessary to be exact and to understand what we want in terms of terminology and that the aspirations of opponents of the bill are not based on historical truth. Some have pointed out that all the Primors, and not all the professions, certainly do not consider the Turmin connection to be true. Some felt that this was a completely inappropriate and harmful expression, as it was intended to prove that Primorska was never part of her homeland and should therefore be attached. If you come back, it means it was your home, and that's why you can come back. Therefore, in this view, Turmin's return is more correct than its accession. Proponents of the bill stressed the need to respect history, of course we can have each of our own beliefs, but we must also take into account the expertise. The fact is that the initiative came from the Primors and that changes in terminology have also been established by the most prominent historians and Turmin is actually used at all events in Primorske. They stressed that this was a proposal from the coastal Members and that they did not want to do anything about the political division of citizens and citizens. The representative of the proposer said that the renamer initiative came from people. On this basis, many consultations and discussions were held with experts and historians. Most agreed with the new name. He stressed that such a policy follows the will of the people, the human tradition and the proposal of the profession. The designation of the holiday of the return of Primorska to the homeland, as stated by the law, does not correspond to the name of this holiday, which is evidenced by historical sources and by the fact that the accession has been named all these years at all these celebrations. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled to the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending the Law on Holidays and Works of Days in the Republic of Slovenia be adopted in the text before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like a word, government representative? State Secretary Tillen Christmas has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In its opinion, the government states that the area of holidays and holidays is regulated by the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of this Act is to establish holidays and holidays of general interest or importance for all or most citizens, so the holiday arrangements must certainly correspond to the actual attitude of citizens as to the importance of certain dates that are marked in particular. Since the adoption of the law, the proposals have already been supplemented, with three being implemented in the amendments and additions to the law in 2005, 2010 and 2015, some of which have not been accepted by the National Assembly. In 2005, there were three additional holidays, linked to our country's history and country-building, which are not part of the day off. One of them is the 15th of September, the return of Primorska to her homeland, since the National Assembly confirmed that Slovenia's Primorska, due to its loyalty to Slovenia and the oldest antifascism in Europe, deserves a special memorial day, with the 15th of September remembering the entry into force of the 1947 peace treaty. In its opinion, the government notes that the proposed amendment does not increase the number of holiday holidays, but merely means the terminological renaming of the holiday, which would follow the tradition of its celebration as well as the historical explanations, with the Government not making an assessment of the historical validity of the proposal in its opinion. It takes into account the fact that the holiday arrangements must correspond to the actual attitude of citizens up to the specific dates to be given, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposed changes to the holiday arrangements and the work of the days off in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for presenting the government position. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Janja Slug has the word on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u30	In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we consider the rise of the Slovenian Primorje to be a great act in the history of the Slovenian people. We have already pointed out several times that the Primorska symbol of patriotism, which is why the State holiday, celebrated on 15 September each year, is a memory and respect for all those who have fought for the unity of the territory of the Slovenian nation; and at the same time a reminder that having their country, their homeland is not something self-evident. In Primorska, the Slovenian people had to rise up several times and prove that they live on Slovenian land, I stress – on Slovenian land. He's done it all over again. History is a teacher of life and it is right that a state holiday that symbolizes the rise of the coastal and thus of the Slovenian people is appropriately, in accordance with historical and international facts, named and remarked every time. In particular, marking is important, respected and respected. We believe that when we have contributed our signatures to the bill, we are following many Primors and Primors, who have always celebrated the accession of Primorska to their homeland. Historical and international sources attach to this; we have not heard of any other experts in recent days who would object. Therefore, it is almost impossible to believe Mr Jelinčič's words, when his party proposed a change to the law on holidays and holidays on 2 December 2004 in order to make the 15th of September a holiday for the accession of Primorska to Slovenia. I repeat - connections. On this proposal are all six signatures of the Members of the then Slovenian National Party. According to the explanation, then Slovenia de facto joined Primorsko by implementing the Paris Peace Agreement on 15 September 1947. The accession of Primorska is of such importance that this event should be marked appropriately by the State of Slovenia and its citizens. It is also difficult to understand what has happened in these fifteen years to try to mark this change of holiday name as an issue of the Slovenian nation, almost a criminal act. Hard words for Primors and Primors, for Slovenes and Slovenians. It is likely that the response to the growing populism, which is strongly rejected by the Modern Centre Party, is particularly due to the dangerous resurgence of fascist ideas and even more frequent fascist outbursts of some prominent European politicians and other similar attempts of unilateral and selective interpretation of historical events. And we can no longer agree with the words of Mr Cyril Evil, who, at the 50th anniversary of the accession of Primorska to his homeland, wrote, inter alia: Primorska, with its light and positive political history, in particular its resistance to fascism, could be a grateful reference point for the national responsible reflection on our past, present and future. And when we decide what is right and what is wrong, let common sense be with us. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the word on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The holiday of joining the Primorska home country is much more than the mark of the Paris peace treaty with Italy. This is mainly an event that has been epilogued for more than 20 years of prolonged antifascism in Primorska and, of course, also resistance to Nazism. In fact, the Paris Peace Treaty is mainly the result of this fight. We know from historical events, from events that this was a long, 23-year-old battle until 1943, when Italy capitulated. On September 16, 1943, the Supreme Triumph of the Liberation Front in Base 20 in Kočevská Roge adopted a very important conclusion. This decision read: "The Supreme Triumph of the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People fulfils the fundamental, natural and historical rights arising from the request of the Slovenian people and proclaims the accession of the Slovenian Primorje to the free and united Slovenia in a free and democratic Yugoslavia." This decision, or similar decision, was taken by the second session of Avno on 29 November 1943, confirming that Yugoslavia is joining this part of the territory. And this is what was then actually realized at the end of April or the first days of May 1945, when Slovenian partisans actually liberated the territory along Slovenian ethnic borders, including Trieste. Then, of course, they had to withdraw, and we know how the whole thing got mixed up, which only then, through peace negotiations between the winners and then with Italy, which was also on the allies' side at that time, negotiated what was negotiated; and then it was a peace treaty. Historically, the Primors celebrate much more than the peace treaty with Italy. The marines are celebrating mainly what the prey OF has concluded. We celebrated the 40th anniversary of this holiday in Komno a few years ago, but it was this conclusion of the supreme spoils that was celebrated at that time, not the entry into force of the Paris Peace Treaty, which was signed in February 1943. It is a very similar date – September 15, 16. It's actually a connection. As for doubters who seem to prefer the view of the sea and the candelabra which disturb this view, the 11th article of this Treaty makes it very clear in English: “Italia hereby cedes to Yugoslavia”; or in French: “L’Italia cdde. la Yougoslavie”. It doesn't return, it doesn't return, it doesn't say "returns" or anything; it does leave or give up what was once elected. In Levi, we have contributed signatures to this law and we clearly support it. To those who question or question this name, we can quote only Dante and his Divine Comedy: “Do not look at them, but watch them and walk on.” Let us accept this small, modest but still important change in the name of the holiday and step with our heads raised in a new time of challenges ahead. More than enough important.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u34	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, there are no pressing topics and areas for consideration in the National Assembly. When we run out of ideas, we always get to the table of ideological themes. In Novi Slovenija as such, we also understand the proposal to rename the day of the return of Primorska to her homeland. The proposer wants to apply the word connection instead of the word "return". This is justified by what he calls historical facts. In his view, the designation should be inappropriate and even unacceptable. A hot debate on the bill was raised on the parental committee for and against. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Government said of this proposal, among other things, I quote: “I see no need for the holiday to be renamed during this pre-election period.” In addition, the President of the Government said that he had received a lot of letters from citizens opposed to renaming and something they supported. We have also received a lot of opinions against renaming in the NSI Group. It is common to all that the inappropriateness of the proposed word of association is already justified in language and further give good substantive reasons. In fact, the Italian authorities of that time joined our Primorsko on the basis of the Interstate Treaty of Rapal in 1921 with the Kingdom of Italy. Later, Fascist Italy, again illegal, followed by the so-called Ljubljana Province on 3 May 1941. The reason for unreasonable insistence on changing the designation of the largest holiday of the Primors cannot be explained in any other way than by deliberately trying to enforce the power of the coalition over the world-viewed opposite position in the National Assembly. In Novi Slovenije, we must also point out that a change in the designation of essential intervention in Article 11 of the 1947 peace treaty between Italy and Yugoslavia is taking place. Description of interference with the territorial integrity of a State that changes the circumstances of independence and changes the situation described in the second section of the basic constitutional instrument and interferes with the arbitration agreement and the judgment of the arbitral tribunal alone. In addition, it is also an illicit retroactivity. Since this is a constitutional issue of the highest rank, it is planned to rename the majority of the destruction of Slovenian statehood in the last 100 years; without every consensus, referendum, two-thirds majority. We believe that you can connect Primorsko simply and only return her to the motherland, to the homeland; not connect her. Members of New Slovenia will vote against the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor on behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! In front of us is a law that at first sight seems completely non-problem, since technically it is only about replacing one word for another. It is supported by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the State Council and most of the parliamentary groups. Nevertheless, doubts arose as to whether we had returned the Primorska to the Slovenian people or joined them. Historically, we've connected Primorsko. This is what the conclusions of the OF Committee on the accession of the Maritime and Historical Facts say. The holiday of joining Primorska to her homeland is a traditional holiday for Primorce, deeply embedded in the consciousness of people. The expression connects more closely with the then struggle and determination of the partisans and represents a symbolically stronger term. We must also take into account the broader context. This holiday, regardless of the designation of the symbol of the coastal uprising, was firmly anchored in national consciousness and opposed the fascist regime with a rebellious spirit. It is a mark of the day when after three decades of violent disunity, suffering and treachery the Slovenian people relived together. So let this holiday be an eternal memory of what people in this area have endured. And this is what must clearly remain in the historical memory — the courageous and bold actions of the Primors, the tigers, and the partisans for our homeland. Only in this way will we be able to resist attempts to relativise and fabricate historical facts, as we have recently witnessed in Bazovica. However, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, when considering this proposal, we also point to the national legal aspect of this designation. In particular, we have pointed out that in this respect, not just the historical aspect, we need to examine the meaning of the word connection. The change in the name of the holiday is, as it is said, symbolic and in the view of the applicants in the interests of the Primors. According to the Government, the change in name does not affect existing inter-State agreements and contracts. However, it is a legal proposal adopted by the highest representative body of one country, and it is therefore necessary to examine all aspects of this designation and to prevent any possible negative consequences from only subsequently being revealed. Therefore, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we asked for coordination to define the Government or, more precisely, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until the proposal for designation and international understanding of the word association. Since we have not received any concerns, the proposed law will be supported in the Alenka Bratušek Party. Today, there is no war on Slovenian soil, but it is possible to see more and more details during the time we were convinced that it had passed forever. The positive values of the past must also be maintained. On the other hand, the time in which we live is both broken and full of uncertainty. Retired people wonder how they can spend a month with pensions, young people waiting for the chance to finally leave their home nest and become completely independent, the health care of stitching. Climate change leads us to unstable waters, the economy gradually cools down and could be listed. What we need today is a policy of right answers, right information and right actions. But we also need voters who, like the Primors, will know how to do what is right and right decades ago. Not only for them personally, but also for our country and all its citizens. And let us take our stand for good as the Slovenian nation did more than seventy years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Jurij Lepi has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a bill amending the Act on holidays and work of days in the Republic of Slovenia seems like another simple and insignificant intervention into our legislation. But it's not like that yet. In our parliamentary group, we have invested a lot of time and energy in the direction of the debate on changing the word link between the return or the accession of Primorska to the homeland. The discussions were held on September 15th as the day we returned or joined Primorska. Historical sources testify that immediately after the surrender of Italy on 8 September 1943, the National Liberation Council for Primorska was established, where representatives of the entire Primorska were gathered. Next came the decision of the Supreme Front of Liberation on 16 September of the same year, which states that historical and natural facts give rise to justice and therefore requires the accession of Slovenia's Primorje to a free and united Slovenia in a free and democratic Yugoslavia. The word “historical and natural facts” has led our parliamentary group to reflect on what is historically better for the Slovenians and, above all, for the Slovenian Primorje and its inhabitants. In our history, Slovenians have always represented a part of Europe and were part of or, if you want, a minority in a union of nations. In World War I we were on the side of the losers, and in World War II we were on the side of the winners; but in both cases we remained part of a larger country. In the last war, however, we finally gathered our country — Slovenia. If we sum up all these facts, we find that over the centuries we have searched, preserved and, above all, built our identity. We managed to build or build our country by making up a piece of stone in a mosaic, which is then called Slovenia, an independent and independent state. I believe and I want to be sure that in Europe we will never ever change borders to force or weapons again. That is why it is all the more important that we remove or do not take any steps that might in the future sow even a little doubt about our historical facts. From historical sources and facts it is known that Primorska was part of the Slovenian territory where Slovenians lived. After World War I, when Italy was on the side of the victorious anti-tank forces, the Rapal Treaty between the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes and Italy was signed in November 1920. At that time, Italy joined a large part of the territory in which it lived, according to historical sources, more than 300,000 Slovenians. From here it can be concluded that at that time Italy actually joined the Slovenian territories with the people who lived here. In World War II, Italy, by attacking Yugoslavia in April 1941, crossed the border provided for by the Rapal Treaty, thus destroying the Treaty itself, thus allowing the requirements of the Slovenians to become viable after the change of borders. In this war, we were Slovenians on the side of the winners, yet after the end of the war we had to fight hard for our territories. It is known that Italy has capitulated and then switched to the winners and thus gained the status of a dormitory; and thus a greater role in the creation of new borders in Europe. By a peace treaty signed on 10 February 1947, Slovenia regained a large part of the territory, which was then inhabited by about 200,000 Slovenians, I repeat – it gained back. This fact encouraged us in the Desus Group to start thinking more and more about the usefulness of changing the word back into connection. I'll give the facts one more time. Italy joins part of Slovenian territory, November 1920. Next, Slovenia regains approximately the same territory in Yugoslavia on February 10, 1947. The Peace Treaty also established the Free Market Territory, divided into Zone A, which was under the Anglo-American administration, and Zone B, under the Yugoslav administration. By means of the London Memorandum of 1954, Slovenia acquired part of the B zone of the Free Market Territory within Yugoslavia with the coastal cities of Koper, Izola and Piran and thus the exit to the Adriatic Sea. All the historical facts and dates mentioned above, with the content of the Member in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, have not convinced us of a single opinion on the subject of the debate, so each individual will vote in his/her own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much. In 1943, the Council adopted a decision on accession. On the basis of this, the Slovenian National Party proposed a holiday in 2004 that was not available until then. However, because the connection was inadequate, the anxiety was altered, so that the present law contains a return. A colleague from a party who is in the latest sighs, a modern center party, had only half the truth in mind. It makes sense for her client to know what it is. And perhaps it would be good to teach someone, perhaps the president of her party, to read some legal literature. For example, if it says here – documents on SFRJ foreign policy, respected gentlemen, this has nothing to do with sex, but in Serbian the foreign word means foreign policy. So it would be good for you to also take the dictionary of Webster and look a little wider at what a word means, not to speak your mind. Today is an important international terminology, so it is necessary to keep the word return, because the 1920 Rapal Agreement has joined Primorska Italy and later the Italians joined their country. Hitler joined Austria to the Great Reich, which is Anschluss. And that's what these certain people are trying to bring in, who are lying to most of the Primors who support it, they're lying. They're probably lying because they got some supportive thought that I won't say anything else, from the Italian side, which is very aggressively interfering with growing appetites across Slovenian territory, along the Primorska. They keep talking and still talk in schools about the rapal border that Italy is up to there. And it looks like some people who think they're Primors, but I don't know if they're after the soul, they're using it to their advantage. In short, it's so fucking sad. And such people are supposed to represent the interests of Slovenia in the European elections! Please! Some Italian will come by, they'll kneel on the ground, and they'll squawk – Viva il Duce. That's what it says here. Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please! My parents gave four lives in the 2nd War on the right side. Uncle Zorko was the founder of the TIGR. Now you're going to talk to me about these things, some union of fighters run by a Tit Turnšek, would be much better off if you didn't work, according to your own words, motherfuckers all over the world, especially in China as an ambassador. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u41	Mr Member, please, we are concerned about the culture of speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u42	Yes, of course, Mr President, the dictionary of the Slovenian language also contains these words.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u43	Please take care of the culture of speech and the example.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u44	In short, government lawyers who don't know it and fuck it all up. We have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which does not know the basic tummas of international law, understands nothing; it understands worship. That is why I was very pleased when Prime Minister Sarec, in fact, stood up to the government's support for this law yesterday in order to keep the coalition partners together. Then it is necessary to give the little mints to the various gentlemen of social democracy so that they do not get too excited because the Left is lying in their area and taking their votes. This needs to be reassured that the government will remain together until the end of the term of office. This is understandable, but let them not do so at the expense of the coastal people. Don't let them do this. The docks won't forget that, I'm sure they won't, I know they won't. And the various ramblings I have listened to today only point to the level of patriotism among some of the parties in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you for your position. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In 2005, the government of Janez Janša proposed that September 15 become a holiday for the return of Primorska to her homeland. There was a great consensus in the professional historical circles to choose both the date and the holiday name. The date and that date were then chosen because a peace treaty was established on that date in 1947. Especially the Primors, at that time, we were delighted that the government of Janez Janša, as the first in fact, recognized how important it is for the Slovenian people to fully get its holiday, which, without a doubt, deserves it as a special commemorative day precisely because of its loyalty to Slovenia, the preservation of identity and the fight against fascism. As you know, I am the Primorka myself, I am the Vipavka and I am, like the rest of the Primors, emotionally attached to such contents and also very sensitive to them, especially if I have the feeling that they could be misused for political purposes only for their own self-promotion, say before the European elections. The name of the holiday is therefore changed on September 15th, which is now the return of Primorska to her homeland in connection with Primorska's motherland. It follows from the introduction of the law that the bill is being amended for ideological reasons, since the tummine accession was used in the decree exclusively by the supreme plenary of 16 September 1943; and apparently only for this reason should the holiday be named connection. We must also know that the decree of the Supreme Plenipotentiary OF referred to by the applicants has never had any significance in international law, such as the 1947 Peace Treaty, the London Memorandum of October 1954, or the Cromovo Agreements. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we will decide on something and it is good to really think about it; it is therefore a totally inappropriate and harmful expression, which can also have international consequences, in favour of Italy, because it indicates that Primorska was never part of the homeland and should therefore be attached. Unlike Turmin's return, which clearly shows that Primorska was a part of her homeland before that or that the Slovenians always lived in that part. Or if I say otherwise, "Turmin's return" means you're going home, which means you're going back to where your heart is, where your family is, where your lungs are, where Slovenians have lived for centuries, or where the Slovenians have lived for centuries. But if you connect something up and admit that this house was never ours, you actually admit that it was always Italian, which is a historical untruth. Seamen, who have always been nationalally conscious and committed to Slovenia, can't accept this. Otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues, we also know from history cases where it is clear what Turmin is about connection and what Turmin means to return. Julius Caesar, for example, joined Gaul to the Roman Empire, did not return it to the Roman Empire. Before that, Hitler was mentioned. Hitler joined Austria. He didn't return it to Germany. However, we also have instances when a land was returned. Look, Roman was, say, returned to the Papal State. Why was she returned? Because of being self - disfellowshipped before, or self - inclined, she avoided paying church taxes. So throughout history, we see clearly what this terminological difference means between connection and return. I spoke with many Primors, including my fellow Prime Minister Zvona Černač, Daniel Krivec spoke; and they assured me that Turmin's return was the best possible word and that they wanted to keep it that way. The President of the Government also said yesterday that he had received a lot of letters and that these letters said they were against the renaming of the holiday. By joining you, you emphasize ideology, and by returning, we emphasize the love of the country, that is, the love that has always been given naturally to the coastal nation, which, because of it, has been able to withstand the horrors of fascism and communism. That someone is returning home means that because of the circumstances he was only temporarily separated; and that is what happened to Primorska and Primors, so it is only possible to use the tummine return. However, if you vote on the Turmin connection, then you claim that it was never ours and you confirm the recent words of Tajani, which I reject entirely. We will vote against it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u47	Your Honour, thank you for presenting your Group's position. Mr Aljaž Kovacič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! Holidays are days that have special meaning for us or are dedicated to a special event. Some holidays are only important to an individual, others are celebrated by all. At times, though, everyone finds the reason for the celebration. In Slovenia we have 12 state holidays governed by the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia. On 1 and 2 January we celebrate the new year; on 8 February we read poetry and walk through museums; on 27 April we remember the establishment of the anti-imperialist front; on 1 and 2 May it is dedicated to all the workers of this world; on 8 June it is dedicated to the most important personality in the development of the foundations for the formation of the Slovenian people; on 25 June Slovenia became formally independent; on 17 August, the Premur Slovenes were rejoined by the centuries of the Hungarian authorities; on 15 September a Paris peace treaty was established; on 25 October, the last soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army left Slovenia; on 1 November we remember all the dead; on 23 November is the day of the great Rudolph Maister; on 26 December we remember the plebiscite of independence. Twelve different events from different times, but it is common for all to have an important weight in Slovenian history. On those days, various cultural events are taking place after Slovenia, and in various ways we remember and celebrate important events for us. When singing the Slovenian anthem and plating the flag, do we wonder what the official name of the holiday day is? I don't think so. Actually, it's an event like this. For a reason, the Primors gather at various events on 15 September and are reminded in various ways of all the horrors they experienced in decades of contempt on the Italian side and of the important victories they have achieved. Their memories and songs of the resurrection of the Primorska, which they sing with an emotional voice, cannot be taken away from them by anyone. In 2005, the government adopted the amendment of the law and officially created a new holiday — the day of the return of Primorska to her homeland. The Primors themselves remembered and celebrated historical events long before 2005. Sadly, however, the drafting of the Law did not take into account all historical facts, nor did the tradition of naming itself. In the new proposal or in replacing the word "return" with accession, we held discussions with various historians dealing with the area. So we came to the following conclusions. First, historically, it is not a matter of returning the territory to its homeland. The territory that had been annexed to Yugoslavia had previously belonged to Italy, which was won at the end of World War I and confirmed by the 1920 Rapal Treaty under the London Agreement of 1915. It was an Austrian-Hungarian area, specifically the territory of Kranjska and the territory of the Austrian Primorje. Another time. What does that mean? That Italy occupied Austro-Hungarian territory. If it were to return Primorska to her homeland, it would be the return of Austro-Hungarian. Third time. Nothing has been returned to us. The coast has not been returned to us. Nothing was returned to us because Italy gave us nothing back. We gathered the Slovenians at sea and took it for ourselves during World War II with a national liberation fight against Fascist Italy and after the collapse of Mussolini Italy in the fight against the Nazi occupation regime that occupied this area of Western Slovenia today. Fourth time. We Slovenians have taken over the territory that belonged to us. In short, we took what was ours, namely, the territory where the Slovenian population lived, which was actually under the terrible pressure of the Italian country, which came after the collapse of Austro-Hungarians, during the period between the two wars. And fifthly, we have connected it to the rest of the territory under the Slovenian authorities as part of the post-communist Socialist Yugoslavia war; therefore it is not a return, but actually an accession. The 1947 Peace Treaty with Italy – and the holiday marks the entry into force of this Treaty – only confirmed what was already in force on the ground, that was Slovenian territory. The above arguments show why the name of the holiday should be changed, as well as the use at the local level of the population that this holiday means most to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. And as the last one, he's got the word "mag." Mr Meira Hot on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Three members of the Social Democrats are Primors, me and my colleague Matjaž German and Samo Bevk. And all three of us breathe and live for Primorska. So let me explain to you why we are proposing to amend the law and why the Social Democrats are going to vote in favour of changing the name of the holiday. In Slovenia, every year since 2005 every September we celebrate the accession of Primorska to the homeland, with the intention of saying connection. For we Primors know that we never returned, for we never left. We've always been here and always will be. Celebrating shows the remarkable significance of this day for the Slovenian people. Congregations in Primorsk also write about joining each year in their invitations. And when they report on the holiday, the media writes about the celebration of connection. Let me mention the address of the invitation to last year's national event in Komno – 71st anniversary of the accession of Primorska to her homeland; or the media record of the event in Koper – The accession of Primorska to the mark of charity. Simon Gregorčič already said, "And you will bleed me" ; and unfortunately, she ran bloody. The wars behind them leave deep pain, suffering and mistrust among nations years after the end of the war, but it must be stressed that Primorska has been a shared space for centuries, built on values of mutual respect, understanding and friendship. The seashore is not only a part of the earth that can be measured, dismembered and distributed; it is a living creature that breathes, feels, rejoices and suffers only as a whole. During the previous term of office, a council of historians was organised at the then President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, in which distinguished historians justified why they used the term joining. Also from Dr Branko Marušić, the title itself tells about the accession of Primorska, and further, I quote: “The connection of the larger part of Primorska to the homeland 62 years ago is the conclusion of a long process, which can be called the accession of Primorska and begins in fact since 1848, more than 160 years ago when the Slovenians first received their programme.” The historian Dr. Kaja Shirok also uses the word connection and argues that Primorska cannot formally return because the countries to which she is to return are no longer there, as new countries have emerged since World War I. The historian Dr. Troha also states in one of the interviews: in 1947 a peace treaty with Italy and 21 countries entered into force, including Yugoslavia. Primorska was rejoined by Slovenia. The impressions of some that the expression attachment indicates that Primorska was never part of the homeland are so unfounded. The comparison with the German Anschluss is absurd and is expressed solely for the purpose of deception. Anschluss is a forced connection, a violent connection. Our accession to Primorska, however, is the result of internationally recognised contracts, the result of the Paris peace treaty. The fact that some say that by changing the name of the holiday we can lose the Primorska is lies, that is manipulation. These international acts remain the same. Coastal remains ours. No one will take our territory. It's true that they tried at the time, but they didn't take it, and they won't. They tried to take away our language, our culture, our consciousness; but they failed. It saddens us that some are trying to turn the tumlin connection into something completely opposite, as it really is. Joining is for the Primors a consciousness of victory, is a union with the motherland, is a long-standing fight of the Primors. Citizens often tell us that Members do not listen to experts, that each topic is overly politicised. Today we have facts on the table. Historians have said - it is more proper to connect. The docks said – we have always celebrated the connection and not the return. Since World War II, the term connection has been used in written sources. As the first-signed Member of Parliament introduced a proposal for a law in 2004 and proposed, in Article 1, the marking of 15 September as a holiday for the accession of Primorska to Slovenia. On 15 September 1947, Slovenia de facto joined Primorska and merged its territory. So we change the terminology, we change the word; we do not change our consciousness today, and consciousness remains the same. Consciousness that we will protect our world only if we faithfully follow the values that have always inspired us and earned us freedom. The freedom we enjoy today has been fought with weapons, but based on solidarity, social justice and built on the rejection of intolerance and hatred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you, honourable Member, for presenting your Group's position. With this, honourable Members, I note that we have concluded with the presentations of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law amending the law of indemnity. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Jožet Tank. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think it is right that we now return from a harmful darkness to one serious and necessary darkness. Our third attempt to systematically correct the income law. We have proposed something similar in 2017 and 2018, but with slightly different emphasis. This law brings four measures: raising the general benefit from €3,000 to €4,000; raising the income class limits by €2,000 in each income class; reducing the income rates by 2 percentage points also in each income class; and harmonising the tax base by inflation. This bill will bring about €400 million to taxpayers or Slovenian families. There is no need for the government to continue to look after their valuable assets. Otherwise, the government has enough money; 2.7 billion euros lie in Brussels, unsupplied. And since there is no indication that any significant change will take place this year and next year, a lot of money will lie and Slovenia will probably become even a net payer in the Brussels cash register. Our proposal represents only 15% of this unspent money in Brussels; 3.5 billion euros is estimated by the international institutions to move up in tax havens, but the government does not do anything either. In fact, our bill represents only 10% of what goes black through such or other transactions, overpayments, embezzlement and corruption on various greys, black institutions in different islands. The government has not done anything systemic in drawing on European funds, nor has it done anything to prevent the theft of public money, nor has it done anything about income; but it opposes the law. While the government is proposing a partial non-systemic measure, this is a relief of the regression, but the Minister of Finance has not received more than statements in the Slovenian media and has not done so. This year, if I may recall, Dr Bertonzel's Minister of Finance has already had two interviews in Finance, where he talks about a systemic solution or systemic proposals and measures for income, but they are all about the same as we are considering on my proposal today and they have been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Systematic changes in income policy are needed. People deserve their money, and even with what they give them, the country must do as carefully, rationally and completely differently as it is now. A higher net would reduce the wishes of young people, as well as other qualified people, after going abroad. And income is one of the key reasons why home knowledge flows abroad, and this knowledge cannot be resolved by various imports, by migrants and similar moves. In short, income is a key measure that can keep Slovenian experts at home. That changes were needed, the unions also noted, as they said that such a large-scale change in the minimum wage had been made to the minimum wage shot in the blank, because as a result of the transition to the higher income class and also as a result of the reduction in transfers to those who had done so, they would receive virtually nothing. Unfortunately, the government opposes the law, but what is even more sad is that two months ago, the government sent its normative programme of work to the National Assembly, a list of laws to be considered. And you won't believe there's no income law on this list. Now it is difficult to attract a minister who, on the one hand, talks about what is changing and is supposed to change, and on the other hand, he has not even written down the law to propose it in the legislative procedure. I suggest you support the law. If anything needs to be completed, changed, improved, we will certainly attract to your wishes. But something needs to be done for the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you, Member, for the additional explanation. For the opening presentation, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of Mrs Natalija Kovač Jereb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u54	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We have before us a bill amending the Income Act. The government has examined and notes that the proposal to increase the general benefit to EUR 4 000, to reduce the rates of all income classes by 2 percentage points and to increase the thresholds in all income classes by EUR 2 000, taking into account the 2016 income tax figures at an unaltered level, would lead to a deficit in the state budget of around EUR 383 million. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the law and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Why is the proposal not suitable for further consideration? In particular, due to a significant reduction in public financial revenues without replacing it with measures on the revenue side of the budget. The government is aware of the importance of a favourable business environment and of the impact of tax burdens on the competitiveness of the economy. However, while developing measures in this area, it is also necessary to pursue the sustainability and stability of public finances. This requires the preparation of measures based on the restructuring of public benefits. The applicants state that due to the high burden of work with taxes and contributions, the Slovenian economy is less competitive and productive because it cannot spend enough money on research and development, which is the basis of the economic growth and well-being of each country. In doing so, it should be noted that a number of tax measures have been taken precisely to increase the competitiveness of the economy and increase economic growth beyond 2006. The national tax burden on the income of legal persons is significantly below the average of the Member States of the European Union, especially the low burden on economic facilities with investments and especially those investing in research and development. Applicants also point out the impact of the increase in minimum wage. In accordance with the Income Act, the recipient of the minimum wage, in addition to the use of the general benefit, is entitled to additional general relief. The government also follows this linearity in the Income Act, which was introduced, I think, in 2017, which, in addition to the general facilitation, provides for this linearity of income taxes. This has also eliminated scrupulousness, the real easiness of the additional general relief, and it is possible that the debtors eligible for that relief would not suffer a negative impact on net income if they achieved higher gross income. Respected, the tax burden on work is one of the government's important priorities, but on the basis of the restructuring of tax burdens or the maintenance of sustainable and stable finances and the wider social and political consensus. The government has already drawn up a proposal to relieve labour in the direction of increasing general relief, additional general relief and changing the income scale. The proposals were presented on Economic and Social Council 22. 3. 2019. The Economic and Social Council is also at its 317th session. 3. 2019 adopted the conclusion that the tax package exempts the burden of the annual leave regression and prioritizes the adoption of legislative solutions that will allow for the unloading of the annual leave regression for 2019. In view of the above, the Government does not support the law and proposes not to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you for your introduction, Madam Secretary of State. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word, Mr Primož Siter, Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, hello! We have yet another proposal for a tax burden on work, which at first sight seems to be pleasing. The proposed changes, such as the proposalr, would increase the net salary for all workers. That was good news. Now to reality and bad news. The salary raise would be disproportionately disproportionate; the lowest-income workers would receive at least and the highest-income workers. While the proposaler tries to create the impression that he is working for the welfare of all ordinary workers, the fact is that he is the lowest wage worker of the proposed measures. She wouldn't get much. But far the greatest benefit would be to those who belong to the privileged caste of directors, managers, senior specialist doctors, wealthy lawyers, etc. And I'm not gonna be ideological and populist. I'm going to the numbers. The effects of raising the income class limits, i.e. EUR 2 000, lowering the income grade rates by two percentage points, raising the general income allowance to EUR 4 000, and harmonising the tax base and facilitating inflation are as follows: workers with a net monthly salary of EUR 760 would increase the monthly net income by EUR 18 and engineers with a salary of EUR 2 000 200. The most wealthy would, of course, get significantly more. A manager with a salary of 4 000 500 euros would have a monthly salary of around 145 euros and the best paid directors with salaries of more than 9,000 euros would have received more than 250 euros a month. In any such division of tax breaks, however, one who claims that the richest deserve the most because they are also the most productive. This gives the impression that every euro in the pocket of a wealthy elite is spent in hard work, sweat, denial and other victims in the working process of the richest. But the data from the Ministry of Finance show a diametric opposite. Incomes up to 160% of the average wage earn 99% of their income from work and only 1% from passive sources. 5 times the average wage of 90% of their income is earned from work and 10 from passive sources. The richest, the largest 10 times the average wage earners get only 51% of their income from work and 49 from passive sources. So who does the most? The tax reform therefore burdens the taxpayers to the greatest extent, who receive practically half of their income without any work effort, and at the very least gives the least to the least wealthy, who are forced to virtually all of their own, to devote their hard-earned income solely and solely for survival. The proposal thus places the greatest burden on those who do not actually need the burden at all for the price of a huge loss of revenue in the state treasury. It is ironic that the author of the proposal is a party that, almost every proposal to raise state spending on education, social health, pensions, development protest against the spending policy of the country, calls for austerity and is already appalled by the slightest deviation from the fiscal rule. Let us remember how the opposition MPs tirelessly reiterated the position of the Fiscal Council on the budget balance for 2019. At the time, the fiscal council claimed that the budget expenditure was too high for €260 million. With a view to investing in the development and strengthening of the social state, which benefits the least-favoured countries in particular, this was unacceptable to them, and it is now these Members who are proposing a tax reform that will especially benefit the most wealthy, with the State budget putting a substantial burden on more than €260 million. The budget expenditure will amount to EUR 387 million. It appears that for the right opposition, the burden of the state budget is fully acceptable when it benefits especially the rich and is increasingly unacceptable when it benefits the least wealthy. In doing so, we cannot agree to the applicant's assurances that the net loss of state revenue will be substantially reduced or even null and void. Most of the increase in the net wages of workers is expected to translate into consumption, and the effect of the proposed tax burdens – again wrong – is expected to be eliminated by the consequent increase in value added tax revenues. The proposer does not take into account the fact that a net increase in wages in consumption is mainly passed on to those with the lowest income. A worker with a minimum wage can't afford to save. It is forced to spend virtually all of its income to cover its current living costs. However, the logic of the wealthiest citizens is different. However, their current cost of living is taken care of, so they can invest surpluses in securities, funds and so on. The increase in the incomes of the most powerful is not translated into consumption, but into saving. That is why, from the tax exemptions that the applicant wishes to grant to the most wealthy today, we cannot promise huge tax inflows from value added tax. On the other hand, a slight burden on the least wealthy cannot lead to a significant increase in consumption. In particular, it cannot contribute significantly to raising VAT revenues, as a good part of the goods purchased by the poorest are taxed at a lower VAT rate. The logic of the proposal is, in fact, very simple; we want to give even more to the richest directors and CEOs. To defend ourselves against the obvious, to neglect small workers with the lowest wages, and to give them some change. In doing so, let us not say that every cent we give to the most wealthy is a cent less for the social state. With taxes and social contributions demonised by the right hand for citizens, they not only contribute to the well-being of all in the form of pensions, in the form of health care, as well as children's allowances, unemployment benefits and maternity leave. Everyone's going back to the citizen. They provide social security for everyone. In countries where the burden of taxes and contributions is much lower than in Slovenia, social security is only and only the most powerful. A typical case is the United States of America. There, at the expense of low contributions and taxes, everyone, especially the most powerful citizens, receives a slightly higher net salary, but that is why in the United States, when you get an education when you get pregnant, when you get sick, when you retire, you are left with the ruthless logic of the market, which every social service charges you. Of course, we can't agree to such logic in Levica, so we're going to be against the new Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Blaž Pavlin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u58	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new Income Act, which is ahead of us today, brings three key solutions: firstly, a reduction in the rate in all income classes by 2%; secondly, an increase in the income levels by 2 000 euros; and thirdly, an increase in the general income allowance to 4 000 euros. In addition, it brings the level of inflation relief back into line. An average wage worker would receive around €60 per month after all three measures, which amounts to around €720 more per month at the annual level. In the field of labour tax burden, Slovenia is among countries with an average high percentage of duties. While the average OECD is 36%, the burden on Slovenia is 42.7%. The 2016 Spirit survey shows that foreign investors among the biggest obstacles to investment in Slovenia see the exact burden of work with taxes and contributions and labour costs. However, the business survey carried out between German companies in Slovenia in 2015 shows that respondents see tax rates on income from work among the greatest competitiveness and attractiveness problems for investments and expect the government to reduce them as the most necessary measure. The overall budget deficit estimated by this law is around EUR 387 million. In seeking excuses for rejecting the proposal, the Coalition argues that we cannot provide funds in the income-discharge budget. No one wonders how to provide funds when the government increases budget expenditure by some 100 million euros, when expenditure from the state sector increases by 1.13 billion in one year, when hundreds of millions are invested in projects such as TES6. We are only asking this when there is a specific tax burden on citizens on the table. Following this bill, the average monthly salary of the State to the employee would be €60 tax. This is, in the Government's view, a major problem and fiscally unsustainable. However, the government has not seen the problem that, in increasing the minimum wage of €60, the employer's burden has increased by more than €110. In Novi Slovenija we advocate an increase in all wages. The time has come for the salaries of all employees in the public and private sectors to finally increase once at the expense of the State with tax relief. We believe that an individual is much more responsible and rational than a country when dealing with financial resources, so that only a limited amount of the resources necessary to operate its systems can be transferred to the country through taxes. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage these funds instead. Since the bill reduces the tax burden and pays higher wages for all, we will, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mr Franz Kramar on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The current burden of work on taxes and contributions is high, and on the other hand, paying taxes makes it possible for us to live in a social state that we do not want to give up. In order to preserve the social state and at the same time not to jeopardise the sustainability of public finances with possible lower taxes and labour contributions, the country must take more systematic and comprehensive measures. I believe that we all agree with the above facts in the Chamber, including the proposaler, although this is not evident in the draft law before us. The draft law of the SDS Group of Members is almost identical to that tabled by the Group of Members and Members of that Party in November last year. This time it is new to raise the overall relief to 4 000 euros and to coordinate tax reliefs and annual tax bases with the Life Needs Price Index. Remember, the proposaler was already in November last year, when he passed an almost identical law, convinced that the rise in general tax relief to EUR 3 000 500 is sufficient. On the proposal of the Government to increase the general tax relief in the same way, the applicant responded by introducing a bill that we are considering today, which generally raises to EUR 4 000. The bill was tabled without consultation with stakeholders and social dialogue, which is necessary when adopting such important changes. It is utopian to expect the consensus of all stakeholders on the envisaged measures and legislative changes. Only the Government can negotiate with certain stakeholders. That is why it makes sense for such laws to be submitted by the latter and not by the opposition. Not so that the coalition opposes the opposition, but because the government with the powers it has is best to harmonise and prepare appropriate measures. The law proposed last November did not receive sufficient support. Above all, we also present the same reasons for rejecting the bill today. The State must ensure that the positive effects of tax and social reforms are borne by all, not only the unemployed, but also the unemployed, the socially disadvantaged and the pensioners, who have been forgotten by the rulings for years. If we are generously and recklessly cut off from the public's lunches at the expense of the workload, as proposed today, the cake will suddenly not satisfy all the mouths. And for whom will the cake or, rather, the state money run out? Who will be pushed to the brink of survival? Who's gonna count the cents in the store? Retired pensioners, pensioners, yes, pensioners, or even those among them for whom a proposaler took part in the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Or is it taking the SDS to improve the situation of pensioners, taking seriously their proposal for the Income Act, to decide for yourself. The past years have shown how much determination, courage and experience we need to avoid the deterioration of public finances and the resulting well-being of citizens and citizens. The most difficult decisions were taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek, which maintained the dignity, sovereignty and independence of Slovenia. And if times of crisis have taught us anything, let us not repeat old mistakes. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we do not think that the proposal for a law for further consideration is appropriate. The reasons are as follows: for the first time, the proposed tax reform law does not regulate systematically and comprehensively; for the second time, the law does not seek to balance public finances, which on the one hand will relieve labour costs and, on the other hand, the deficit of compensation with other appropriate measures; for the third time, the proposal of the law is inadequate since the SDS Group introduced a nearly identical law last November, with a negative opinion. We need to know that such a law without taking other measures would seriously jeopardise the state's and public services' public finances. And last of all, in the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratusek, marriage proposals that would push the pensioners back to the brink made their material situation worse, we say no.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u62	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! The balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 is set at EUR 1 000 million in tax revenue. Today's proposal to amend the Income Act would reduce these revenues by around €380 million, which represents 27% of the base. The question is whether such a large amount of revenue can be replaced. There is no magic secret in how the government discharges its economic and fiscal responsibilities. The state collects tax money. Taxation is actually the decision-making of the authorities on how to obtain the necessary funds from businesses, households and individuals and invest them in investment and collective consumption. Money derived from taxes is a means by which real resources are transferred from private time to public good. Taxes are what we pay for civilized society. When discussing tax burden reduction, we need to take into account the basic reality of our time; this is a corporate system, a system of companies based on the boundless power of wealth alone. This can't stay undetected. In the Slovenian economy, the most common thing is that in companies the most paid in 14 days earn more than the worst paid in one year. It is not unusual if the ratio between the highest and lowest wages in economic society is 1:40; it is said that those with the highest wage earn in one month are as much as those with the lowest wage in forty months. A discerning observer of modern economic phenomena cannot escape reality. The power of companies is in management, in bureaucracy, which controls its tasks and its wages, the rewards that are sometimes on the verge of theft. Today, the best paid are also expected to reduce the tax burden. The Slovenian feature is also that it is an ingrained position that a worker with regular monthly work and full working hours cannot earn even modestly, let alone decent living. The State is supposed to be the one to compensate for the deficit in the form of different types of social transfers. Thus, for example, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce in its 2017 report boasts that it is among the greatest successes it has achieved this year that it withdraws the minimum wage bill; it is said to prevent its increase. After years of opposition to the rise in minimum wage and the claims that the Slovenian labour force is already too expensive to raise the net remuneration of employees due to the huge burdens demanded by the State on this wage and due to urgent investment in development, a narrow shift was reached at the end of 2018 – raising the minimum wage of EUR 29. The reasons that could lead to the loss of employers and the abolition of jobs in the event of an increase in the wages of workers in the end result in an excessive increase in the wages of workers. It is significant that the business sector is constantly calling for as little involvement as possible in economic processes, referring to the law of the market, which should solve all problems with its invisible hand, including the level of wages and the level of unemployment. However, now that market legality requires wage increases due to labour shortages and increased economic growth, the whole business sector now expects the involvement of the state, including by reducing tax burdens or by increasing the number of jobs allowed for foreign workers. It cannot be denied that the business sector is not burdened with various taxes, but the economic situation is that employers will have to raise salaries if they want to keep existing and hire new workers. The reason for such a radical change of attitude is simple; the labour market has changed completely over the last few years. Longtime philosophy is taken or left behind, enough is enough for those who want to work — what the workers had to listen to, because there was enough in the market for those who were willing to take on every job, even for a minimum wage or below — to fail. The dramatic celebration of the labour market and the day-to-day departure of existing employees in the wealthier countries of the European Union have simply left those who want to. The fact is, even a year or two ago, everyone claimed that they would fail even if they raised only the lowest wages, but the force of the car breaks. People have endured extensive blackmail and labored for wages that cannot be survived. But the situation is changing and he's going to have to change even more. It is true that wages have increased slightly, but much more or much more has been affected by the scope of the business, so the rest of them must do more than before. Today, we reap the consequences of a long-standing culture of non-respect for work, and I place culture in connotations. In the private sector, there will have to be changes, wages will have to rise as a result of the flow of profits or as a result of better organisation of business systems. The area of tax corrections seems to be largely exhausted. The market always dictates the price, including works, which are now gradually being auctioned off by a drastic reduction in supply. In many sectors, especially in trade and tourism, it is no longer possible to obtain a quality worker, regardless of the salary offered. The question that inevitably arises is whether employers had to wait until the last moment or were unable to predict what would happen. Above all, they are not responsible for the current situation. Profit is an inseparable part of business and it is self-evident that everyone wants to earn something. Nevertheless, in the last four years, when recovery started, the increase in employers' profits was significantly higher than the increase in wages. In such a situation, employers decided to take the results of increased economic growth for themselves. Practice shows that the increase in profits is greater than the increase in wages, it is said that the positive effects of growth have now been distributed over the average to employers rather than to employees. The other thing is – and this is what is most important – that the overall wage growth cannot result only from tax burdens, but also from entrepreneurial and, in particular, innovative activities. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Income is the most important tax source for the financing of municipalities. The relevant financial resources and assets of municipalities are an essential financial and material component of local self-government. The basic funding of municipalities is provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Local Self-Government. As the basic source of the Constitution and the law, they place funding from their own resources and far more important is income between their own resources. The Community Funding Act sets out the share of the income which represents the decommissioned tax resource for the financing of appropriate spending. As of 2009, the municipalities have been allocated an income of 54% of the allocated income. On average, however, the average level of expenditure to cover appropriate spending is covered. In order to cover the extent of these liabilities, the municipality has 70 % of the allocated share of the income, while 30 % of this resource is the basis for a solidarity levelled between municipalities with a weaker tax structure. Local self-government is based on the assumption that effective political decision-making and effective supply of public goods are achieved when they are provided by the level of authority closest to people. Local authorities have a better knowledge of local environmental problems in dealing with local issues and thus have an opportunity to tackle these problems more effectively. The main purpose of autonomous local government is to achieve greater national economic benefits measured by economic growth and social equality and to provide more effective local public goods than if they were provided by central government. It is essential that municipalities are financially autonomous and decide independently on the acquisition and use of financial resources for their operations. This means that they must have sufficient resources of their own in order to cover the costs of the exercise of their legal powers and the possibility of deciding on their use. I reiterate that the most important own financial resource is income. In developing adequate funding to be the basis for the effective functioning of local self-government, we need to build on the basic principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which foresee the proportionality of resources allocated and the tasks of municipalities, the participation of local authorities in resource allocation decisions, the autonomy of local authorities in the management of allocated resources, the participation of local representatives in addressing these issues, and in particular the flexibility of adapting resources to changing needs in the local community. The proposal for amendments to the Income Act provides for substitution effects. Indeed, it does not define them as valuable, but it certainly acknowledges that they are not nearly able to reach EUR 380 million, but these substitution effects are expressed in some other tax types, particularly in the case of value added tax. This tax type is by no means intended to finance local self-government. In practice, this actually means sub-financing of the already financially sub-capacitated system of financing the tasks to be performed by the municipalities. That's what we find unacceptable. On the basis of this, we will vote in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia against the proposed amendments to the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u64	I thought I heard SMC and I stopped right away, but good. Have a good day to all present. Dear Vice President, the Secretary of State has a nice day for you. The bill, which we have today under consideration, provides for five concrete measures: an increase in general relief, a reduction in rates in all income classes by 2 percentage points, an increase in all income classes by 2 000 euros, and a coordination of incentives and net annual tax bases with an increase in the price of living needs, irrespective of the level of inflation. It is stated in the explanation of the articles that these measures will relieve the income from work, which is expected to result in an increase in the net wages of workers and the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is expected to be reduced, unemployment and the extent of the grey economy. The proposal states, I quote, "The only way to raise workers' salaries is by reducing taxes and contributions". You really kicked in the dark here. In order to increase wages, it is only necessary to increase productivity, higher added value and the employer's decision to reward his employees according to their performance and effectiveness. The same applies to competitiveness. Slovenia cannot compete with cheap labour. Slovenia has an educated and trained staff that can be shown with high productivity and added value. The high workload is expected to affect unemployment. I'm letting you go! What a bigger tax reform we haven't had in a decade, and at that time unemployment has been between 130 000 and today's 76 000 533 unemployed, that is a completely wrong argument. The grey economy also decreases more than by lowering taxes by simplifying tax payments, by providing incentives for legal entrepreneurship, by using non-cash trading, by awareness-raising, by increased control. The bill is intended to follow the principle of fairness and reasonable or moderate taxation. In Slovenia the taxpayers are supposed to be overly burdened by taxes – this is not true at all! In OECD countries, an average of 25% of total tax revenue is collected by income and only 14% in Slovenia. Do you know how much the tax pays a person with a minimum wage, which enforces only general relief? 18.11 euros a month. I don't think that's an excessive tax. Indeed, Slovenia has high contributions to social security. Social security contributions in OECD countries average 16% of total tax revenues and almost 40% in Slovenia. The rates of social security contributions set out in the Social Security Contributions Act should therefore be reduced. The OECD proposes to shift the burden of social security contributions to income. This should be done by increasing the tax rates in the second, third and fourth tax classes, which would contribute to financing the reduction of social security contributions to employees of 5 percentage points. Why? Why doesn't he suggest it? The adoption of proposed solutions should encourage consumption, which should have a beneficial impact on economic growth and competitiveness, and even on revenues in the national budget. According to an assessment of the financial implications of the bill, it is stated that the proposed solutions would result in a loss of revenue in the state budget of around EUR 387 million. The OECD warned that fiscal reform should be fiscally neutral. But we do know your position on the surplus budget balance. While the applicant assesses that this loss would be compensated by higher VAT revenues. Given the saving of the Slovenian people, I would not rely too much on tax revenues when increasing consumption. In the case of Austrian taxation of natural persons, you can only see the first income class, after which income of up to EUR 11,000 is exempt from income payments, and no one says that in Austria they do not have special personal facilities such as journalists, culturers, athletes, students and students. In Austria, there are no facilities for dependent family members, but their tax may be reduced if not, their incomes are extremely low. When will we start talking in Slovenia about tax cuts due to informal education and training expenditure and housing loans so that young people can move away from their parents? The Ministry of Finance has drawn up two draft laws to relieve the average wage of income and social security contributions. Employers always claim that they would pay workers higher wages if they were not so burdened by taxes. On the basis of these statements by employers in the Slovenian National Party, we expect all employers to pay a regression of EUR 1000 this year, which will not be charged with any taxes. So in this year's regression, we'll see if there's really a high-priced problem or if there's a problem somewhere else. If income were so heavily burdened by taxes, all Slovenian employers should reimburse the cost of eating while working at 6,12 euros, as this amount does not include the tax base of the income from the labour relationship, but not according to our information. However, since the aim of the bill is to provide higher net wages for all workers, regardless of the level of their salaries, we will also support the law in the Slovenian National Party because perhaps a little more pressure on the public treasury will result in the budgetary resources finally starting to be used rationally. We are convinced that there are still many items within the budget where the country could act more cost-effectively. Not long ago we obtained data for 2018, where all public institutions or institutions, however, transfer almost 3 billion euros annually to abroad, we have for data for 2018 from, say, 10 billion budgets. These are, I would say, Bosnians, frantic data, control over these public institutions is essentially not, they are basically all with their control councils in any way – I do not believe that this is all pure. Even if we look at non-governmental organisations, there are 27 000, according to other data, 32 000 in Slovenia, O.K., and more than 300 million budget funds. Of course, we are talking about non-governmental organisations, but they are all connected to the government budget, so this is also an interesting thought. That's it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Next one's gonna be a mag. Marko Pogačnik presented the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u66	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have once again decided to submit to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending the Income Act. We have taken this decision for a number of reasons: the burden of work with taxes and contributions in Slovenia is one of the highest in the European Union countries or even in the world; this applies in particular to higher and highly skilled jobs with wages which are on average or slightly higher than the average. Due to the high burden of work with taxes and contributions, the Slovenian economy is less competitive and less productive, as it cannot spend enough money on research and development, which is the basis of the economic growth and well-being of each country. The high workload of work, of course, also has an impact on higher unemployment. Studies by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, demonstrate that the high burden of labour income is problematic in at least two aspects, namely the first pressure on labour costs and the international competitiveness of businesses and thus the country, and the second can also be a risk of increasing the grey economy. The amount of the labour burden also affects the income received by the worker, the remuneration he receives for his work and we usually call it pay, is generally his main source of income and therefore has an important impact on his ability to spend or save that income. Gross salaries include social contributions paid by the worker, while net salaries are calculated after deduction of these contributions and all amounts owed to the State, such as income. In Slovenia, a country of worker who applies only a general benefit in the form of contributions and taxes on minimum wage takes about 60% of his net salary, with an average wage of about 80%, and for a double average wage, the country of worker takes all of his net salary. In the case of salaries higher than twice the average wage, this percentage is increasing more progressively. If this is not believed, if this is not the case, then we would point out the case of so-called migrant workers working in neighbouring Austria. These workers, after paying taxes and contributions in Austria, also receive from the Slovenian State, Fursa, to pay the differences in taxes that have already been paid and still have to be paid in Slovenia. This clearly shows that taxes in Slovenia have been shown to be significantly higher and that there is no double taxation, but this is mainly about paying the difference. So, taxes in Slovenia are too high. If income scales were to change, like in neighbouring Austria, migrant workers working in Austria would not pay Slovenian Furs a cent. The fact is, the government has tried to do something in this area over the last period, but according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, it has failed. The fact is that the government has decided to raise this minimum wage with the pressure of the Supercoal Party of Levice. We are also in the Slovenian Democratic Party for minimum wages to be raised, but not at the expense of additional burdens on the economy, but by lowering taxes and reducing income scales. What did the government do when it raised the minimum wage but did not take care of all the other laws? Indeed, those to whom the minimum wage has been raised today, when the line is drawn, even worse, because they have been deprived of certain benefits, without certain social contributions, mainly due to disproportionate wage increases, including the budget's rebalancing. Today, I would say, this reckless act, which has not been done in the package, is actually felt by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia by increasing the cost of paying for kindergartens, at home for elderly and similar matters. The main objective of the proposed law, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, is to reduce the tax burden on income from work or tax burden in Slovenia. This can be achieved by reducing rates in all income classes and by increasing general income relief. The tax burden on labour income will also increase the net wages of workers, while increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, reducing unemployment and the scope of the grey economy. The main solutions to the proposed law are to reduce the rates in all income classes by 2 percentage points and to increase the general income allowance to 4 000 euros. An increase of EUR 4 000 in general relief for an average wage worker means an increase in wages or somehow calculated that a worker per year with an average salary of more than EUR 400 per month. So again, we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party for higher wages, but without burdening the economy by increasing tax burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth may also be known in the pockets and wallets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect to persuade Members and Members of the Coalition to support the proposed amendment to the Income Act, thus enabling workers and workers in Slovenia to pay higher wages, but not at the expense of the additional burden of the economy, but at the expense of reducing tax burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u68	Dear President, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the draft law before us, the proposal states that in Slovenia, the burden of working with taxes, income and contributions is one of the highest in EU countries and even in the world. They also state that the only right way to raise workers' wages in reducing taxes and contributions is by them the only way to improve the international competitiveness of businesses and countries is to reduce unemployment and the grey economy. The proposed solution, based on the reduction of taxes on work, does not directly represent an economic burden, as this would only increase the individual's income available. Due to the decommissioning of the debtors, private consumption increases in lower income classes, which are more liquidity-limited than other classes and spend all additional income on consumption. Revenue coming from VAT would not cover a significant loss of revenue in the state budget, as the additional VAT inflow is estimated at only €19 million, on the other hand leading to a loss of revenue in the state budget for around €333 million. As we have heard many times before, and this is also shown by OECD studies and data from the European Commission that Slovenia does not deviate from the average of the developed countries after paying taxes and social contributions. A few of them only give up on heavy wages, and only a handful of them. The comparison of the taxation of salaries by country is very ungrateful and it is difficult to transfer 1 to 1 into our system because each country has its own specificities. As a result, different results and interpretations appear in the public, depending on what anyone wants to stress. In Slovenia, around 8 billion euros per year in taxes and social contributions to government bills are paid, and the country then returns citizens more than in the form of pensions, health care, child allowances, sickness benefits, unemployment benefits, maternity leave, kindergarten subsidies, transport subsidies, school meals, scholarships, and could also be listed. In some countries, wage burdens are very low and they sound very fairytale, but we must be aware that this means that when you learn when you get pregnant, when you get sick or retire, you are left with the ruthless market logic of capitalism and you pay all the costs exclusively out of your pocket. I think we need to ask ourselves how we want Slovenian companies to compete in the market; by reducing wages and social contributions, meaning social dumping, whether we want to develop with new products and creating high added value. In the LMŠ Group, we are aware that the competitiveness of the economy is crucial for the country and that tax burdens also affect it. We have also committed ourselves to this in the Coalition Treaty, which is why proposals are already being prepared to relieve the work that will strengthen the competitiveness of the business environment and have a favourable impact on sustained economic growth and increasing the competitiveness of Slovenia in the world, while maintaining the sustainability and stability of public finances. The proposal for tax changes will go towards decommissioning middle-class income classes, which will include an increase in wages from business performance to income. Above all, the solution to the regression of income to 100 % of the average wage is an important one. However, not only can all measures rely on lowering tax burdens, but such measures need to be addressed in an integrated and well-thought-out manner with a complete restructuring of the burden of public duties, which could continue to provide approximately the same scope of public goods and services, while also pursuing the objective of fiscal consolidation. We will therefore not support the proposal in the LMŠ Group because it is very narrowly oriented and very burdensome for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position for the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u70	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Joza Tanko! Numbers are a cruel thing, and sometimes I am quite surprised how some can so easily propose some things that know that at the end of this number, unfortunately, they do not add up in such a way that people, citizens and citizens have more. When the words are applied to the amount of wages and income from work, both the right and the left are essentially agreed that these wages are too low in our country — yes, too low. When we ask ourselves why, of course, we begin to differ a little. As this regularly proves to us on the right, the opposition, in their view, there is only one reason for this, and these are too high taxes in this country. According to this logic, their logic, all injustices would be settled if, of course, this greedy country were to curb its greed and simply take away less from people than now or even more simply if they did not pay taxes in this country, everyone would live a better life. But here's a big question. The employer will not get any higher costs, each salary would be a little higher, and anyone could say that if I could make a little joke, the richer because we have heard comparisons of cleaners and those who have the highest wages before, and that anyone among those who receive a salary can afford a little more. Such measures represent a step towards a society of rich people in which everyone can take care of themselves with his or her earnings. The only thing worse is the so-called country, which, according to the applicants, is already too greedy and the work of people depends on social transfers. The price we will pay as a company and for them, for the applicants, is absolutely irrelevant. It is important that we be able to say that their proposals, the opposition's proposals, bring a few more euros to everyone. What about the rights, my dear? Of course we're forgetting that. On the other hand, we may represent less popular but more realistic views today than the SDS's proponent. We are interested in all these tax issues, besides, of course, wages and so on, also some other questions. The first question, what will be the impact on public finances or very simple, how much less will it be in this joint cash register, from which, interestingly, we pay kindergartens in this country to be as cheap as possible, we pay public education, so that everyone in this school can be able to pay doctors, so that the doors don't close when they're sick in front of hospitals and so on, we pay the travellers to have renewed roads, to pay the maternity bills, to pay the pension budget, my dears, to pay from this cruel cash register, to burn the social rights of the people and to list them and to list them. They could be more organized in some way, but this cashier Slovenian works differently from other people living in Europe and the world. I believe you've all been abroad, going abroad, and you know what some rights mean to us, what our people have and what the cruel world means. The second question that we would, of course, want to raise in some way is how we will, after all, make up for the fallout. You know this word very well, whenever this piece proposes, the government, the coalition, of course, all the lights are turned on with you as to how to turn into a cashier. This loss will result from a tax exemption to excessive work or there may be some other elements of the tax system where they pay less than is fair and fair. To put it very briefly, we have to have a bigger picture in front of us, in my opinion. We need to look at people's income in this way, I agree with you, as well as with the state's ability to make such or other incentives for people's decisions to spend or to save. So the question is whether we will still have the means to help those who are simply not as rich as some others. The proposal before us once again shows that the applicants for this simple consideration have not done so. When we discussed their similar proposal last December, who knows how many times, the government then assessed this proposal, which is similar to today, to 326 million. Today, a slightly newer idea is possible when, in addition to moving the income classes for EUR 2 000, an even higher overall relief and further alignment of the amounts with inflation is proposed by the applicant to raise to almost EUR 400 million of the annual minus in the state treasury. My dears, the constitution, my dears, the fiscal rule, the adopted budget – this is not really important. The important thing is that we can somehow report something. By comparison: any planned tax changes to the tax scale presented by the finance minister to the team so far would have a maximum negative impact of 130 million. A similar amount would also be spent on the proposed discharge of the regression and annual awards, provided that all employers in this country decide to pay the maximum regress which is still untaxed, which is, I think, a circus of €600. However, once the government proposes this, there are, of course, concerns about the level of total consumption and the requirement that the burdens are targeted where the tax burden is unjustifiably the greatest. Already in the face of these substantially modest proposals, a great deal of effort is being made to seek alternative resources to patch up this hole in order to prevent the emergence of this hole in finance. In all of this, the motioners also forget some other facts, and of course Mr Polnar also pointed out one thing. They forget 54% of the collected income received by municipalities also from this income. If we impoverish all this common bag with this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, money will be easy for all municipal, local needs significantly less than it is now. I don't know what we're gonna do then. We already know that we had the veto of the State Council because of the local community, but he is right in some way. Secondly, they forget, or proposer, that they oppose the budgetary framework, that there is not enough money in the budget and that the deficit is large – I think that around 270 million, even though we are taking more money than we are spending, but with your proposal you are seriously ruining this picture. When we have adopted the budget, all of you, both New Slovenia, SDS and I do not know who, the National Party, are calling for the assistance of the Fiscal Council, are calling for the assistance of the Constitutional Court. We don't have that chance right now. Will we now make your proposal to the Constitutional Court? And secondly, they forget that one important change that you would make if we let it go forward is that, this year, because of your proposal, you would not be able to adopt under the urgent procedure of the Regression Income Act, which is coordinated, interesting, with all the social partners – for the first time in history, that all the social partners have agreed – and where everyone will really have at least 150 euros more in their pocket already in June, July, August, September, when the employers pay this regression. If your proposal were to support me today, the workers of this year would have nothing. I don't think you're consciously forgetting that. Maybe you've missed it. Because of all these matters that I have listed, the Social Democrats will oppose the proposed solutions and we will also oppose the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u72	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a new Law on Income, which has been tabled in the legislative process by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We have already considered and rejected the same proposal in this mandate in December, and the proposaler has failed in the previous call of the National Assembly with the same law. So today there is a third attempt by the proposer to change the key system law that interferes with the taxation of natural persons and thus touches each and every one of us. Although the applicant does not insist on the exact same solutions as last time. The current proposal thus foresees an increase in general income relief to EUR 4 000, a harmonisation of tax bases and a net annual tax base with a consumer price index. However, this proposal, as in the previous version, retains the reduction of the tax rates of all income classes by 2 percentage points and the increase in income class limits by EUR 2 000. While the direction of tax changes can be regarded as positive, as it is a tax burden on work, we stress that the only reasonable and professional reason is to intervene in such a key system of regulation as taxation of the population is strictly and substantively planned and led by the Government or the competent Ministry of Finance. However, in order to relieve wages as soon as possible, the coalition partners were aware of this at the time of the conclusion of the coalition agreement. The Minister of Finance followed this and, therefore, presented by the end of February this year the first proposal for systemic tax changes, how to relieve work and make an additional contribution to economic growth through higher domestic consumption. The expected tax evasion is largely due to a relatively higher taxation of capital and to a more efficient collection of taxes. The Minister also announced that changes in regression taxation could be implemented this year and most of the other changes in 2020. However, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group tabled this amendment to the Income Act just before the agreement reached between the social partners on the immediate tax burden of the annual leave regression. The government then, on the basis of a unanimous agreement between all the partners, the Economic and Social Council only a few days later confirmed and forwarded to Parliament a proposal for amendments to the Income Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. On the basis of both government proposals, the annual leave amounting to 100 % of the average wage will be burdened with income and social security contributions, and employees would be able to receive higher benefits this year, but the legal amendment should be enforced by 1 July at the latest, when the deadline for this year's regression expires in accordance with labour legislation. The National Assembly must therefore conclude its consideration of the new Law on Income today as soon as possible, only then can the legislative procedure of the Government law be initiated. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will therefore reject the proposal for a law amending the Income Act, which is before us today, for both substantive and procedural reasons. We welcome its basic purpose, however, as government reform follows the same objectives of the tax burden on labour costs. In doing so, we would like to point out that the past government, within the framework of its current public financial capacity, has taken the first steps towards tax relief of labour with the aim of raising the net earnings of employees and also improving the international competitiveness of the Slovenian labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, he gets the floor from the proposer and then he has to prepare Mr Nick Prebil for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe something about this excessive concern for financial resources first. In Brussels, there are approximately € 2.7 billion unspent. Next year is the last year of perspective. If I say it more plastic now. We have recently witnessed the opening of the Yaskawa factory in Kočev, which cost EUR 25 million, and what lies in Brussels is 110 such Yaskaw. Which means that in each municipality where the administrative units are located, two such Yaskawis and approximately 400 additional employees could be employed. None of you mind. Secondly, I said earlier that, according to the international institutions in Slovenia, 3.5 billion euros would disappear. 3.5 billion euros! No one sees any source of money in this missing person, nor sees any tax revenue. But this 3.5 billion Euro means 140 Yaskaw. If we move on. The second track will be overpaid at least €700 million, which is what the figures say, which analysts say, is what experts who do. And the overpayment at the second track is 25 Yaskaw — no one is worried! The next source mentioned here by some in the debate is unrecovered taxes. There, the Secretary of State will say, there are also several billion euros that no tax authority or judicial proceedings bring into the state budget. No one sees any source of this, and neither has any government activity in this area. Do you know any action? And another measure that is and is not implemented is the confiscation of property of illegal origin. This is the case for those who have gained oil in ownership procedures and later in various transactions. Nobody sees any source here. These are measures by which the country could accelerate something, in drawing, for example, or something bad that has accumulated during these periods, to be corrected. No action has been taken in this plan of the Government's 2019 Normative Work Programme, which was sent to Members on 19 January, in this respect. Not one. The court stands, things get old and so on and so forth. No measure has been taken to remedy the problem of overpayments in health care. There's an enormous source of money for these things. By the way, only what will be overpaid at the second track is as much as the entire annual programme of maintenance of roads and railways in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Look at this, the overpayment at the second track is one piece, 2 or 3% of the Slovenian network will disappear, as much as the entire programme for maintenance and investment on roads and railways this year. Are you worried? Do you see in this what kind of source for other measures and for some other purpose, or does it have to be what it is, just like it's happening? So all those of you who are asking us to propose compensatory measures, I have now counted them for you. Take measures, see where it is, study the variant and start working. Get to work. As regards the Government, see, in this programme as regards the Ministry of Finance, on page 3 of the Government's National Work Programme for 2019 there is no measure related to the Income Act. The Minister, however, proposed a amendment to the Income Act with one measure – a regression. Now I ask you, what is the planning that the Government does not know in January what it will do in February or March. Do you see a concept in that? Do you see any systemicity in this? Do you see any way of thinking about what's going to happen by the end of the year when you introduced this program? None of you have pointed out this, but the Minister is proposing a law that has some €90 million implications and does not propose any compensatory measure at this time. All of you in the coalition have said that we are not proposing any compensatory measure to compensate for this outage. You're asking us to do this, you're not suggesting it yourself. You proposed a law on, I don't know, where we were raising unemployment compensation to 390 euros; you supported it, 68 million euros was worth it. She suggested Lefty, you supported everyone in the coalition and the government. Have you requested from Levi any compensatory measure for this outage of the budget? Nothing, not one! To tell you this, if you don't know yet, the increase in the number of pensioners who have a lower working-age pension from 17,000 to 43,000 has been the result of this measure, when this unemployment benefit has risen to 390 euros. And they have a smaller pension than this new unemployment benefit. Do you have any idea what kind of social measure you've taken? This cost 68 million euros and 26,000 pensioners are now in a worse situation than when the old solution was in force. And you're talking about systemic integrity! That's impossible! People, that's not how it works if such a measure happens and brings such consequences! People who have been employed and who have worked for 10, 15, 20 years of working age are in a worse position than those who have never done anything before. And you're talking about systemic solutions, pal. That's unacceptable. Because you tell us that we do this in a way unilaterally, and you do it comprehensively and systematically, you vote, you accept, you charge the budget and you do the wrongs yourself. With every measure you take, you do wrong. Our proposal, or what you have in front of you, is not an unfair proposal, as far as general facilitation is concerned, the same is true for all income classes with regard to the treatment of income, for all income classes, the same is true for all income classes as regards the consideration of valorisation or inflation. The same! It is only interesting that some of you who are in the coalition and who are addressing this left-wing role of the state in public life have done nothing to ensure that all income classes are equal to all wage classes. To have only one pay grade in the country. As long as we have 65 wage classes in the public sector, there will also be 65 differences in this situation, including taking into account all other additional revenues and so on. You're criticizing that they'll get one more, the other less, and we've got 65 pay grade. Act with respect to your colleagues, the Left, the coalition you support, and make one payment class for the whole public sector. And we'll all be the same! It still bothers me that no one is disturbed by the valorization of pensions. You have raised 1.1% valorisation there, and 1.1% more, but pensions are not all the same, so not everyone gets the same in this 1% harmonisation in pensions. There's nothing bothering you. And there's this measure that's grateful to him, you applaud him, you cheer for him, and so on. Be consistent with your interpretations. If there is valorisation in wages, and you have done this, then valorisation and reduction of income bases can also be on your criteria, in this case, on the same criteria. At your behavior, it's an elephant. That the matter is even more paradoxical, but here in your debate, the presentation of the parliamentary positions has been said that the Minister in principle proposes the same measures as we have proposed in this law for the third time since 2017. 2017, two years ago. That's a third suggestion. But those measures that the Minister will bring will be excellent, with similar solutions like this, and this one is nothing. Can one of you reasonably explain to me how this is possible? Two years ago, the first proposal was on the table. I also suggested these solutions, which were written here, were in the middle of another, such as the cadastral income, which then changed. And now, Minister, I have already seen two interviews in Finance – one I think January, February, and one a few days ago talking about similar solutions to this law. Now I'm asking you why this waste of time is necessary. Why is this proposal bad and ministers will be good if similar solutions are similar to financial consequences? Can someone explain that to me? In doing so, the proposal will be better with similar financial implications such as this. And if the Minister has an idea and solutions that will be better for the taxpayers, this proposal can also be easily corrected, complemented, improved – we will not oppose it. It's easy to do that, gentlemen in the coalition! You have more votes than enough, 55 seconds from now shows you have them on this proposal. I also ask the Government what will make that proposal better than that, and what measures will you propose to compensate you for what lies everywhere. I've already counted this money at my disposal, it's about 8 billion. One state budget. Something in Brussels, something goes missing, something at the second track, something for a balance sheet debt, something I don't know yet, and so on. Eight billion! And now you're talking about 400 million euros or 5% of that money. 5% is what you have at your disposal to pull this year, next year or maybe later. I find that incomprehensible. The government does not work where it is supposed to work; when we propose a solution, you are against it, and you look at it calmly when the money runs out of the health register, when the money flows out of the public sector in other areas when taxes are not recovered, but nothing. You do not propose any extraordinary session, nor any law, nor any debate in the National Assembly — nothing. This, ladies and gentlemen, is rude and this means silent support for corruption, this means silent support for tax evasion, this means silent support to anyone, but do not allow a family to receive more than 200 euros a year or 400 euros more a year. That's the problem. This is scandalous as we suggested. They talk a lot about what this proposal is like, those who I don't know, some of them haven't created or provided wages to anyone outside of public money. [[…]] I myself have been a 13-year-old employee in a large company, and I have done a lot of responsible work. Here, however, the most protesting and criticising of this proposal is those who have not yet provided the euro to anyone for the salary of non-public money. Weeping those who say the congregations will be damaged. What about the minister's proposal? And they won't be there? And I ask you, first of all, what is a citizen or a congregation? We work here for the citizens. He is also a citizen rather than a country, because those who defend the country and the congregation are the ones who, to say the least, are ethical. That is to say, you defend the supremacy of the state over anyone and in such a regime there is no respect for human rights, none. There's probably something else to say. In this case, too, the government proposes to amend this law in order to regress, €90 million, but the regress hits – how much? Six hundred thousand employees! This law, which we propose, touches more than a million and a half taxpayers. All of them. That is to say, those who are employed, including those who are retired, etc., except for compulsory youth, actually hit everyone. And I don't understand that such a solution could be bad. I would like the Ministry to tell or comment on why this is happening that you are not in the program. Second of all, why are you proposing laws, the same ones we're proposing, you don't have them on the program? Why these solutions, which the Minister is talking about, are good for the coalition and the government, but not for those that we are proposing, which are very similar, and so on. These are the answers that we are expecting today if you want to discuss and decide in a credible manner. However, it is not proper to simply say what is wrong with this proposal, but what is not, but what is missing, and on the other hand you come here, read the government opinion, put it down a little in your own way, and this is the position. As far as the budget is concerned, my fellow Members, Mr Bevk has made it clear that the Government has prepared the budget so that the Members do not see it. He passed you and your mission was to vote on the budget. Look what Mr. Bevk said! If that's how this coalition works, then it's terribly bad. So you come to stay, you don't think, you don't suggest, you don't act. I am also very concerned about the continuation of this work. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since the list of reported debaters is constantly changing, I apologize for the previous announcement made by the first debater. I missed Mr Tomaž Lisco, who is now getting his first word and preparing for Mr Nick Prebil. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Obviously, so important is the law of the coalition, because those who have been called have read the government's opinion and adapted it. Clearly, there is a difference in this National Assembly between two types of Members: Socialists or Communists who say give it to the State and it will decide on your behalf where the money is. But in Slovenia it is among the capitalists of the most socialists and communists who then explain what is public good and themselves have the money most fertilized by this capitalism. On the other hand, we are democrats, or liberals, who say give money to people and let them distribute their money. That is why I am fascinated today by the views of the LMŠ, SMC and SAB groups, which are part of the European group of liberals, but fall deep on the left side of the European political horizon. It would probably be interesting to read these views or translate them into English and send them to their colleagues in a more friendly tax environment. On the other hand, I find it fascinating how people who have supported the Minimum Wage Act are spitting under this law, which is true that some have given something and many have taken much away. For you did not rely on the warnings of experts, the Fiscal Council, if you want, unions – if you want a more human and political closer group – or in the SDS Group, when we warned you and what the bill also says about the negative consequences of the Minimum Wage Act. And despite the fact that we all voted in favour, some of us proposed and wanted further action. But what happened? Nothing. The Ministry of Finance is asleep and Members are happy that after two days the meeting will end in the first half of the year of the government, when at least three, four reform laws should be available at each meeting of the National Assembly. The result is that they go to parliamentary offices, including members of the SDS, people who show them financially, how they were not enriched by the Minimum Wages Act, but how they were hit, how they were deprived of social rights on the other hand. In short, the minimum law has happened to what some of us have warned about. But there will be some positive movement there, and above all there will be a lot of government money, and on the other hand there will not be an immediate picture in real life. So, minimum wage. You said everything was great there, everything would be bad here, even though people would get more, but about it a little later. The second thing I find fascinating today when I listen to the words “not a systemic solution”, “an inadequate law”, because it was already similar once again, is likely to be introduced again in two months because you obviously do not know how to listen to young people who go abroad, or employers, or trade unions who warn about payloads. Or say how narrow it is, although it brings a plus for every Slovenian family, and even how concerned you are about the state's public finances. Dear Members of the Coalition, you are concerned about 390 million money to be received and distributed by the people themselves, but you had no idea when your representatives signed an agreement with the Super-Communication Party of the Left, where the Chamber of Commerce, instead of government representatives, had to calculate that it would be at least 1.4 billion minus in various cash registers. In short, the downgrading of 1.4 billion for strange measures between them and, on the other hand, the harassment of over 387 million of what the state would get would have gotten less and more people. While you are applauding, when you raise a pension for two euros there, when ministers or representatives of a party of pensioners are knocking on their chests, two euros more for pensioners, on the other hand, you are disgusted that someone would get instead of 760 euros per month net 778 euros, 18 euros is a crime over the country, and two euros more for the pensioner is the heroism of the first kind. I call it simple: hypocrisy. Hypocrisy! Don't give people 18 euros more money, and someone with a minimum wage of 18 euros more in their wallets, and then you say these ugly capitalists will get the most. They're not ugly capitalists! These are people who pay their wages, sometimes they're too small, but they pay their wages. And as I said before, we must also decide in such a law whether we will invite foreigners to Slovenia, those experts you banish, or whether we will send Slovenian young educated people to a tax better environment. And I'll tell you what I've got now on one of the social networks: We now get a new financial member of our company, an American, and it comes from England. And the first thing she asked her when they told her the difference of gross neta, she said – I hope I can speak English because she is American – “Are you kidnapping me!” So much for how we are reverential to these ugly rich doctors, lawyers, highly educated, like machine engineers, if you want, and I don't know what, and when they get to Slovenia, they ask if we're stupid. On the other hand, our young people wonder whether they deserve to work in a Slovenian company or wait for an opportunity in Austrian or Slovak and, last but not least, a very modern Bosnian tax system because they have more to do there, and this is what the country takes from us. Next thing. Two thousand 200 euros would be given to someone – now it would be 78 euros more per month. 78 Euros more than a month – a living disaster! The law states that 60 euros more would be paid with an average salary, 720 euros more per year. But, no! This evil man does not deserve more than 700 euros a year, but it must be received by the state, which will then properly allocate where this money is to be put. This is the same country that has no idea how to raise European funds that push financial elasticity in key development projects and that has no idea how to recover money from tax havens. In short, those who applaud at the minimum wage, which is also partly a poor measure, are here against it. Those who had no idea when they signed a 1.4 billion-dollar agreement with Levica are now talking about a bad action. In short, the hypocrisy of those who do not know what to do in Slovenia, in the Slovenian government, in part in the Slovenian Parliament, continues. When an appropriate bill comes out that would give people a problem, and the problem is what we find over and over again, the wrong proposalr. If the same proposal were prepared by the Minister of Finance, where I would say, someone with an average salary would get 60 euros more net, but I think that all of you would grow by 3 centimeters, ministers by 5 centimeters, and 14 days in mainstream media would hear that this is a government that has not yet been in the history of Slovenia, but when the SDS proposes it, we are listening to the "non-systemic solution, inadequate" and similar footnotes from the law prepared by the SDS Group. I don’t think you’re thinking or thinking about the positive effects this marriage would have on one more thing — greater employability. I spoke earlier about how foreigners flee when they see our difference in gross-net, how our young perspectives run away, because they wonder why this difference is gross-net, and especially our employers ask themselves whether to hire or not to hire, or – which is an increasingly important case for you – to transfer the company's seat from Slovenia and give it somewhere to a more tax-optimal country. And today is the speech that these ugly SDS have proposed the Income Act and thus overstep our government's income law on regression. Firstly, I looked at the Government's National Work Programme for 2019. I wasn't worried about the Income Act. So much about how much you planned what you would do in the field of income in 2019. No, I wasn't! Secondly, we have proposed, not someone else, but the SDS has proposed because of its political agenda and we have only slightly changed the law that was already introduced to the National Assembly six months ago, but you said, no, no, it does not match, it is non-systematic, we will prepare a systemic solution, but system solutions – look – it is not. Next thing you know, the government income law touching the regression. When you said it must be urgently accepted — until when was it said today? – end of May or end of June. Ask your employers a little bit, especially those who are serious when they pay the regress. Most have already paid it, some may now have it at May’s salary, for which your government law too is late, whether we have our proposal for a law today or not. If you are in such a hurry with this income law of yours, honourable Members of the coalition, I hope you have ever heard of any extraordinary meetings where, within two days, a law can be brought through the procedure, which has already happened when smart and capable ministers and decision-makers were in the National Assembly. When we took all the measures at the 24th, 23rd December to enter into force immediately with the new year, the problem now is two months and the SDS law, how you cannot pay the regress. In short, today is a huge hypocrisy on the part of those who give two euros and have problems giving someone 60 euros. Huge hypocrisy on the part of those who have no idea what they're signing with a superstar Levican. Today this fifth amount is problematic, you resent it and so on. In short, I think that the individual numbers in this law should be even more decisive, even more for the benefit of the people. Finally, for honourable Members of the Left, I propose that you go to the real sector and support those with the highest salaries that are not only ugly capitalists, but are successful people in their positions who are far from being called bosses or directors, but because they have brought something with their knowledge, with their experiences, and paid them. Go to what successful Slovenian company, can state, but can also some less state, and see how much successful workers – not employers – earn, but workers – you slowly drive them out of the country with your words as well as your actions. When you talk about the problem, if someone with 4000 500 euros, which is very few, had more € 145 per month, how brutal that is. How much does this gentleman, who has 4 thousand 500 euros or this lady, pay in the pension box, how much does he pay in the health register, and what more does he have? When he comes to the doctor, he can show the payment sheet and he says that's how much I put in the medical checkout, and I want to be first in line. No, no! He waits, like all other citizens, regardless of their monthly income. But respectable, just because he pays more in cash, when it comes to thinking that the country will give him something, and — pof — after him and what he has, try to take and think about how everyone would have 800 euros in wages, regardless of what he would do. In short, one of us still wants to dream a little about Switzerland, and the other one takes us to Venezuela. Wrong policy! This law is a good basis for changing this ideology in the National Assembly. Here I hope, even above all, that those who knock are members of the European Liberal Party are working in the principles of socialist ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Nik Prebil has the following word and Mrs Mateja Udovč should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Honorable representative of the government and respected colleagues and colleagues! At present, ZDoh-2 is regulated so that the amount of general income relief is 3 000 302.70 euros per year, while further recognition is given to the reduction of the annual tax base of 3 000 217.12 euros for people with income of 12 thousand 166.37 euros, which in practice entails an additional burden on the recipients of the lowest income. The bill, as proposed by the SDS party or one of these versions, as has already been said, has been on the table for the third time in the last three years. The proposal seeks to reduce the tax rates by 2 percentage points in all income classes, to increase the general income allowance to 4 000 euros and to increase the income class limits by 2 000 euros, and to harmonise tax incentives and net annual tax bases with the Life Needs Price Index, regardless of their level. The applicants estimate that the actual revenue shortfall in the state budget will be low or will not be at all. This, of course, cannot be true, since the Government, on the other hand, warns that, according to the calculations, such arrangements would bring some more than €380 million less to the state treasury, and that money will have to be taken or recovered by respected colleagues. The Ministry of Finance is already preparing a proposal for tax changes, as the minister has already said, and therefore wants to relieve the work and, as a result, to support economic growth through higher spending. The employees will thus have higher net earnings and the Slovenian market will also be more competitive internationally. The income change, which is already in progress and will be in force already this year, is an additional burden on the regression. The regress to the average gross wage will not be included in the income and will also be fully exempt from social contributions; therefore, the regress will be relieved of 100 % now, this limit has been 70%. This action will also be followed by other measures that will relieve the income from work. As has already been said and announced by the Secretary of State, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the SDS party's proposal because it does not have income relief and is not in the context of the financial sustainability of the public financial revenues. We are all aware, however, that the tax burden on work is necessary. Slovenia was 14th among the EU Member States in 2017 after the burden of taxes and contributions, which is below the average of the European Union, but in Slovenia social contributions are higher than the average of the European Union – here we are in a pretty high 6th place. And we need to make these changes comprehensively and we need to maintain the stability of public finances. This proposal would also, of course, stop the payment of the higher regression already this year. And it is true that wages are overloaded, comprehensive measures within the framework of tax reform, as I have already said, the Government is preparing and I believe that this area will also be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Mateja Udovč, and Mr Franz Breznik is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. “Ugly capitalists”. It really hurts me to listen to those words, because I never think of entrepreneurs as ugly capitalists myself. I am pleased that they are successful, but we cannot forget that they are also successful because of the workers working with them. When I listen to the proposer, I cannot help but say that their proposal is positive. Above all, it is attractive; not only for employers, but for the wider population. I'd be lying if I said I didn't agree we should give the employee a higher net salary. Unfortunately, this is very difficult to do in the way proposed by the proposer, as this would lead to a very large deficit in the cash register and would be impossible to meet the needs of social groups in order to maintain the current situation. Let me reiterate that last November the SDS Group tabled a proposal for an Income Act to reduce the rate of income and increase the overall relief. The main objective of the novelty was to reduce the tax burden on workers' income, thereby increasing the net wages of workers. According to the proposal, the rate of taxation in all five income classes would be reduced by 2 percentage points and the overall relief that all taxpayers can benefit from would increase from 3 000 302 euros to 3 000 500 euros. In addition, the limits of the existing five income classes are expected to increase by EUR 2 000. Therefore, the commitments in the following income classes with higher rates of taxation would have progressed a little later than they are now. Let me point out that they have already tried a similar proposal in the SDS, but the National Assembly has rejected it. The National Assembly also rejected or voted in favour of a proposal for a law amending the Law on Income at its third meeting on 19 December 2018 that it was not suitable for further consideration. The proposed novel is therefore the second amendment to the Income Act in this mandate. From previous ones, it differs only in the increase in general income relief to EUR 4 000, and the novelty proposes further harmonisation of tax bases and the net annual tax base with the consumer price index, says inflation. Trade unions have a similar requirement. The proposed solutions are intended to provide higher net wages for all workers, regardless of their size. The tax burden on income is intended to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, reduce unemployment and the scope of the grey economy. The proposed measures provide for a decrease of EUR 387 million. However, it is estimated that the actual fallout will be significantly smaller or will not be at all. The increase in the net wages of workers will translate into consumption, thereby increasing the value added tax revenues. I would like to point out that the SDS has tabled its amendment to the Income Act only eight days after the Government has adopted a proposal for amendments to the Income and Pensions Act and to the Disability Insurance Act, which relieves income and social security contributions up to 100 % of the average wage for annual leave. The decommissioning will already apply to the current tax year. The government is sending a proposal for both legislative changes to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure in order to obtain a higher regression this year. However, as already mentioned, the SDS introduced an amendment to the same law before the Government. Its proposals, however, do not refer to the articles governing the regress, but must be dealt with in advance and then government proposals can be dealt with in the legislative procedure. While the SDS argues that their proposal is not an obstacle to the adoption of a regression change, it does not. We will therefore have to consider government proposals at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will follow this meeting or after the SDS National Assembly has rejected the amendment. Since I want all beneficiaries to be regressed as soon as possible and because a special extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will be devoted to this topic, I will vote against the proposed amendments to the Income Act proposed by the SDS. However, I will never believe that if I were in our position or if I had a government, I would actually do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word, Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to propose. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much. First of all, the lady has started her mandate now, but in 2006 we adopted a tax reform that has burdened income, income and companies for more than a billion – a billion 200 000 marks, if I am not mistaken, was then. So what you said – there is no need to doubt that we would not do that, so we are proposing laws. Secondly, ma'am, you have now been a Member of Parliament for so long that you could know that the Government, when it introduced the law by emergency procedure, could easily reach a joint hearing at the College with this law, would have done the hybrid after that 117th, 118th Article. This is not what the government or the coalition has proposed, so you have two sessions. We could do all this, but you're obviously incapable of doing it, and that's why you're going to be two sessions now. So much, just two brief explanations, and then more.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word. Get Mr. Gregor Perič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think my colleague Tanko explained a great deal to me. What we want to prove today in this debate, in this part, in fact at the only serious point in this regular April session is that we want to add this systemic solution that the Government is always talking about. Until now it has been denied – "we are looking for systemic solutions." And this government, which has no experience playing some chess with the media, we see this in the last week, and who only knows the first move in this chess, does not think about the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth moves forward. Now let's see! For the first time, we prove that raising the minimum wage also means essentially a pianist story, that on the one hand, people in 2019 only get a higher wage of €21 on the net salary of the worker, with the employer's cost rising by more than €50 and that a higher contribution of almost €30 is included. And that in 2020, at this minimum wage, at EUR 40, the net higher wage of the worker, the total cost of the employer would be EUR 113. EUR 113! If we forget everything that is going on, everything that is written by serious media around us, the cooling of the economy So, we are coming into a smaller economic crisis that is likely to occur by the end of this year with 113 euro higher contributions for the worker, while the country is likely to be looking for some solutions in the middle of the crisis, to fire as few employers as possible and to be as many employees as possible who are paying contributions. [[…]] In the fact that we have the income classes that we have, and that we have thousands and thousands of our relatives outside this country who work in Austria, Germany and so on, who have to pay their incomes and who find out each year how big the difference is, how little relief this country actually knows about the best, about people who want to do something out of their lives, about their work that have some goals, about some higher ambitions. If we look, people on a minimum wage in Austria pay up to €5.6 000 in income in the Republic of Slovenia. Sorry, this is the first issue of how much Slovenia is a social state. Another issue is what colleague Tanko explained today in the debate about 15 minutes ago, where he notes this socialist model. And I think it's my colleague, Lisec. So, you don't have any serious reliefs. At one time, we even had reliefs for additional education, reliefs for people who build their homes, reliefs for people who renovate their homes, because they invest in a future so that someone could establish a home, a social one, and so forth. All these reliefs are gone today. Today, the only relief is to force people to pay as little as possible their contributions, to avoid these taxes as possible, to flee abroad as soon as possible. This is the policy of this socialist mentality – you do not know with money, we will collect everything and then we will decide how to share it. And now look, if we leave one entrepreneur, he has 100 employees, he pays contributions, he doesn't have a higher added value, he has a few people who are above the minimum wage. This entrepreneur will come into crisis with everything I have explained, with 50 workers, say 113 euros in higher contributions per month, about 1200 euros per year, with higher costs. And what does he get from this country? Winning completely, we can say, a ruined health system, a corrupt, again a socialist health system, in certain parts of the country has neither access to a fair internet nor faster internet. This entrepreneur has a roadblock on our highways, and in the middle of the season, it has a perfect chaos, where they hit one poor toll station, which we paid again a few million. This entrepreneur sees the value of building the next tunnel in Caravanka and getting together. This entrepreneur is looking at a government that has no ambition nor to present its programme in the European Union. This entrepreneur, who pays these taxes and these larger contributions, will look at, after all, the solutions that the Government should implement into the education and education system in order to ensure that the entrepreneur receives the workers for whom this country pays around a billion euros in education. This entrepreneur is looking at why we have not introduced the complete dual education system that Austria, Germany and Bavaria have, where more than 30% of the young population relatively early begins their work, is being educated and created. And to this entrepreneur, the government, with a pear story, increased its expenditure for the second year by EUR 113 per worker who would receive a minimum wage. You tell me if we're sane. After all that the SDS is proposing, the most experienced party in Parliament, the party that even led the European Union, and in the best way, with the surpluses at that time in 2008, you are saying that we do not have a systematic approach. We are told by people who do not have relatively any experience in state policy, let alone in European politics, by colleagues who call me to a meeting of an Eastern cohesion region of a group member to talk to – tell me why I should go to some Eastern cohesion region to a meeting if, for whatever I have proposed in Parliament, these colleagues are voting against me, against any good solution. Tell me why I would be meeting as a member of the Eastern cohesion region. During this time when they had a meeting in Maribor colleagues, we made the next stage to say that HSE finally moves back to Maribor, where it has, we can say, its material, its base, from which it originated and so on. To return to income, to financial policy, this is a policy that has no development effects, that is a policy that pushes working people out of this country, and this is a policy that deals with exactly such quasi-financial reforms to give 11 000 800 public sector employees that you have employed in 3 years an additional source of public sector funding. Eleven thousand 800 people in 3 years are additional employees in the public sector. I hope that entrepreneurs do not hear this, that they see where their money goes, so all those who will have to pay if they have a minimum wage, EUR 113 per employee per month more. And that means where to get it. Dear colleagues, that is €413 million, if we look at the cost of one public sector worker with an average salary of about €35 000, I am talking about gross II and also regression. Do you imagine? For 4 and a half billion euros, you have added to our public sector costs in about 3 years. While we lack doctors, general doctors, soldiers, police officers and, last but not least, IT experts and others in the public sector, which could also add value to the public sector, as we call it a serious service part of the operation of Slovenian entrepreneurs and economies. That's the whole story of today's session. And look, of course, the Minister of Finance isn't even coming to this meeting, he's sending his other league of people here. And already in advance, the main media, which is close to the government, say that the government will not support this. How do you know they won't support this? Are those Members of Parliament determined in advance, Members of Parliament determined, the coalition, that they will not support this? So also for constitutionally defined matters that we Members have to decide for ourselves, one structure of people has already announced in advance that this will not go through. Won't it go through? We're dropping 2% in each income class. This year, because of what my colleague Tanka is proposing, my migrant workers may be able to pay a little less of this criminal income and that they will also be left with something more in their pocket to make life easier. None of this, I can see. None of that. Silence, skew arguments and continuation of great spending, what the Fiscal world is talking about, abnormal consumption and more. And these people demand even more for the functioning of the country, for the operation of certain systems and subsystems of this country, of which this country has nothing, of which this country has no better business environment and which will not have any higher added value in its products and services. As a result, the only serious point at this 7th regular session we have in April is our proposal to reduce the rates of income, raise the general ease and so on, which seems to us to be the only meaningful thing. Clearly, in our debates, we want to tell you where the solutions are and where you have added to the cost of operating the state sector. That's not what we told you. That's what the Fiscal Council told you. In addition, see, my fellow Members and colleagues, I think that there must be some maturity in this mandate as well, and that you will once have to resist what some of your colleagues are doing, and once you can vote with a serious will, with your heart and vote for the right solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Before receiving the floor of the next debater, the representative of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members! The government presented measures to change tax policy in the Economic and Social Council on 22 March. This Economic and Social Council has proposed a negotiating group, which has also met for the first time. The negotiating group consists of both employees and employers. Tax changes were also presented to employers and employers, both as regards the income scale and the corporate income tax and the capital gains. In view of the fact that all stakeholders must be involved in tax changes, it is said that we must also listen to employers on the one hand, as regards the corporate income tax and also the changes in the income scale, so that employers and employees must be heard. Now, just a little bit of statistics. We have in the first income class, where the rate of taxation is 16%, 1 million 63 thousand 530 taxpayers. If we change the rate of taxation from 16 to 15, that means 53 million less tax revenue. It is said that we must also be aware of the dynamics of the taxpayers in individual tax classes. In the first class, where taxation is 16%, we have 1 million 63 thousand 530 taxpayers, in the second class, where the current rate of income is 27%, there are 372 thousand 817 taxpayers and in the third class there are 75 thousand 343. Where tax is 50%, we have only 3 000 615 taxpayers. We need to be aware of all the consequences of the change for each percentage point in tax changes on the scale. It is also necessary to look at what is happening by increasing the general tax relief. If we raise the general tax relief by 100 euros, income from income is reduced by 18 million. About the regressions, because we were asked earlier how many regressions were paid. We did an analysis on the payment of the regression in 2018. The main part of the regression in 2018 was paid in May and June. In May 2018, the number of commitments received was 121 000 216 and in June was 504. It is said that the data that the regressions were paid before April and May is not correct. The highest percentage of the regression is paid in May and June. Regarding the social security contribution rate. In fact, we are among the workers of one of the most taxed countries. On average wages, employees with taxes and contributions in the tax box accounted for nearly 42.9% of the amount of income – for a single person without children – it is said that workers in Slovenia are actually taxed with taxes and contributions to the greatest extent. I would also like to say again about the corporate income tax. In 2017, there was an effective tax rate on corporate income tax of 13.1%, it is said that there is nothing on average here, even under the average of the European Union countries. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The applicant has entered the floor. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you. This bill proposed by us has nothing to do with unions or employers. This bill is an exclusive relationship between the taxpayer and the Republic of Slovenia, I think the Government, this is the real state budget. I don't know why this would be the subject of social coordination and the Economic and Social Council if it didn't concern the unions directly and neither did the employers. This is a proposal for the State to give up the work of excessive tax burdens on the employee, as the Secretary of State said a little earlier. On the other hand, there's something else. The solutions that you are negotiating, which you are talking about in the Economic and Social Council, are similar to ours. It is therefore necessary to change the income scale, to change the tax rates, to change the overall relief, and not to do something on a case-by-case basis, it will probably be necessary to think about valorisation or the automatic harmonisation, as is the case elsewhere. This is said to also entail administrative simplifications that it will not always be necessary either to adopt a regulation or to amend the law. But the problem is there, as colleagues have said, typical of the tax system we have, that workers working in Austria are so-called migrant workers. There, for a thousand 500 euros, they pay all their obligations and get 200 euros more than they would get on the Slovenian income scale. There is so much difference between the Austrian tax system and Slovenia in the same salary. As a result, there were no worse health services there in Austria, there were certainly no waiting periods, there was no poor education system, not to mention other matters related to the standard of human beings. But when this man returns to Slovenia, he has to pay special income from the difference. Now tell me if it's rational, meaningful or not. I don't think so. And something needs to be done in this area. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Now he really gets the word, Mr. Gregor Perič, and he's getting ready for Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll start with that. In fact, I'm just going to agree that you're in the SDS in this house among the most experienced, but you're also covered with all the complaints, and we've seen this more than once. We can understand from this context many things, perhaps even from the point of view of some political survival, that it is very important that you own a media house, what kind of television, what kind of newspaper, and then it is easier to send your political and other messages to the system. I'm sure that helps. However, if I focus on today's topic, what I have just mentioned is not irrelevant in today's subject matter, because it is a general matter. So, the proposal for a law amending the Income Act is in some way also touching the recent raise of the minimum wage. On the basis of this measure, which we have achieved, so by raising the minimum wage, there is nothing wrong with it, but when we tackle some such legislation, which also has a systemic impact on a number of acts, many laws, we must be very careful because this is particularly reflected in many aspects. If we focus on this, we open up some needs, a whole series, a whole set of needs, a series of chain reactions followed, and then some harmonisation pressures, if a legislative act was not well thought out. I think we have exactly one proposal on the table that addresses the issue on the one hand, i.e. if we look from the point of view of the country, its revenue, if we look at it from the point of view of the citizen, its income. In this respect, the country receives slightly less than 400 million less in cash, according to the proposal we have on the table. There is nothing fundamentally wrong with such proposals, but we need to know how we will either make up for this 400 million on the other hand or with some other measures to ensure that these 400 million costs do not occur. If we think a little bit more broadly, we can look at a reduction in rates in all income classes, and instead of 2 percentage points, we can propose a reduction of 3% or 4% or more, then instead of an increase in the general income allowance to 4000 euros, we can change this amount again, and then, by increasing the income class limits by 2 000, this amount is different again, and the harmonisation of tax bases and the net annual tax base with the Life Needs Price Index. In fact, this indexation seems to me like some mechanism that is even the most correct and reflects reality at some point in our economy. When we talk about raising wages as such, we can take two paths. On the one hand, we can unload tax mechanisms or burden employers more, so that employers have to pay their employees better with some stimulus. This can be done simply by some legislative measure. I think that the most meaningful and appropriate solution is the combination of both, that is to say, finding some balance in this sense, which cannot go beyond social dialogue as such. I regret that we recently skipped him a little bit, which is a shame. As it is said, in raising wages, this measure, i.e. raising wages, is best shown just by indexation. Where the cost of living is rising, wages should also be monitored accordingly. On the other hand, as a country, this would be, in particular, a weight on the part of the economy, have a generally agreed medium-term plan to raise the minimum or average wages, where the economy could also know what is ahead of it in one year, in three years, in five years, and it would be appropriate to adapt and be able to respond appropriately, adapting its expenditure, investment and all other steps that are also dependent on wages as one of the costs of their work. The numbers on the ratios themselves, about how much of the raise of the minimum wage belongs to the worker, how much it belongs to the country, I see above all as a single warning that when we are preparing some legislative proposals to give them a very good and thorough thought, and especially with the laws on the door to the nose, we do not rush, because they may then have some hidden effects that we need to eliminate or mitigate in some other way, and this in particular constitutes a disturbance in the system and in the final stage also a dissatisfaction with our citizens and citizens of all those services that perform some public service, some public service. This proposal that we have on the table, as I have already said, is another in a series of those laws that have large-scale public financial effects, and we are not talking about a million, two, but, as I have already said, hundreds of millions. Specifically 390 million, which is not exactly a small one. Unfortunately, however, this proposal is weak on the other hand because it does not indicate how, if this law were to be adopted, then this 400 million would somehow make up for, either get in or reduce certain costs in the field of the country. This proposal represents some systemic measure that would be long-term. So this is not a single financial impact, but it is a financial effect that is repeated from year to year. That is precisely why much more caution is needed and consideration needs to be given to the matter. If we just accepted it and said yes, and we would do nothing, it would simply be reflected in the increase in public debt. Here again is the eternal question of whether to rely on procyclical or acyclic policies. I wouldn't open up this area or this subject because we've never opened it, and I think it's more of an economic college. I'll finish it the next way. The very direction of reflection is not that bad, but it seems to me that the proposal is incomplete and incomplete in this sense, particularly on the side of income loss. Above all, the question is whether it comes at the right time. In a very broad political, economic, theoretical sense, we witnessed something similar before the crisis that hit Slovenia, Europe or the world in 2009 and beyond. That loss of income has also been a very heavy burden on the budget, and represents an additional burden, an additional problem, including the search for some balance and higher expenditure on social services, which has driven our public debt to a very high level. All of you also mention in the SDS that the economic situation at this time is slightly more uncertain. I believe that circumstances like those in the past will not happen again, or I hope that they will not happen again, but we must be careful and careful enough. That is why I cannot support such a proposal, even though it also has a measure or solution that is not at all bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Since Mr Logar has resigned from the debate, Mr Primož Siter should be prepared next, and Mr Tanko will be given the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Just a few brief comments. The Income Act cannot be completed by compensatory measures, by taxing companies with, I don't know, real estate taxes and so on. This is a law that concerns only the personal position of a taxable person. So what you are saying, Mr candidate for a European Member, has nothing to do with the bill and the matter. Secondly, when you talk about the plan, what will happen in three years, the government is unable to prepare a normative programme for two months ahead. Two months ahead. I explained it to you earlier and you can look. And now all those MPs in the coalition who want more are simply philosophies. Look, it's on your desk. On 19 January, I think he was sent to the National Assembly. As far as these media houses and these stories are concerned, the following. With regard to nominations for domestic or European Members, RTV journalists have run on SD list. It's a couple of cases. With regard to the application on the list of LMŠs, a journalist from POP TV ran. And as for the payment of services to various media spin houses and so on, you have Futura, Approach, you have funding from the second track and consequently your minister's resignation. So when you talk about some stories, first look at yourself, yours, and who manages a media system or a submedia system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter has the following word and Mrs Monika Gregorčič should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will begin very casually, without abstractions, without philosophy, so that we will all understand well and understand the general public. Numbers, of course. I'll repeat our opening position. The proposed novel would be translated into practice in a way: one successful manager, a director who earns 9,000 euros a month, in this case would get an added 250 euros a month, which is not much at all, that is one of such little more concrete lunches that such a person can afford, buy one tie for 250 euros or I don't know what. The manager, for example, or someone who earns 4 thousand 500 euros, would come up with an additional 145 euros after this novel, which is not a large sum of 4 thousand 500, but it is a nice sum. An engineer with a salary of €2 000 200 would get an additional €87, a worker or a worker with a net salary of about €760, and a month would enrich for an additional €18, which is about 3 tickets, my tickets for the Trbovlje-Ljubljana train. Three tickets. And this whole family, this whole discussion on the subject "we are working for a small man to get 18 euros a month" is one big smoke screen with change to cover up the new privilege of the richest who are once again the most profitable. But I'm not just pointing my finger at my right-wing colleagues. The history of Slovenian politics is quite daring in this direction to give privileges to the richest. The first such point was the 2006/2007 Bajuk-Janš reform. You have abolished the 50 % ceiling of the highest grade, reduced income in all classes, which has, of course, been the most beneficial to those with the highest income, eliminated income from capital from total taxation, reduced the corporate income tax from 25 to 20. And then the second Janša government, a new phase, a reduction in tax from 20 to 17%, where, of course, the richest are again profiting. Then the next two stages. In Cerar's government, once again, the reduction, the decommissioning of the highest wages, the higher than 1.6 times the average wage, which fell to about 10% of the most powerful. Cerar's government has done this twice in its mandate. Always the same denominator, similar measures, and the common denominator of everything adding new and new privileges to those who are already so and so most wealthy. But now we're going on ice again, on that same novel that's on the bench. The idea of today's novel, today's treatment is bad. On a scale of 1 to 10 is bad at 11. It is poor because it shows a shameless lick of Slovenian capital policy, it is bad because it is worthless for general prosperity in the country, and it is bad because it is worthless for the state budget. It's going down. It is charged with an additional EUR 387 million. One shameless licking of the capitalist class, nothing else. They're just to keep the proposer's good relations with his rich friends. Of course, under the pretense that the one who contributes most with his productivity should take the most. But who in the work process contributes most with their creativity, with their hands, ideas, sweat and so on? Is it just this one person who runs this process, or is it a crowd of those who realize this idea in practice? How valuable is an idea without those that are being implemented in practice for an additional €18? I'll finish. When we talk about tax policies, tax reforms, tax burdens and so on, we must always bear in mind the weakest. The tax burden must always be imposed progressively and go in the opposite direction when we talk about the burden. So the more you contribute, the less you make, the less you contribute. The more you get, the more you survive, the less you get, the more solidarity you get. This is the core of civilisation and social states. All other debates on tax burdens and tax policies are irrelevant, are non-social, unfair, inhuman, non-civilised and hand-to-hand completely unrelated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The replica has Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'm replicating Mr. Tank. Either I'm making a point or not, it's just a matter of judgment. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, excuse me? If we use discredits, it's obviously a lack of some arguments, especially when someone doesn't blow the same horn. On those insights around Future, I think we have already repeated thousands of times that we have not cooperated with Futura in the SMC, that the model has cost zero euros and so on, but if someone has problems with judgements, with taking loans from abroad, with understanding the law on financing political parties, what a sixteen-fold average salary means and so on, I find it difficult to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u97	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying and allowing this late replica. I don't know why Minister Leben stepped down because of his accession, do I? Wrong approach to model two. That was your minister. So much so that we won't be doing left and right philosophies here. First, fuck the ashes, then point your finger forward. With regard to the debate on the Left, I ask, my fellow Member, why we are not yet on the floor. I ask you why, among you, there are so many wishes among your Group for a fifth of the work, additional to the work of Parliament. Here you teach some slogans about socialism, equality, justice to people who have worse wages, and you build and fight for a higher standard. Then why are you running for the European Parliament? Because the wages are even higher there and the ratings are even higher. Be consistent, say, we don't go to European stories, we want minimum salaries for Members and so on. In short, it's a problem. As for the rest of the measures taken by the Janša government, we did reduce the corporate income tax, but that money remained in companies and went to smart investment masters. It is true that we have also introduced investment concessions additionally for companies in tax matters, but also that money went for investments in knowledge, new projects, new jobs and so on. Everything has turned around in a better position of employees and even better wages after all, because if you were making a more competitive product, you also got a better financial profit and you could share more. So these slogans about how everything should be the same don't work. After all, we have a whole bunch of cases on a global level, where it's a matter of trying to do it, and at the same time, they stole everything that's left of what they didn't share, more than enough, Zimbabwe, Venezuela, and Cuba has been so far and so on, and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I must answer Mr. Tank. As far as minimum wages and Members are concerned, I do not know why anyone in this country should be on minimum wage. The second thing about European elections is that I am convinced that people who want to engage in the European Parliament want to engage in changing the policies of the European Union, not because they have a higher salary. But at least now I know exactly what your motivation is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u102	What we propose refers to relative criteria. This is said to be true when, as a percentage of a base, you account for something, there are certainly differences, as with pensions, as with many others. If you want to change anything, put one pay grade in the public sector or something else to make it all the same. And you, then, be the same to all those citizens you say they have too little. Give them 500 more euros from your salary or 2,000 euros – you obviously have too much – and everyone will be happy and you will draw others behind you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word to prepare for Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Finally, we can return to the topic of today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, you may have heard a key sentence from our point of view today to welcome the basic purpose of your proposal for the law, because, like government reform, the same objectives of tax burdening labour costs are being pursued. Yes, we could finally say that we're going the same way, except of course the left-wing group, because they obviously want to be very special populisms. In view of the topic here today, I would have been able to repeat my debate a few months ago, but I am pleased to note that this is not necessary because the Ministry of Finance has clearly followed the commitments of the Coalition Treaty and has also listened to the arguments of our debate today and has prepared proposals for tax changes that will burden the work so that people will receive higher net wages, which will accelerate domestic consumption and the Slovenian labour market will make the work market more internationally competitive. The net wages will rise proportionally, and higher increases will be received by those who generate higher added value. These are mainly highly-educated staff, and this is also the answer literally to the deception that was taken in today's position and also later in the debate by a fellow Member from the Left. In fact, higher increases will not only be given to directors, managers, but mainly to highly qualified professionals who create higher added value. So I don't know what your colleagues in the Left are up against a highly skilled workforce. As far as vulnerable groups are concerned, the government has already taken care of them at the beginning of the mandate by raising the minimum wage and raising social transfers. This government and the Ministry of Labour have a hearing about social issues and misleading or manipulating this topic is not appropriate, indeed not. With regard to the dynamics of the projected tax burdens announced by the Minister of Finance this year, it is said that the tax burden on annual leave is projected and a larger package of tax burdens is expected in the coming year with regard to the burden of labour costs. It is therefore expected to amend the system tax laws before the end of this year, as they must be enforced before the start of next year. Why this is not in the Government's normative programme of work, I hope that the Secretary of State will give you any answer. Maybe even as far as you're concerned, why doesn't the coalition want to confirm the opposition proposal, your marriage? Does it not seem logical to you that the Government is the one who is planning, coordinating and leading its tax reform rather than leaving it to the opposition? I'm sure if you led the government, you'd do the same. This is too important a state policy, for state finances, for the budget, for financial stability, so the reason is completely substantive and not political. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mark Bandelli has the word to prepare Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you, President, for your word. This debate cannot be said as if it were welcome. I can only thank the SDS for opening up the issue and finally saying things as they must be said. That's what we have to say. Now I have to watch what I'm saying, because every thing I say, the media picks up in such a way that you can't think. I just mentioned about alcohol that I don't agree with the reduction in the limit from 0.5 to 0.2, and a whole hall was created. Let's not talk about transvestites, let's not talk about reigrats. This is our country. These are the things we have to solve here now. Are we going to save the country with a regression so we won't let them? And if they come to my house, I have tens of thousands of square meters of regatta for everyone, if they want, that's no problem. Let's go over the subject and talk about why it's going here. I apologize, before, my friend Tomaž, that we are socialists, Communists – believe me, I am not a socialist and even less communist. I absolutely distance myself from this thing, I have an entrepreneurial heart and a social heart, so I'm also kind of in this part of Parliament, if I can say it here. But with regard to the proposals made by the SDS, I think that things need to be said once, as they are true, not only to say who is against, who is against, who is against, because they have made a proposal, we must be a priority against, because the government could give it and it would be different. I would absolutely agree here, 100 percent, because I think it's a burden. Suggests a reduction of 2 percentage points, an increase in the general income allowance by 4 thousand, these are all good things – how could one not say that this is right for a worker? It's coming, it's going right into the employee's pocket. Directly. Of course, the government then tells them and answers them in such a way as to say that it is not to accelerate the economy as it is. But we do certain things, the proposal was to relieve wages, that said, I think, even in a coalition contract in one way or another, and to stay in the pocket of a worker, an employee. Then there's another problem. But here is a problem that I will unfortunately have to hold and vote as it was agreed, because it is probably not possible at this point to do all of this in a single document, in a single law. It's actually ready to unload the regression, which I think is extremely good. I don't understand Left, I'll never understand certain things Left, I'm sorry, but I can't. It is true that it is about the wages that Tankko said, because that was their slogan – to give to the minimum or not know what it was, what it was. Now it is interesting to compete for the European Parliament, and there are more, and there are also opportunities. I want you to come in, but let's leave it, that's not an argument for today. He's crying. How will we demand that we, I say, always us entrepreneurs, pay our employees? The market, the market, it's, it's just, it dictates bigger wages. Discharge of the economy, this is a very important matter. For me, it's still overloaded, tax overloaded. Now we're going to raise the rate, I was the only one who was against, from 25 to 30% and everything, but that's how it's gonna be. [[Incomprehensible]] However, it still proves that it is not true that we are still below the average of tax rates according to European level. You know, we're talking about wages. And when it comes to salaries, because we've done everything to get public servants to get one, two, even three classes more. Three. With us, we fear that Members will correct the ten-year stagnation of our wages. The parishioners! Where are the mayors here?Oh, my God! Where are the mayors now?Oh, my God! The responsibilities the mayors have, personally, I will tell you, I am a Member now, I have much less responsibility than I had when I was mayor. You're responsible for everything! Everything! Whatever you do. He's always the undersigned mayor. He's never the one who's in charge. Where are the mayors' salaries? Why don't the mayor's salary get fixed? I'll give you an initiative. Here's where I'm going to say that what Levi said is, really, the more you get, the more you give, the less you get, the less you give. But there has to be one limit. There's got to be a limit once. It can't always be you picking up 50% of your salary. Because that's what it is, fair enough. The employee costs you 100 percent more than what he gets in his pocket. Here we have to tell you what's foreign, why our people are going abroad. It is also important to say that the cost of living is different from ours abroad, that we do not have the property tax they have abroad. That's what you have to say. Water, electricity, everything costs less, certain things. The cost of living is important. But to burden ever more and more high wages, it's not right. And that's that famous cap, and we had a lot of debate about it at the time, because there was nothing we could do to get out of it. Here the SDS proposes one thing, I'll repeat it, I support it. I will not be able to vote for the reason I said before, but I will still support any thing that will show that it is to relieve taxes on wages, taxes on work. That's what I'll do. But systematically. Not systematically, as they think here, it means that we make a whole marriage for everyone because it can't be. Since I see here, I have read the government report now, I think it's written even 383 million less money on the revenue side. If that's true. But you asked yourself, why isn't that pensioner proposal that we should also work after retirement going on? Do you know what the problem is? Because there's a lot of talk here, and then you don't really know what it is. Because it costs 70 million Euros a country. 70 million Euros cost the country. That's the data, the math. Why? Because gentlemen professors, notaries, lawyers who also work after this working period receive 20% of the pension and are paid to stay at work. That way, the state doesn't have to fund them! That must be said why! Because it costs 70 million Euros a country! Who's privileged here? You have to say things the way they are. I'm going to conclude by saying I'm sorry that the marriage is good, the proposal is good, I repeat, I say honestly. And even if there are further progressive changes to this matter, I will support it. Now it's time to regress. And since I know it's up to you, I'm gonna say no. I won't refuse because of the SDS, I'll refuse just for the reason that it's necessary. I repeat, that's a good suggestion. Good for the economy, too. Good for the economy. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart has the word to prepare for Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The government and the Ministry of Finance have proposed a comprehensive tax reform of optimisation based on the balance of public finances, and we are also gradually bringing it to life. This is the task and obligation of this government. This takes into account all stakeholders that have an impact both on the revenue and on the expenditure side, and in particular on the prudential treatment of taxes, value added tax, excise duties, income, corporate income tax, capital income and other tax revenues, as well as, of course, the contribution rates on gross and gross wages intended primarily for health and pension allowance. Taxes are not human survival destroyers, but on the contrary, they are a protective mechanism to provide social and developmental care for all the structures of the people of a nation. The lack of tax revenues and their disproportionate distribution have a detrimental effect on the lives and future of poor people around the world and explain why taxes are so important in the fight against world poverty. In doing so, it is important to ensure the solidarity of capital, to prevent illegal capital flight and tax evasion. The key question is where the money for the payment of services, access to health services, education, clean water, sanitation, adequate living conditions will come from, the provision of fundamental protection of rights, the provision of income during the third development period and a number of other basic services. Of course, we know a number of tax policies in the world that have a significant impact on development incentives with priorities such as promoting investment for greater growth, supporting employment, reducing inequalities, ensuring compliance with tax obligations. Tax policies are the challenges we face in these areas, and for us they are certainly comparatively important countries of the European Union, in which we also belong. We also know different forms of tax policy in this area of the European Union, with large differences in the share of taxes relative to GDP. Slovenia belongs to taxes collected together with income tax in the European Union's gold, or even slightly less. In doing so, I note one fundamental point: that more developed countries collect more taxes and provide greater social security for the population, while developing countries collect less resources from taxes and ensure lower social security for the population. Developing countries thus rely to a greater extent on aid and loans that they tighten in the long term and make them dependent. Paying taxes brings independence. Taxes are a more reliable and predictable source of funding than aid and loans. Contrary to aid and loans, tax revenues can be an unlimited source of such resources. Taxes help governments to behave more responsibly towards their citizens. The higher the tax revenues of a government, the more its citizens tend to pay attention to how they are used. And if the government finances its budget more from taxes than from aid, it is more responsible to its citizens than to donor countries. Increasing tax revenues therefore helps to improve the governance of the country and promotes greater democraticism of the political system. Tax systems determine how wealth is distributed between rich and poor. In progressive tax systems, rich people pay more and poorer taxes, so taxes are an important tool to address economic and social inequalities in both the country and the world. Slovenian tax policy is based on self-financing with a high level of social solidarity. Unfortunately, in the past period, due to the untransparent transition and unbalanced public finances, we have grown a high share of the debt. This debt is our trauma, and today it is the biggest bar of further development. However, we must live with this and continue to behave rationally, prudently and in particular accountable to taxpayers. If we do not follow this, we will lose the trust of citizens, taxpayers. The proposal itself for a law amending the Income Act is by no means acceptable and poses a great deal of danger. It reduces tax revenues by 387 million, as has already been pointed out several times today, which would lead to a budgetary deficit compared to the 2019 budget, and would thus severely violate the fiscal rule, which we are already calling so much attention to at the current surplus budget. The proposal does not provide a solution to how to cover this deficit with other taxes or where to reduce revenue to balance finances or budgets. With such a partial proposal, the proposer cannot convince me of the sustainability of the change, especially since we have been facing the great challenges of an ageing population, which requires higher resources from us especially for health and pensions. We will therefore have to increase taxes, but to what extent it depends on economic growth itself, effective governance and rationalisation of sectors and the responsibility of public spending itself. We all want to live quality and longer, and we will have to spend more money to do so. It is our responsibility that these taxpayers' funds will be used rationally and transparently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič has the word to prepare Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to respond to this last gentleman's debate before me, which obviously does not have some basic things cleared up. First of all, I think it's very important that I stress that the most important thing, and we all have to be aware that there is more to be created, then we can share more. And certainly not with extra tax burdens! How can we stimulate those who have to invest in technology, higher wages and so on, if we raise their taxes on employees, on everything else and so on, so that I don't go into detail? Dear Sir, I would believe that you would know at least a little about the economy if you discussed it in the way that I have said it in the first place. First, it is necessary to create an appropriate environment in which employers and those who invest, create and thus give significantly better and better wages to employees. Not by raising taxes, as you said. And the second thing, dear Mr and distinguished colleagues and colleagues in Parliament, I am sure that every good master, every good entrepreneur, is still aware of how important it is that workers are paid well. Then the workers are satisfied and productivity is higher. Every normal master, every good employer is aware of that. If I touch the Left a little bit, I can't get past it, because when I listened to the debater today before he left this place, he was really talking about nebulosis, which is simply not acceptable to the National Assembly. Among other things, he spoke of some 18 euros, and I doubt that he did the right thing to calculate what the workers would get under this law. I'd like to warn you and remind you again of the Minimum Wage Act. After that law, the worker received 21.51 euros per month, and the country received 29.39 euros per month, so that employees with these lowest incomes in most cases face the following problem: the loss of social transfers or the share of social transfers, children's allowance, state scholarships, the reduction of payments for kindergarten and subsidies for lunch, lunch and so on, and eventually those who raised their minimum wage will get a minus! Not in 2019 21,51 per month increase in minimum wage. That's the thing. And I'm sure that when this minimum wage was being prepared, we should think about it. We thought about it in this marriage! When I read our key goals and major solutions, you'll see that we've been thinking about it. This law also corrects this situation. I cannot understand that people in this House are imposing certain things that are very ill-considered or completely reckless, but on the other hand they are objecting to what we have proposed in this law. I always hear that the state budget cannot follow anything, but we could have followed the EUR 500 million increase in public and state spending. Wasn't that a problem?Oh, my God! But that wasn't the problem?Oh, my God! Who took these decisions and those solutions?Oh, my God! Who?Oh, my God! That government, that coalition! For half a billion, and there were no problems, no reservations, no problems. Now that it is necessary to ensure here when it comes to employees, when it comes to those workers who are on the verge of survival, and so on, and there is no money. It's always the same story. It's always the same story. What bothers me terribly is this socialist way of thinking – the state must have everything in its hands so that it can keep under strict control a complex nation, employers, employees and so on. That's the wrong philosophy. And this socialist system has been making this mistake from the very beginning, from the very existence to the present day, so it has failed! Now let's go back to this law. I'm going to read the goals and the main solutions again so we can know what we're talking about. Among other things, the aim of the bill is to provide higher net wages for all workers regardless of the level of their salaries. We propose that net wages be increased by tax relief, by reducing rates in all income classes, increasing general income relief, increasing income class limits and harmonising tax incentives and net annual tax base through the Life Needs Index, inflation. The main solutions are: a reduction in the rate in all income classes by 2 percentage points, an increase in the general income allowance to EUR 4 000, an increase in the income levels by EUR 2 000, and a coordination of tax incentives and a net annual tax base with the Life Needs/Inflation Price Index irrespective of their level. We propose that these solutions be applied to the 2019 income already. With these measures, we will also achieve, in addition to increasing net wages for all workers, that workers with a minimum wage, despite its increase, will not pay significantly higher income. This will result in the majority of the impact of wage increases on improving the material situation of workers and their families, rather than on the charging of state cash registers, as is the case under the current regime. For a worker with an average salary, the adoption of the proposed solutions would mean around €60 higher net monthly salary, representing around €720 more income at the annual level. These are the key arguments why we have actually put this law into the parliamentary procedure. I am convinced that all of us sitting in this House, if we have a real interest in helping employees, that is, workers, we can adopt this law, we can do in the further procedure, we can do all that is necessary, what the coalition thinks is wrong, or the Government, and really once we are going in the right direction to relieve workers' wages and all that I think is absolutely necessary for the economy to develop normally, so that we can start creating some normal economic environment, so that employers, craftsmen can also, because there are already many such entrepreneurs and craftsmen in Slovenia who see that they have very good, very suitable salaries, and this because they have a higher added value. So, more needs to be done so you can share more. I think that's what's important.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The law is proposed because the burden of work with taxes and income in Slovenia is one of the highest in the European Union countries. The latest OECD survey again showed that Slovenia is the first on the scale following the share of the worker's contributions of 19 %. If we relieve ourselves as proposed by the new Income Law, we also relieve jobs of higher and highly qualified staff. Colleagues from the Left say that this is bad, that we will now reduce taxation for those who are tycoons, rich and so on. Madam Secretary of State said that the majority of people in the first income class are over a million. The ones in the top grade are only 3,000. So we're not going to be these 3 grand that I don't know how to make rich, settle or facilitate, but it's mainly about the first, the second income class, where most people are, and a million are about, and a half, and a bad million are. And I don't know if it's bad to burden those who are highly qualified and therefore also slightly better paid, but still, as you can see, they go abroad every day just for payment and taxation. Much also because of the conditions, but much in fact because abroad they can make more money and have the feeling that their work is appreciated, unlike the situation in us. If all of these go abroad, the colleague of the Left says that there are important workers in the company who work in different jobs, not only directors – yes, but the director is the one who invests in development, who thinks about how he will expand the halls, how he will additionally hire and so on. [[…]] There wouldn't be a lot of new jobs if things didn't happen that way. He had already told his colleague Tanko what had happened when we in the past governments were burdened with work, and how wrong this philosophy is only to raise taxes on profits. See, according to the Economic Chamber, only 12% of profits are spent by the manager for his needs, 88% invests back in the company, says, make new halls, buy new machines, hire new people. Isn't that the point? Is that not the point — that we will not talk about minimum wage, but that all people who will be employed will have decent wages with which they will be able to support their families with dignity? A colleague from the Left said the least they'd get is those with the lowest wages. You have recently raised wages in the public sector, and progress has slowed down – what did this look like? The lowest got promoted one pay grade, and they got the middle one two. So, was there anything on the left? Logically, it should be the other way around, the lowest one should get promoted by two classes and the middle one maybe by one. There's no resistance to that or any comments. That must be a little unfair, you might say. Some colleagues and colleagues said that the amendment of the law was narrowly targeted. It's narrowly focused, but it's going to hit a million and a half people. Your proposal for a regression that will hit 600,000 people is not narrowly targeted. More than half. At the very least, things need to be read, if not something else, and they need to be understood that I am not using any other expression. You tell us to hurry with the changes and we should think about it, talk about it, and so on. Your minister also announced that the income scale would not change until next year, but that general and additional relief would also be increased. So that's what we're suggesting. Is this interview a pretty big deal? The next year we will do this, and the second year may be the next year, but the crisis may be put off for a while again – as such proposals were also made by the previous finance minister in the previous government, and nothing happened then. But we have repeatedly proposed that no marriage is the same as the previous one, but they are different. However, if there were really any intention of changing and correcting things, we would think about things and we would be able to bring some smart solution by now, but not attacking us about what you are doing and investing again – yes, because nothing comes of you. Not from the previous government, nor from the current government, in which half of you sit or even more. The changes are fast. We've just seen how it happened to us or there's been a quick change with the Minimum Wage Act, which has caused quite a few problems. Similarly, raising financial social assistance without considering other things. Yeah, well, who's even gonna work if the gap between minimum wage and cash assistance is minimal compared to the one that works 8 hours a day? It is worth more to sit at home and apply for social assistance, and you get the allowance, which in the midst of a little bit of bullying earns more in the end than the one who normally goes 8 hours a day to work. With such measures, we are causing exactly that the work will not be worth it and that everyone is looking for some options so that we do not have to work. And if you are so precise, the Secretary of State has calculated that 383 million euros will be less collected in the budget, which is true, but you could probably, or at least roughly, calculate how many different inflows there will be because people will have more. Most of you said that it's usually what people spend on the things they need every day. So, everything we pick up, and we take the tax off of it. Electricity, utilities, LPPs in Ljubljana, kindergartens, nursing homes and so on are on the line. Here all over the country has its own ticket, the value added tax that people pay. It is very unfair to say that we will raise 383 million euros less. We don't know exactly how many tides there will be. Therefore, it will certainly not be less than €383 million, because on the other hand there will also be income under this heading. From elsewhere, people will make their own decisions, but the country will not distribute them. Because now, from what we're picking up, a third of the country's spending is very poor. It's also the main evidence of entrepreneurs and all of them. People don't have a problem paying taxes, if that's somehow cleverly used. But if we're wasting this money, paying for medical equipment, and so on, then we all have problems, and we all disagree, and we probably have to pursue this, and then you can read anything to this marriage. So if what your minister says is actually the intention – see, your minister says that we will increase the overall relief, let's sit down and see how much the optimum number is, or let's do some step-by-step or whatever. You know, that's why it's very hard for us to believe that in an interview for Finance, Mr. Secretary says that, but also here, he says that this is not the right solution. But after he decides, how much is this general relief? If we were to do something serious, we would sit down and discuss it, or as a matter of procedure in the National Assembly, instead of rejecting the law today, we would discuss it on the committee. The Ministry would have made additional calculations, too, because we already know something, we have led the government in this country several times and have taken measures that have produced results. Perhaps that, too, was previously reported to have reduced taxes and so forth in the first of Janša's governments. Yes, and as a result, together with the SD in the development partnership – also the SD voted in favour of those tax changes – from 120 thousand unemployed to 55,000. What happened? Like I said, if you lower the burden on businesses, the entrepreneur invests in his company. In Slovenia there are the most medium-sized and small businesses, these are family companies, family members are employed and no one will exhaust their own business because tomorrow he and his children do not have a job. That's why they're investing people back in the company. Like I said, they buy new machines, they build new halls, and they hire new people. This is how we save unemployment. But that, I don't know how they understand it, but apparently not with your colleagues in Levica, even if you tell them a hundred times and draw. I propose that you vote in favour of the law and then look at things in more detail on the committee and determine if maybe not all of our proposals are acceptable for the Ministry to say what is possible and what is possible, and together we do something. You keep saying that there is a need to cooperate, cooperate, but you do not take any of our proposals into account, nor do you want to listen to it, nor do you want to debate it, which I regret because it is not a parliamentary job. I would like them to be a little bit more like the European Parliament, where the European People's Party and the Socialists coordinate things so long that they come to a common solution and mostly do not vote on each other, but talk and find the best solutions for everything. That's how we're supposed to work here. I really don't understand that we're so on the trenches, everyone on their beach, and what we're proposing is not right. And we support a lot of yours, you know. Where we think and see that things aren't right, let's note that. At the minimum wage, that's exactly what we warned. Also in – now we have problems with family doctors, 2017 you have adopted a change in the law that caused specialists to have to study or train under mentoring for three years before they can work. Crazy! There is no European state anywhere, only we have accepted it under Milojka Kolar – so not us, you fellow SD colleagues, colleagues from SMC, colleagues from Desus. And now let's think about it for three months instead of putting an end to this nonsense as soon as possible and making it easier for ourselves. But, you know, that's when we said exactly the same thing, and no one wanted to listen. Just like it's happening to us right now. So I invite you to listen a little bit and not take everything as an attack or as if I don't know what, but some well-intentioned suggestions to make it all better in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The list of reported debaters is shrinking so that as the last word, he has a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As mentioned above, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that economic growth should also mean higher revenues for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In other words, civil economic growth should also be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have re- tabled in the legislative procedure a law amending income, namely a law amending income, which entails decommissioning, reducing tax burdens and raising wages, not at the expense of additional burdens on the economy, but paying less tax. The fact is that, through today's debate, we can come to the conclusion that the coalition Members and Members and, I would say, the non-cooperational Members and Members will not support this proposal. And among the arguments for that, it seems to me that none of them are the ones who would convince us of the matter. At the beginning, you used: “This law makes it difficult to change income or tax procedures in relation to the proposed change in regression.” That's not true. The second time you said, "Look, you didn't specify what this would mean for smaller revenue in the budget area." But I'll ask myself otherwise. The proposaler, Comrade Tanko, has already told you that the higher taxes I'm in, on the income issue, we can't put them in. But I'm sure you, as the ruling coalition, should find this revenue outage. I'll give you two suggestions. Approximately 1.3 billion tax debt. 1.3 billion. That means if you get 10 percent more of that tax that you should collect, you already have a little bit more than 130 million here. European funds, respected colleagues, colleagues of the coalition. One fifth of you managed to draw on European funds in the period 2014-2018, 18%. Here, there are 2 billion euros on the ground that you can't pick up or you don't want to. You don't want to or you're incompetent, I'd say. You may already have a case covered here, more than covered, if you take matters seriously. Dear Members, compared to 2014, you have 1.4 billion higher tax revenues from tax revenues. 1.4 billion higher tax revenues. Lenart explained earlier how tax should be treated and that the tax also has a social function. The tax must have both a social and a development function if it is properly applied. But, see, from the balance sheet of the 2019 budget, which you confirmed, it is not clear that these 1.4 billion euros in taxes collected by the economy paid by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would go to development. You've increased your wages to certain people. 1.4 billion tax revenues are higher, but on the other hand we have a breakdown of the health system. Look how much money has been invested in health care, and the waiting lines are increasing. 60 family doctors in Gorenjska resigned. We are threatened by the fact that 40,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be left without a personal doctor. Who here bears the greatest responsibility? SMC and the current government. You couldn't use 1.4 billion, I don't know what it was used for. I have said several times in my previous mandate and in my current mandate, what the economy has created, the government of Mir Cerar has now eaten and drank. Spitzencandidate SMC Perič for European elections said: “Minimum salary to increase – great.” European Member of SDS Romana Tomc said: "Minimum wage – maximum blemish." And that's true, and she's justified it. When you increased the minimum wage when you said you were operating systemically, you did not take into account what this means. In the end, you have increased the minimum wage for people, but they have less in their pocket because they lost on the basis of this social allowance. This increased, for example, the payment of kindergartens. There's been a lot of talk under the coalition contract about what you're going to do for the pensioners. You have increased their living in nursing homes — and reduced their income. But for the minimum wage, it turned out to be the maximum blemish. But you always say, when the opposition suggests something, we won't support it because it's not systemic. Did you, when you increased the minimum wage, act systemicly? If we were to operate systemically, then those with a minimum wage, which has increased, would have more in their wallets today, at least it would be normal. But you took something else from them, and you cut them down. But don't tell me they didn't know this at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. You knew damn well! However, you were only concerned that the budget went politically through and that you remained in power. Health care in Slovenia is not free. Many times you try to present this matter to the public. Employees with an average salary and his employer for health insurance pay about EUR 2 000 500 per year. EUR 2 000 500, to say that today he will lose his personal doctor in Gorenjska, that the waiting period is, say, a two-and-a-half-year specialist review. And you're trying to speak in every way social, social. On the left hand side we listened to this argument, which applies to what, say, I don't know when the neighbor was killed by a cow, and then those owners came and saw a goldfish there. And she said, "What can I do for you?" "Yes, I'd like a cow to die for me." “Why?” "The neighbor won't come to me for milk." And that's the same story Levica's been using. Not to raise one by 20 or 25 euros, because the neighbor will get 100 euros. All the same, all the poor. I mean, this philosophy, I'm sure it's wrong, well. Let's not increase the minimum wage by 20 euros, because the neighbor will get 50 or 100 euros. No, it's better that no one has anything. Listen to what you said in the debate yourself. I think it's pretty sad. This debate today has once again shown what the priorities of this government and these coalitions are. This means additional indebtedness of the country and additional burden on the economy in particular. But I'm sure such a path is not appropriate and will not end well.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. A representative of the Government of Natalija Kovač Jereb, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. As I said at the outset, the Ministry of Finance has presented tax changes, there are tax changes at work and, on the other hand, capital taxation. The Ministry of Finance presented tax changes by presenting changes in the overall relief rate of EUR 3 000 500, then raising the general additional relief, then the proposal to raise the first class from 8 000 to 8 000 500, then the second class rises from EUR 8 000 500 to EUR 25 000, then the third class from EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000, and also the lower income rate to 32%, from 34% to 32%, and the income rate to 50% is maintained. The tax bases are also raised to between 25 and 50 000 in the third grade, in the fourth class between 50,000 and 80 000 and rises to a tax base at the fifth grade above 80 000 euros. It also proposes to maintain linearity, linearity between 11 000 166 and 13 thousand 316 euros. This is also a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. Once again, we also had to present tax changes to the Economic and Social Council. We have set up a negotiating group in this regard. We have already presented tax changes to the negotiating group and have taken into account the comments of both the employers and workers. We are studying the comments and will present our comments in the future, some we will also be able to take into account. On the other hand, we are raising the effective rate of corporate income tax to 5% of the lowest rate, and in the future we are raising the corporate income tax from 19% to 20%, in 2021 to 21% and in 2022 to 22% of the corporate income tax. We are still excluding tax on income, according to equity, our proposal is from 25% to 30% tax. On the other hand, we propose soft measures. In doing so, the tax administration proposes to the taxpayers the activities of the financial administration in the inspection of corporate income tax and individual independent entrepreneurs, as well as amendments to the taxation of natural persons. These are the proposals presented by the Ministry of Finance to the Economic and Social Council. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the representative of the proposaler, Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Our proposals for amendments to the Income Act are in circulation for about two years. It's another government that gets to know them. I must say that I am extremely sad that the professional services of neither the previous government nor this government have been able to react and prepare anything at this time. What the Secretary of State last presented is exactly what our law regulates. And if it were will, the government could easily amend it, give its solutions, and have the process completed. Now, as we hear it, this is going to take another year, because that's going to be a change for next year. What we are proposing, this change in income, this is the solution that will be received in every village that will receive in every house, in every household, will receive in Ribnica, in Kočev, in Ormož, in Gorenjska, you will not believe, even in Bohinj, in short, everyone will get. A million and a half taxpayers will or would benefit from this proposal. A million and a half. Among them are 600,000 pensioners. They are also concerned with the income law, because they are also taxpayers. Six hundred thousand! And what the pensioners would get is more than what the government has given them or the government will give them this year with both valorisations. There's more of this. For example, there you were very excited about what the Government gives to the pensioners and how it coordinates their pensions, and with this our income proposal you would get much more. In fact, the annual valorisation is lower than the monthly rating accepted by pensioners under our law. It is incomprehensible that neither the government nor the government will listen to this proposal. All I can say for the end is that the fear of such Members and politicians who have such poor knowledge and understanding of the subject and, with, I can say, even foolish reasons excuse why they will not support the people of the good proposal. I must say, I'm already extremely disappointed in my behavior. You've all read and given these interpretations of a government proposal, an explanation or their opinion, without arguing with one thing why this is actually a bad proposal. At the same time, you are applauding the proposal presented by the Minister, which concerns the exact same content and will have similar financial effects. In short, one does not understand that this is even possible in society.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can see that. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proponent Jože Tanko and the representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Four panellists have been reported, each panellist has five minutes. The word is Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you again, Vice President, for your word. Why did I answer? Because, after all the words of the coalition Members, the State Secretary will come to the end and say that they will in fact amend also the 111th Article, which speaks of general income relief, and they will also amend the 122nd Article, which speaks of the rate of income for the tax year. Now I don't know if you're so hypocritical that you really don't just support him because he's an SDS proposalr, or, with all due respect, you have no idea how the parliamentary procedure goes. Five meetings of the Economic and Social Council, with ease, and with amendments that would give a general income allowance for you instead of 4 000 euros, would be easy to deal with, instead of 4 000 euros, with EUR 3 000 500 on your proposal, and would play a little bit like your favorite or probably more domestic, even though we are talking about a serious topic, about the rates of income and income classes. Easy. But no, you will have at least nine months of coordination, in the meantime probably the SDS will file the same law again to force you to blink, to coordinate first with yourself at the Ministry, then alone within the Government, then alone within the coalition and then with no one else. Aya, at the end of the day with the superior coalition party Levico. And none of that is going to happen. Nothing will be better for the citizens. I am very afraid that in the end this income scale and rate will be even worse. Because, according to the Secretary of State, you are not only afraid that citizens have more in their wallets and that the country has less to decide instead of people. Even today you have made a good promise to the economists: make your peace with Slovenia as soon as possible. You said you were preparing a law on income from legal persons, a raise, which means as soon as possible in Austria, Slovakia, Bosnia or elsewhere. And you talked about taxation of capital gains, and about soft measures I listened to: soft measures. In short, you do not know how to take a citizen and present it as a good story, even though we are talking about very specific figures, what today's law means for someone with a net salary of €760 – 18 more per month, what it means for someone with 2 000 200 euros – 78 more euros per month to pay. Respected citizens and citizens, unfortunately you have chosen the power to take every step of the way to praise you. But it gives you how? Just like they proved in the Minimum Wage Act. We'll give you a lot of pear space for us, that is, for the power to say how good the law is, and then you go to the opposition in the parliamentary offices, and cry how the ruling authority has taken away your social rights due to the rise of the minimum wage. The same is true when someone with no idea agrees to an agreement with Levica, which is then assessed by others at least €1.4 billion, and there you boast about how you saved the country and probably at least half the world. Here is the problem when we talk about the bad 400 million that citizens – once again, I hope you have all your wallet with you – feel in your wallet if you want someone with a minimum wage, an average salary, with a double minimum wage. Dear Members of the Left, I conclude with you. You have too obvious to have an even higher salary, so I suggest that we give members of the Left as soon as possible to the minimum, so that they do not brag about how much they have done for the citizens. Finally, all those who speak for being liberals will see your behaviour regarding your liberal stance in voting on this law, whether you are just liberals in words or you are socialists in action. I am absolutely in favour of this law because it gives both the minimum wage and those who are the most educated and think whether they will know 100 euros in Slovenia or not in Slovenia because they will move away soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u122	Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In this add-on of time, I would say that I think today I have given a whole range of arguments, why the increase in the minimum wage was also a pianist matter and why this increase in the minimum wage would in fact be the maximum total cost of the employer, where the employer would pay a monthly budget for exactly 113.53 euros per employee in 2020, and also higher contributions for 70 euros, with the minimum wage actually increasing by only 40 euros for this worker. Now there's something else. When we prepared this new Law on Income, we were following your macroeconomic agenda, in which your government, in which your finance minister says we must pursue greater domestic consumption at the time of cooling and build on greater domestic consumption. My friend Tanko told you, about 1.5 million people touch this very novelty of our marriage, they get literally everyone. In the first part of today's debate, I told you what the difference is. At a time of digitisation, at a time when I remember 3 years ago, when Miro Cerar signed a large digital agenda on Bled, taking pictures in a series of headlamps, the fact that the digitalization of the majority of people will be lost in bureaucracy, in the state and public administration, services we do not need, because artificial intelligence on computers can take over these jobs and these procedures run, all bureaucratic procedures run faster, effectively and without their own mistakes. During this time of three years, since the digital agenda was signed, you can imagine the end of the previous government and this government has hired the new 11,000 800 people in these places! We didn't get thousands and thousands of new doctors, soldiers and police officers, we got pure red tape. And see, at the Ministry of Finance and above all at the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Public Administration has increased by 94%. 94%. Now I ask you, tell the people – because of our bureaucratic and socialist thinking, all of this reduction in income classes, including those colleagues who are from Styria, those people who work in Styria, we take all of this, so that we give to those of our people who are employed in the public sector, where we don't need them at all. Because at the time of this digital agenda it would take not 150, but perhaps 120 thousand people to make the public sector even more efficient and better service to citizens. At this point, we are expanding bureaucracy, hiring more people, setting fixed costs for this country, so we are increasing them, and so we are preparing ourselves for the cooling of the economic environment and for a possible smaller crisis, which is also coming with some delay in Slovenia. Do you imagine what actions are happening in Slovenia at this time? This is the collapse of the financial system within one year! We have been following, and colleague Tanko, exactly your macroeconomic policy agenda: let us raise domestic consumption and lift it up vertically and horizontally in the principle of some honesty, justice. That is also what we wrote down, so everyone gets, from a pensioner from the Slovenian Mountains to a worker from Gorenjska or someone with higher incomes from Dolenjska, Gorenjska, White Krajina or whatever. All citizens with this new Income Law receive. If we want you to say that you are a partner – I believe that the Secretary of State is not easy to answer these arguments, because I too would find it difficult to sit in your seat assuming that the Minister is not here today, I am surprised that you have so many nerves with us. But look, actually, Secretary of State, why doesn't this government have the authority to sit here with the social partners, what my colleague Lisec said, and to question, if you have them, even with regard to this general relief? As my colleague Lisec said, I think it's only a few days, and we can solve this this month, even before these Easter holidays. Where there is will, there is a way. But if you don't like it, if there's no such thing, dear fellows, then it's irrelevant that we're putting up anything. We will leave you in the coming months, do whatever you want, we will observe you, take full responsibility for the collapse that will take place in the coming years for this country. But believe me, I'll write down the name and surname of each of my colleagues and colleagues. And I am asking you now too, do not invite me to any meetings of an Eastern cohesion region, because you have not yet confirmed any of the things I have proposed that have been good in this House. So much for me and thank you very much if you vote for this amendment to the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Today or at this regular meeting of the National Assembly, we actually have only two real points. Two points that would actually improve the situation of people in this country. One is this one, the Income Act, the other is going to be the Drivers Act later. At this point, I would really be happy if the debate would lead to a constructive path, a constructive solution, but that is not the case. On the part of the Government - respected, you have spent about 8 minutes of your time at your disposal, since all the time you could spend, you have only told us that the matter is non-systematic and that you are preparing some other solutions. You could also give us these solutions in writing, it would be much easier to discuss, but you probably have no interest in talking about it. You know, when I hear the word "systemic," it freezes me. It not only freezes me, but it freezes citizens and citizens in particular. Because, you know, what happens in this country under the name systemicly is a disaster. It's a disaster and madness! One of these madnesses was to raise the minimum wage. I remember when we discussed this, a colleague of Jerca Korča, on behalf of LMŠ, the List of Marjan Šarc, told quite a few stories of poor people, indeed. People who live hard work hard. I remember she was also talking about some of the workers. But will the LMŠ be so honest today and publicly say that because of the rise of this minimum wage, this worker is in a worse position? Because she's gonna lose some of the benefits of so-called social transfers. There's state scholarships in here, there's children's allowances in here, there's kindergarten payments in here, there's the rest of the aid that the state is offering. So this worker is not going to get this €21.51, but because of the other obligations she will have, not only will she get this money, but she will lose what she used to have. And these are your system solutions. We also heard about systemic solutions when we suggested that a minimum disability pension be arranged. Yesterday I asked again about this and got the answer that there is no solution in fact. There is no solution for these people. We have heard, however, that a systemic measure needs to be prepared. You know, another systemic solution raised this so-called social support in the previous term. I'm not saying she's not justified, but on the other hand, we've made a difference between those who worked, and the disabled pensioners, and those who never worked, are even bigger. Your system solutions make even greater differences in the country and even worse situations in the system itself. Of course, as was said, the economic growth with which you boast many times should be known in the pockets of people, in their wallets. People on the road ask me: “How do I know the economic growth in my wallet? Can you tell me exactly where he knows himself in my wallet?« Of course, he doesn't know, because we have an overeating country, because we have a country that raises the minimum wage to get more tax from it, more than a person who deserves that salary. The solutions that we are proposing today are precisely in this direction that finally that little man and everyone else will get something more, something that they will really be able to afford and spend again in the country. But you're systemic against, you're operating systemically, like a machine system.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. This Income Act is the first system law you have in your agenda this year and you decide on it. There's no other way. The only one. And I am sorry that today the Minister is not here with us to share this debate. He probably knew why he avoided this debate. This is a very important law, and the government says it is a very important law, and it is likely that when his proposal is on the table, he will be sitting here, perhaps even with the Prime Minister of the Government. And that seems extremely problematic to me. The other thing that seems problematic to me is that the behavior of the coalition is extremely twofold. On the one hand, it's hard to avoid voting against just because it didn't grow into the right head. However, this proposal is not new, it has been in similar versions since 2017, and at that time every decent and capable state administration and political authority, called the government, should be able to prepare solutions that are, not like these, but better than these. There's something else I'd like to tell you, because I forgot earlier. This law has no effect on the position of PIZ and ZZZS in any way. The part that means contributions, payments to the ZPIZ and the ZZZS is intact. This law only establishes a relationship, a different relationship between the taxpayer or the taxpayer and the Treasury. But there's holes in the State Treasury, as much as you want, we've listed some. Let me just remind you, the misused money, the underutilised money, tax exemptions, tax evasion and the like is for about 450 such technological pearls as was opened in Kočev about a week ago, called Yaskawa Robotics. For 450 of these pearls, there's money lying all over the place. For 110 such pearls, it is available in Brussels, unspent, 3.5 billion and 140 such pearls are channelled through black funds in tax havens, a whole heap of corruption in health care. Overpayments in investments already made by this government are for about 40 Yaskaw only at the second track and so on. So the resources are more than enough. Since you will not support the marriage, young people will be affected, especially those who are trained or even highly educated. They have an unknown desire to go abroad. Why not, if it gets 200 euros more net in the same gross that the company gives it, 200 euros more net per month – 2 000 400 euros at the end? So basically, he gets two more wages already in one year just on the basis of income. That's what a worker gets with a thousand 500 Euros gross salary in Austria. We'd get more pensioners because they're also taxpayers. We'd get more than the valorisations you're making. Migrant workers would be able to benefit from an additional payment of income at the expense of a weaker tax policy in Slovenia. There's a permanent problem. In short, the problem is that the objective of this country is not to rationalise any tax, it is not to rationalise business, but at least to maintain taxes at the existing level. The balance has to be nothing. Austria gave up additional taxes, already reduced its income. Now there's one more thing. After the vote, after the debate and the vote, we will have substantive and political evidence that you are working against people and that you support the unhealthy practices that have been transferred from the previous to this mandate. There's corruption among them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a regulation on amendments to the driver's laws and supplements. The draft law was tabled by a group of 75 Members and Members with first-signed Boris Doblekar and Janjo Slug. With regard to this bill, the group of 75 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group this February, we tabled a proposal for a law on amendments to the Drivers Act. The basic objective is to ensure the operational readiness of voluntary firefighting companies and to allow operational firefighters the exception for the operation of smaller fire-fighting vehicles exceeding a maximum permissible mass of 3 000 500 kilograms and for the operation of which operational firefighters had to have a C1 category performed and in force. Following new developments, these vehicles will be able to drive with category B completed and in force and provided with appropriate training at the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue in accordance with the EU Commission Directive. What is the basic purpose and purpose of the amendment to the driver law that we are proposing? We will allow operational firefighters to be able to take action in the event of accidents in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia during 24 hours of operational readiness per day and every day of the year. On behalf of the firefighters and everyone else who will be brought with them the long-awaited positive, practical and useful changes and an extremely strong desire to be able to accept the proposed amendment of the law, I was extremely positive when the cooperation deadline was also offered by the coalition groups that wanted to participate in the project. On the amendment of the Drivers Act, Member Janja Slug met on behalf of the coalition parliamentary groups with me and experts, and I must admit that we had very constructive and substantive discussions. We have come up with a joint proposal that is coordinated for the start of the legislative process. In addition to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group and the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus coalition parties, signatures also contributed to the amendment of the law in Novi Slovenije. Let me return to the harmonised proposal for amendments and to the Complementation of the Drivers Act and to the essence of the amendment of the law. Nearly 800 fire brigades of voluntary fire companies in the Republic of Slovenia use smaller fire trucks, often exceeding 3 thousand 500 kilograms. To drive them, operational firefighters need a C1 driver's license. In order to provide one C1 driver for all voluntary companies, the total cost is almost a million euros, and for several more drivers a few million euros, which is, of course, a great financial burden and a hindrance both for individuals and for individual voluntary firefighting companies. These welcome changes will also apply to ambulance drivers and special ambulances for emergency medical care used in the framework of public and military health services. We also include intervention vehicles of civil protection, mountain, cave and underwater rescue services at the country level, as well as mobile units of the ecological laboratory. An important novelty will also be the removal of disturbing administrative barriers. Local competence and validity for the abolition of the post-loss or temporary withdrawal of the driver's licence shall be abolished, resulting in a welcome change that will allow drivers anywhere in the country to carry out a medical examination. Thus waiting types and other reasons will no longer be an obstacle, which means that the courts will decide more quickly on the return of the withdrawn driving licence, which is particularly important for those individuals whose validity of the driving licence is relevant to their existence. The proposed amendment of the law also proposes that a person who has a valid driving licence for category B and F for at least 6 months shall also be issued a driving licence for driving motor vehicles of categories BE where the maximum permissible mass of the trailer does not exceed 3 thousand 500 kilograms. This proposed amendment is based on the fact that the fourth paragraph of Article 60 of the current Drivers Act provides that a person who has a valid driving licence of category B, BE, C1, C1, C1E, CE, D1, D or DE for at least 6 months shall also be authorised to drive vehicles of category F, that is, tractors if he has successfully completed a safety course with the tractor and tractor connections. I look forward to the debate on the first reading of the amendment of the Drivers Act and the joint majority consensus on the law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and to follow more than once the way in which we put in place and adopt legislation, as we did with our colleague, the co-proposer, Mrs Janjo Slug, who will cooperate in the next discussion on behalf of the law's proponents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Nina Mauhler, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Good-bye! On 3 April 2019, the Group of Members and Members submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for examination and adoption a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Drivers Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has carefully examined and adopted a positive position on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Drivers in Parts, which provides that the measure prohibiting the re-entry into the register of driving schools or the employment of the professional driving chief shall cover all the serious irregularities set out in Article 20, paragraph 3, of the Drivers Act, hereinafter, where the local authority to carry out the checks for the return of the temporary driving licence, the suspension of the execution of the termination of the validity of the driving licence and the deletion of a certain number of penalty points, in parts where the validity of the medical certificate of entry into force of the medical examination carried out by the driving licence is terminated, where it is provided that the special medical commission shall issue a medical certificate of physical and mental capacity of the driving licence2. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with regard to the solutions for the provision of exceptions to the driving of smaller fire vehicles, ambulances and intervention vehicles of civil protection provided for in Articles 1, 2, 3, 5 and 10 of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Drivers Act, considers that they are not appropriate and therefore proposes a number of different solutions, which are set out in the form of amendments, below. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to include in the exceptions, in addition to smaller firefighting vehicles, ambulances and civil protection intervention vehicles, police vehicles intended to carry out police operational tasks after use, to issue certificates of competence and record-keeping on an ongoing training and qualification programme and issued certificates of competence, to be identified on a public call and by the Director of the Public Agency, here I am talking about the Agency for Transport Safety, the AVP, the authorised legal person or the independent entrepreneur of the individual. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that, in order to exercise professional control over the content, scope, expertise and quality of training for the operation of smaller firefighting vehicles, ambulances and civil protection vehicles, the above-mentioned Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and that, in order to carry out inspections of the implementation of the provisions relating to training for the operation of smaller firefighting vehicles, police, ambulances and civil protection vehicles, an inspectorate responsible for road transport be established, as the proposed legal solution is to do so by an inspectorate responsible for defence, contrary to the provisions of the Defence Act, which lays down the powers of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that this is contrary to Directive 2006/126/EC of 20 December 2006 on driving licences and therefore proposes that this solution be deleted from the proposal. Directive 2006/126/EC lays down the categories of driving licences of the minimum age for obtaining driving licences of certain categories, the equivalence of categories and the issue and extension of driving licences. Those provisions have been transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by the implementation of Directive 2006/126/EC, which does not provide for an exemption when determining the equivalence of categories and conditions for obtaining a category B driver’s licence. This therefore means that the regulation in all the Member States of the European Union is the same and does not make sense and cannot be otherwise regulated. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia underlines in particular that the proposal will have civil protection in view of the establishment of a system of training and testing for the ability to drive smaller fire vehicles, police vehicles, ambulances and intervention vehicles, with a view to establishing records and carrying out a call for proposals or a formal solution, and the possible implementation of a call for tender for the selection of the entity to carry out this training programme, the implications for the State budget and other public funding. These consequences are not defined in the bill. Therefore, since these financial consequences are not defined in the draft law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia currently finds it extremely difficult to assess whether the proposed solutions for driving smaller fire vehicles and other vehicles will be more favourable to those entities than the existing solution, this is the performance of a driving test to obtain a driving licence for driving a category C1 motor vehicle. I am also adding an estimate or information on the estimated cost of approximately EUR 900 per person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u132	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The basic purpose of supplementing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act is to allow members of voluntary firefighting companies to drive smaller intervention vehicles GV-1, GVV-1 with a category B driving test and training performed. In Slovenia, there are over 800 fire brigades of voluntary fire companies and most members do not meet the conditions for driving smaller intervention vehicles. Operational firefighters who are not beginners and have a category B driver’s licence and special training shall be permitted to drive smaller fire-fighting vehicles of category C, a total mass of between 3 thousand 500 and 5 thousand 500 kilograms for the transport of 8 persons plus 1 and a smaller fire-fighting vehicles of category B with a trailer, a maximum permissible mass of between 3 thousand 500 kilograms and 4 thousand 250 kilograms. In addition, the applicant must submit a valid medical certificate proving that he is physically and psychologically able to drive C1 vehicles and a certificate by the fire commander that the applicant is kept in the register of voluntary firefighters. Professional firefighters shall submit the employer's certificate. The same exception applies to the driving of intervention vehicles of civil protection, mountain, cave and underwater rescue services, mobile units of the ecological laboratory, rescue and special vehicles for the provision of emergency medical assistance and intervention vehicles of the Slovenian Army military health unit. Special training shall be provided by the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and resolution. Voluntary firefighters are the pillar of fire safety in our country, always ready to help: day, night, every time. 133 thousand Slovenians are members of voluntary fire companies. The companies are relatively well equipped, they have modern fire clothes, they have renovated firehouses and intervention vehicles. However, the problem is that there are not many members of societies who have passed a category C driving licence. Therefore, we often witness the situation when there is a fire or other intervention and the vehicles cannot export because there is simply no driver. So the firemen gathered are waiting, the fire is spreading, the floods are destroying and endangering people and property because of unnecessary and excessive bureaucratic demands. We can't let that happen. In New Slovenia we will support changes in the law, as we support all proposals for laws that improve the status of voluntary firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u134	Dear President, distinguished Members, honourable Members! Today, we will consider a law focusing on three main points: the establishment of exceptions to the driving of firefighters and certain other vehicles, the establishment of specific conditions for the issue of driving licences and the elimination of local restrictions on the determination of the operator of the health check. Let's start by setting out the exceptions to driving fire vehicles. With the bill we are addressing a problem that voluntary firefighters throughout Slovenia have been pointing out for a very long time. Ensuring optimum operational readiness is at least what voluntary firefighting companies need to be provided and is the basis for everything else. This was also realized by the European Union, which in the directive granted all civil protection vehicles an exception in obtaining driving licences. In the SAB, we are convinced that there is no doubt that the introduction of an exception is perceived as positive or negative, but this does not mean that we can approach it recklessly. The fact is that there are specific driving interventions and that they require more prudence, sobriety, focus and responsibility than a normal driver. It is a fact that, if we adopt such an exception, we will have to develop a system that will not only make it easier for the members of the firefighting companies to obtain a suitable permit, but will also ensure that the drivers are properly educated, trained and prepared, as we advocate in the SAB. The approach, introduced in some way for intervention driving, should therefore require the same standards and produce the same results as the regular driving licence procedure. Inadequate driver and intervention driving on which lives depend are an unacceptable combination. Safety-driving instructors have long warned that a lack of additional education can be observed in drivers of intervention vehicles. The novelty also proposes that the owner of the category F driving licence should also be granted a driving licence of category BE after at least six months. It's the other way around right now. It is important that any amendments take into account the earlier European Directive. We can also read in the bill that the Ministry of Infrastructure has already received an official reminder from the European Commission due to the incomplete transposition of certain provisions in the past. We need to know that by enacting the proposed amendment again it would be an inappropriate measure. Indeed, the European Directive allows Member States, in certain respects, to decide on certain issues on their own, but the rules in this regard are precisely and clearly defined. When determining the equivalences of categories and conditions for obtaining driving licences and BE categories, this is not an area where members would have free hands. I wonder if in Slovenia we would receive the same aid as we received in the time of the acorn. This item will therefore be subject to further coordination. If I take a quick look at the last point, this is to remove the local limits for determining the operator of the health check. There's a crystal clear thing. The waiting periods for authorised operators are too long. It is not right for courts to decide on the return of temporary driving licences with delay because they do not have a medical certificate. And it is not right that procedures for some individuals take much longer because they live from this point of view in a more burdensome region. Conditions must be the same for all and we can take a big step in this direction by eliminating local jurisdiction. We will also unanimously support the bill in the SAB Group because it strengthens the values of solidarity, which our experienced firefighters strongly characterise. However, we are aware that the proposal for a law will need to be further examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The positions of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Let me begin by expressing my joy at the fact that the coalition and part of the opposition with the proposal of the amendment to the Drivers Act have proved that despite various political views, we can find a common language to deal with problems affecting the wider community. Moreover, the Ministry of Infrastructure has also been involved in the drafting of the law, and the law is also in line with the Fire Association of Slovenia, individual fire companies and the Protection and Rescue Authority. We are even more pleased that we have taken another step together to increase the operational readiness of voluntary firefighting companies and to allow operational firefighters the exception of driving smaller fire extinguishers with the applicable category B examination. Thus, voluntary firefighters will be able to drive over a mass of 3.5 tonnes and, of course, will have to receive appropriate training at the Protection and Rescue Authority. In addition, drivers of ambulances, special emergency medical vehicles exceeding 3.5 tonnes and intervention vehicles of civil protection, mountain, cave and underwater rescue services are included in this solution. With the proposed solution, we have enabled voluntary firefighters to save nearly a million euros together, which is the total cost of providing at least one C1 driver in each of the approximately 800 firefighter companies. However, it should be pointed out that the certificate of training carried out will by no means compensate for the examination of category C1 and will not replace this examination and will only apply in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it will allow firefighters to be able to take action in case of accidents during the 24-hour operational readiness period and every day of the year, which is in fact the essence of the solutions proposed. The bill itself also removes some other administrative obstacles. For example, the local authority to carry out a post-loss medical examination or temporary withdrawal of a driver’s licence shall be abolished. This means that drivers will be able to perform a medical examination anywhere. The next novelty is that the period of validity of the health certificate will be eliminated, since the content of this certificate, rather than the duration, is important. Finally, I would like to express my surprise that co-signature has not been decided by the so-called contractual opposition, which always has a mouthful of concern for the welfare of the people of our country. Obviously, volunteer firefighters are not a sufficiently important group to which it would be worth taking, or the simple content of the law is not populism enough for them. However, the Members of our parliamentary group have co-signed the proposal for a new law and we will also unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not vote on the bill, because the Cerara government cooked and dissolved the Parliament at the time, and we had no opportunity on the Committee to make any comments, which is why we will not vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u140	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We've got a new Drivers Act coming up. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group this February, we tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act. The basic objective is to ensure the operational readiness of voluntary firefighting companies and to allow operational firefighters the exception of driving smaller fire-fighting vehicles weighing more than 3 000 500 kilograms and for driving for which the operational firefighters had to have the C1 category in force so far. Following new developments, these vehicles will be able to drive with the applicable category B and provided with appropriate training at the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue in accordance with the Directive of the European Union. What is the basic purpose of the new law? We will allow operational carriers to act in the event of accidents in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia during 24 hours of operational preparedness per day and every day of the year. Nearly 800 fire brigades of voluntary fire companies in the Republic of Slovenia use smaller fire trucks, often exceeding 3 thousand 500 kilograms. To drive them, operational firefighters need a C1 driver's license. The provision of one C1 driver across all voluntary firefighting companies is a very high cost. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law is appropriate, appropriately addressed and solves a number of problems faced by both voluntary firefighting companies and vehicle drivers with an advantage. We will therefore support the conclusion that the proposal for amendments to the Drivers Act is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jerco Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act, according to the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, addresses a completely real problem and in a way of life creates easier work for voluntary firefighting companies and also provides for certain other innovations in the implementation of emergency medical care, civil protection, mountain and cavern and underwater rescue services. Most members of voluntary firefighting companies have passed their B examination. It is expected that within each company there would be a sufficient number of members with a category C1 examination, a completely inhuman regime. We are aware of the importance of increasing traffic safety in the Marjana Sarca Group, which includes the appropriate skills of drivers, which is also obtained through appropriate education and the procedure for obtaining a driving licence for a particular category. Nevertheless, it seems reasonable for us to make provision for certain exceptions when there are legitimate reasons for doing so. The current legislation in the field of transport and transport safety does not provide for exceptions allowing a category B examination to operate motor vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of not more than 3 tonnes and not more than 8 seats in addition to the driver's seat. This category also includes smaller commercial vehicles which, for reasons of technical and other equipment, exceed the permissible mass, which means that they are moved to a class subject to the regulation that the driving licence of category C1 is required. The novelty ahead of us today will allow voluntary firefighters who have obtained a B driving test and will also be able to operate smaller fire-fighting vehicles. The arrangements provided for in this proposal will also contribute to the higher operational readiness of fire brigades to intervene in the event of accidents, fires and other events. Indeed, many times in the practice of society are faced with a lack of drivers who have an examination of the relevant category. However, the training of the members of the examination society may constitute a high financial contribution either for an individual or perhaps even for a society that is more difficult to cover. Comparable arrangements are already known in Austria and Germany, where exceptions for driving smaller fire-fighting vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of up to 5 tonnes and a half are already regulated by law. The first and most important thing in every intervention is the protection of the firefighters themselves. Each society is aware that its own safety is the first prerequisite for helping others at risk. This proposal also provides for a way to ensure adequate theoretical and practical competence and to obtain a certificate on the basis of which a member of a voluntary firefighting company can actually drive vehicles which will be defined as an exception in this law. I believe that much will be said today in all the views and debates on the substantive part of the proposal ahead of us. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that the content follows the right proposals and regulates the area in order to include elements that will help improve the working conditions of voluntary firefighting companies and other organisations affected by this proposal. I also believe that possible open issues will still be coordinated during the debate. In addition to the substantive solutions themselves, I would like in particular to highlight one key issue that has emerged through this bill. The latter seems really important and commendable to me. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, in the Marjana Sarca Group, we are pleased to agree on the proposal by the first-signed member of SMC Janja Slug and SDS Member Boris Doblekar and that all SDS, LMŠ, SD, SMC, New Slovenia, SAB and Desus have been signed under law. We have repeatedly stressed that firefighters must not be the subject of political overtures in the letter of Marjan Šarc. Firefighters are simply ours, of all of us. Various people, different views and also different political affiliations are united inside the fire brigades. It is right that all problems and the status of firefighters are regulated together and we are exceeding political divisions and political fields. We hope and believe that this way will become an established practice when talking about firefighters and other such organisations. We will support the law in the letter of Marjan Šarc's emissary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you, Chairman. Dear secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act, which we have signed by almost all the parliamentary groups of the current Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We have already had such or different forms of the driver law in the past in the parliamentary procedure and we have had a rather extensive discussion, but we have not reached a common and common conclusion. We believe that the epilogue will be different in this proposal of the driver law that we are considering today. Slovenia has a rich firefighting tradition. According to the latest data, there are 800 volunteer fire brigades who tirelessly spend 24 hours a day caring for the safety of all of us. All these voluntary companies also need members with a C1 driver’s license for their smooth operation, but we do know that these types of personnel are seriously lacking. In order to strengthen voluntary fire companies with personnel with a C1 driving licence and to enable their members and members to carry out this examination, this would constitute a huge cost for companies themselves or individuals who are members of these companies. Since we want to continue to provide these voluntary firefighters with the conditions under which they will carry out their work smoothly and thus take care of our common security, the proposed law provides, inter alia, that it is appropriate to introduce appropriate exceptions for the operation of smaller fire extinguishers, which we welcome in our group. In addition to smaller fire extinguishers, the bill proposes the classification of other vehicles with priority, such as rescue and special vehicles for emergency medical care, which are used within the framework of public health and military health services and intervention vehicles of civil protection, mountain, cave and underwater rescue services and mobile units of the ecological laboratory. Once candidates have successfully completed the theoretical and practical training to be carried out by the Slovenian Armed Forces, in cooperation with the fire school, the competent minister will then determine that C1 vehicles can be driven by qualified candidates with category B driver's license. However, I have a little question here that the institution, which has been given a negative assessment for many years, will train members of one of the most organised and professional firefighters, but there is probably a reason. In our view, these solutions will help to improve security in our country and, above all, fire companies will be able to continue to carry out their work smoothly and qualitatively. The draft law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act will be unanimously supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u146	The website of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia states: “Fire units with membership and firefighting techniques represent the most powerful force for action in the event of natural and other accidents.” It would be hard to say that we disagree with what was written. True, firefighters are an invaluable part of society by their self - sacrifice and willingness, which is always at stake and everyone comes to the rescue. Not only in weather conditions, but also in traffic accidents, road closures, animal rescue and other situations where firefighters are the first to jump in and depend on them. I would therefore like to express my satisfaction that today we will have a general debate on a proposal for a law that follows the solutions of the SMC's parliamentary novel from the previous mandate. The basic objective of the bill is to allow voluntary firefighting units to be operationally prepared every day for 24 hours per week. To this end, we propose to prescribe a category B driving licence and additional special training for operational firefighters for smaller fire-fighting vehicles. In Slovenia there are about 800 firefighter units of voluntary firefighting companies using smaller fire trucks, which often exceed 3 000 kilograms because of equipment. A category C1 driving licence is then provided for. There are over 150 000 volunteer firefighters in Slovenia. Three times less, and about 50,000 of them are operative firefighters. Most volunteer firefighters do not have a category C driver's license, so in the case of intervention vehicles, the operational readiness of the fire brigades is questionable. Given that a voluntary firefighter company uses at least two drivers in a unit, we can imagine the financial burden of obtaining category C driving licences for voluntary firefighting companies. Since the proposal follows the principle of equality, an exception is also envisaged for professional firefighters. The proposal also includes rescue and special vehicles for the implementation of emergency medical care up to 5,000 kilograms and intervention vehicles for civil protection, mountain, cave and underwater rescue services at the level of the State and mobile unit of the ecological laboratory. In doing so, I would like to point out that the novelty does not allow for the general authorisation of category C or C1. For these vehicles will only be possible with the applicable category B driver’s licence on the basis of the valid certificate of competence for driving these vehicles. The certificate will not be applicable to other vehicles of this category. The fact that we have put the draft law into the legislative procedure of the coalition's parliamentary groups, together with the SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups, proves that the envisaged solutions are not the subject of political fighting and accounting, but are of wider social interest to provide assistance to firefighters. The bill also enjoys broad support from the fire companies, the Fire Union of Slovenia and the Protection and Rescue Authority. We will, of course, support the proposal in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u148	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! The amendment to the Drivers Act, which we are considering today, will allow voluntary firefighting units to provide greater operational readiness for a larger number of drivers with a special driver's license to drive smaller fire vehicles. The draft law allows that, when certain conditions are met and appropriate training is carried out on the basis of a category B permit already obtained, the person with this vehicle authorisation may also be an intervention vehicle up to a maximum permissible mass of 5 thousand kilograms. This eliminates the problem faced by firefighters in the obligation to provide drivers for smaller fire-fighting vehicles and smaller fire-fighting vehicles with water. These are vehicles which fall into the B category often empty, but when filled with water and fire crews, they exceed this threshold of a maximum permissible mass of 3 000 500 kilograms, to which vehicles still belong in category B, and pass into category C. Their drivers thus need a driving licence under the law for category C or, at home, for the purpose of driving the truck. Apart from the professional drivers of trucks, there are relatively few persons among firefighters with this driver's license, so voluntary fire companies often have problems providing one driver for such a vehicle, not just to maintain 24-hour operating readiness. The law that we are considering today will allow drivers with a category B driving test, which is not initial drivers, to drive such fire vehicles, provided they have previously trained to drive these vehicles, which will be carried out by the Slovenian Armed Forces on the basis of a regulation to be drawn up by the Ministry of Defence. In addition to firefighters, such arrangements will also apply to vehicles carrying out intervention vehicles of civil protection, mountain, cave and underwater rescue services at the level of the State and mobile units of the ecological laboratory used to carry out the essential tasks necessary for the resolution of life and property or to prevent the occurrence of major material damage. This is a solution that is consistent with European legislation and is already in force in Austria, Germany. We support such arrangements in the left hand side. In addition to driving permits for fire-fighting vehicles and other ambulances, the law also amends the provisions relating to carrying out a health check for drivers. Persons are subject to a medical check if they have been given at least two legal sentences in the last two years for an offence or a crime of causing a traffic accident or if they have been suspected of having a condition, disability or disability which may pose a risk to road traffic. The proposal for a law establishes the obligation to carry out a review in the area where they are resident or temporary residence of those of the aforementioned persons who are required to carry out the check, because they have been given an expiry of their driving licence and those who have been driving under the influence of alcohol. So it's serious traffic offenders. The law removes the obligation to carry out a check-in in an area where the person has a permanent or temporary residence due to the alleged long waiting lines in certain authorised operators. Some people are almost existentially dependent on driving because they drive to work every day, take care of their children, transport to school, a kindergarten with which they eventually provide their families with survival. We understand the intention of the applicant that these persons should be allowed to have a health check and a temporary return of the driving licence as soon as possible if they meet all the health and legal conditions prescribed. Nevertheless, we would like such changes to be better justified and reasoned. Finally, this is about changes that will allow serious traffic offenders, drivers of traffic accidents and those who drive under the influence of alcohol to return to the roads sooner. Therefore, we want more detailed reasons for the need for these changes. In particular: how long are waiting types, what are the differences in waiting lines, how many cases have there been when persons were unable to arrive at this checkup in due course and so on? The law's proposal for a full amendment of this system builds on arguments of long waiting types and areas where it does not go beyond general claims. In Levi, we will support the draft law at first reading, and in the second reading, we expect further clarifications from the applicants regarding the necessity of decisions relating to checks and ensure that these changes do not lead to reduced traffic safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Given that there are many reviews, I would only read the first four debaters, first of all Zvonko Černač, then Vojko Starović, Franci Kepa and Matjaž Han. First, he asked for the floor, proposeder Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Members and Members! I must say that I am pleased with the initial responses and am glad that this novel of law enjoys so much support in the National Assembly or almost by all the groups of Members. Just before I started, before or immediately after my presentation, I also received a written opinion from the Government on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act, so that I will not currently define myself to the position of the Government. Although I listened attentively to the secretary of state, she was in such a hurry because of the weather that I could not write down all the details, and I have no objection to her. As I have said, we have just received these views from the Government in writing and will then be identified on the home committee itself, according to the Infrastructure Committee, where we will also examine all of their proposals or amendments to individual articles and then decide, after examination, whether or not we will support these amendments or make any proposals. In short, there will have to be a very detailed review, because I believe that in such a marriage or in such changes, which we have given and are not so few, there is much more to find and that we will have to examine everything very carefully. Perhaps only so that, since the presentation of the positions of the Government of the State Secretary, I may have heard a little bit more from the Transport Safety Agency, which I have heard several times and may be here with the Agency for Transport Safety, which I respect, and also for all years as a member of the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council in the municipality of Lithuania, I am very actively involved with the Agency, but I will also have my opinion on the Agency and we will also have these initiatives, proposals from the Government very carefully examined and identified by the Government. I will not steal the time, I will leave the word to the debaters, who will probably go in the direction of the represented positions of individual groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The text is given by Janja Služ, the proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I am also pleased with these views of the groups of Members. But I'd like to warn you about something. When we prepared this joint proposal, we basically took the one from the previous mandate, but we have substantially upgraded it. In doing so, we have taken into account all the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service that it had on that proposal at the time, and we have taken into account to a large extent the comments of the Government, colleague Doblekar. In fact, I am a little surprised by this opinion of the Government, and then I may comment very quickly on it in the end, and in the process that follows, we will all agree under this proposal of law and, in all likelihood, as a colleague has said, either join these proposed amendments or write our own. As has already been said many times today, the Fire Federation of Slovenia has, of course, supported this proposal, even seeking these solutions in essence since 2010. The Firefighters Association itself warned that this solution would practically mean the greatest burden for those smaller voluntary firefighters who are the biggest owners of such vehicles. We're talking GV1 and GVV1 vehicles. Of course, firefighters know exactly which vehicles they are. Let me say that today it is a fine for a person to go on such a journey without a proper examination, at the moment without examination for the C category, 300 euros for a firefighter and as much as 5,000 euros for a voluntary firefighter society. Then imagine the burden that this poses for a voluntary fire company. It is true that individual voluntary firefighting companies already have members with category C examinations, but according to firefighters these are the most frequently used persons because they actually need them to carry out their profession. So many times when an intervention occurs when an intervention is called for, those who have these exams are not, they are absent because they are at work. And then there comes this mystery that there's no man to get in the car behind the wheel and drive that vehicle away. It also happens that since there is no such person, it is necessary to call a voluntary fire company that is closest to it, which means that intervention time is prolonged or risking, as we say, and risking that fine. As regards operational readiness and the savings that this proposal would bring to voluntary firefighting companies, I have another aspect to point out. It is not just finance, but what we have already said today is that this situation at the level of Slovenia is said to be two people per individual voluntary firefighter society, and we are quickly at a million or two, but it also means saving the time of the firefighter himself. You know that firefighters and their entire family devote a lot of their free time to these activities in voluntary firefighting companies, including their family members. Asking them to invest so much time, finance and energy to get the stuff they need just to carry out a voluntary fire operation, I really think it might be a little too much. As mentioned, there are two countries that already have such a solution so that we do not detect some warm water. Germany has already enacted such a solution in 2009 and can drive such vehicles from category B to 7 tonnes, requiring special training for vehicles up to 4,75 tonnes and a practical test for vehicles 7 tonnes and a practical test for vehicles. Austria did the same thing up to 5 and a half tonnes in 2010. However, since such a permit applies only in the area of the country where it is restricted and carried out training, Austria and Germany signed a mutual agreement in 2013 that the Austrians in the territory of Germany and then also apply vice versa, are perfectly lawful to drive with these trainings or with B exams. As has already been said today, the solution is to make it possible to do the same for emergency medical care, mountain, caveats, underwater, rescue and professional firefighters. The very way, the conditions for issuing such a special permit, the content of training, and so on, is provided for by the competent minister, i.e. the Minister of Defence, and the programme itself will be carried out by the Directorate of Protection and Rescue. Since 1992, there has been an education centre with three departments: a training department, a support department, training and, of course, a fire school. This centre has a seat on Iga and has three other units, so that such training is possible within this centre. However, we have also provided in the law for cases where the infrastructure required for such training does not exist, and we have therefore included in the text the possibility that the educational centre, on the basis of a call for tender, selects another relevant contractor and authorizes it to do so. As was said in the case of costs. Such training for voluntary firefighters will certainly not be completely free of charge, but it is up to them, on its own, from its ingenuity, from the optimum arrangements of this training, the way in which training and implementation will depend on what the actual cost will be. However, it is essential that training is carried out to ensure the safety of fire extinguishers themselves. The certificate envisaged will be obtained within a period of five years. The extension will require a medical certificate and will confirm that an operational firefighter or employer has confirmed that he is a professional firefighter or that he is a rescuer or that he is employed in the military or a civil protection card. Once again, the category B examination together with this certificate, which they will have to have, does not replace the category C examination, applies only to the driving of these vehicles, and only to the tasks which fall within this framework and not outside the Republic of Slovenia. And there's something else I'd like to point out. In the regulation itself, we did not come up with something in mind, but we did follow an existing regime that already exists within the Slovenian Army. There is also a Slovenian Army driving school, there is such a certificate, there is a form for this certificate and it is obtained in the same way and is then extended in the same way. In fact, we have solved one problem in the law, which has also been pointed out to us by rescue vehicles in the field, namely, this inconsistencies, which exists in article 102 of the Road Traffic Rules Act, which requires paramedics who drive rescue vehicles to impose on them more than once more equipment in order to exceed 3 tonnes and a half, to carry out the C category examination, but after having passed the C category again two years old, regardless of the fact that two or five years or ten years before. In this way, we also delete this section of Article 102 with this proposal and thus resolve this problem. Perhaps I would also respond to what my colleague in Levice said, where he says that removing the local authority of traffic offenders will allow a faster return to the roads. Of course it doesn't. I would like to point out that all the provisions in this bill relating to medical examinations came into this proposal on a proposal from the Ministry or the competent directorate at the Ministry of Infrastructure on the grounds that they have detected this problem on the ground and that the courts have in the process of returning the driver's licences withdrawn or of deciding on the postponement of enforcement in essence have itself warned that there is a delay in the decision-making process because people fail to carry out the medical examination in a timely manner. There are ten performers for these medical examinations in the territory of Slovenia. Every year, each of them does eight to nine thousand medical examinations. In addition to providing other services, the number of these operators does not increase. Sometimes, especially Eastern Slovenia, the waiting time for these medical examinations is now two to three months, while the courts that decide on these procedures have prescribed procedures, prescribed deadlines, and several times these deadlines are delayed due to these waiting periods. Or, as has now been pointed out by the Ministry, these medical certificates have had a certain period of validity and this period of validity has expired, which meant that for an individual candidate everything had to be done again from the beginning and that period is now deleted in these certificates. However, the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court have pointed out that this medical certificate must also be supplemented by a reasoned opinion, and this is what we have now covered in this proposal. But I may be finished now, and then I will come forward and comment on the government's opinion in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Now he gets the word, Member Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present. I must say that this amendment is important not only because it makes life and work easier for firefighters, rescuers and many others, but also because it receives the support of all the parliamentary groups, except one, if I understand it correctly, because I appreciate that there is a path of excessive standardisation in this area in our country. Not only in this, but in many other areas. What worries me about this debate is the position of the Government, which has been presented today and which we have also received in writing on the table today. In view of what is written, it somehow feels like some deviation from the fact that we want to deregulation, simplify, if you want to, even cheapen the end. For any excessive regulation that is not necessary also entails additional unnecessary costs. In this opinion that we have received today, there is no talk of what we are proposing being upgraded, but of how, in some way, what we are proposing will be reduced as much as possible. In order to do something, but still maintain some excessive regulation where it is not necessary. In particular, we have been warned in this opinion by the Government about the additional costs to be incurred, about €900 per individual and so on. That's what I'm worried about. This is the wrong approach. I think the government should be the one to upgrade what was a parliamentary initiative, especially since it was almost unanimous in this national assembly. So it would be another step ahead of us and say, "It is, you're right." Many times in this country, we are overly referring to the directives of the European Parliament, but at the same time we do not say that this directive does not require us to do what we prescribe in the national legal order. It has also been mentioned today that we cannot adopt Article 6 because this Directive does not allow us to do so because it prohibits us from doing so. That's not true. That's not true. Nor has it been said that the directive does not require us to take a number of hours of practical training, which is a prerequisite for someone to approach the practical part of the driving licence. The directive only speaks of seven hours. Do we only have seven? We don't only have seven anywhere. Nowhere. For no category. Not for those minor ones that are additionally implemented. I think it's at least nine hours for these. Every hour I think it's about 25 or more euros. This path, which has been traversed here with this novel, I think it would be right to complete it in this direction in the second reading. In addition to the main purpose of this law, there is also a way to make it easier for firefighters and others to show a course of relief. It is unacceptable that people are burdened with unnecessary costs. Look, we're not all the same, we're not all the same. As a result of this directive, it speaks of seven hours of minimum. All that is more depends on the needs of the individual. And why would someone who in seven hours is more than qualified to join the exam work 20 or 25 hours? There's no need for that. The effect is only for those who end up providing this service. As a result, the cost of carrying out a driving licence for a passenger vehicle has increased in recent years, as far as category B is concerned. Autocultures record enormous profits, and we pay all of these from our pockets, mainly young people who are mainly students or students, and the exam costs are thousands or more. For example, if someone in this country wants to be tested for a yacht 24 meters long today, how many hours do you think a practical exam should take? Not one. Which is not enough regulation at my discretion. But that's the rules we have right now. So, on the one hand, excessive regulation, excessive burden. Someone who probably doesn't have a problem giving him a thousand or two thousand euros for the exam if he can have a 24 meters long yacht, but he pays, here I did a little online digging and I found a price of 179,90 euros for a boat if he's over 18 years old 24 meters, if he's over 16 years old 12 meters old. Along with all the other costs, but I don't think it's more than 300 euros. These are the relationships that speak — about what? The fact that state bureaucracy, in this case the Government, is not friendly to people and refers to European bureaucracy and regulation, which it does not. So I think it is very important that this novel simply insists on the second reading and that we prevent the amendments proposed by the Government in order to eliminate this novel to the extent that it does not have any effect in the end, but would do something, on the one hand, to fire companies or to increase the cost of the country and in some way increase red tape. I don't think that would be right. That is why I propose – I believe that this law will be supported today – that we actually do everything in the second reading to make this amendment, or in the form that it has been proposed, and as we now have it on the table, or that it may be complemented by some addition, so that it will also follow this objective of deregulation, demobilization and cost reduction for all other users. I would like to mention another category that has emerged in recent years. The technology, the means of transport and everything else, the vehicles are just perfecting, and one large category of drivers in this country have also become janitors. In most cases these vehicles were approved up to 3 000 500. In recent years, due to technology and all of this, these vehicles have begun to exceed these standards and most of these vehicles are moving between 4 and 4 thousand 500 kilograms, which means that the category B of such a vehicle is no longer possible to drive. However, it is exactly the same vehicle, and no additional knowledge is needed to manage it. I think that one thought is also needed in this regard and it should be possible for these people to obtain an appropriate certificate without unnecessary costs to operate such a vehicle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Since there have been some changes, I will predict the following. First he'll get the word of Franci Kepa, then Janja the Servant, and then Matjaž Han. Mr. Kepa, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. I say hello to everyone! Initially, this proposal was the Slovenian Democratic Party. The aim is to ensure the preparedness of firefighters and to enable them to be as operational and available as possible to citizens and citizens. The bill allows for the operation of smaller fire-fighting vehicles exceeding 3,000 500 kilograms. This is supposed to be an exception to category C1. A lot of them don't have this category in new ones, but it's as personal as it is for fire companies. Firefighters will be able to drive and operate these vehicles with category B and additional management of appropriate training at the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue or any other training. Later, by aligning with coalition parties and complementing them, it was added to the drivers of ambulances and special vehicles used in public health, military and health services, which also exceed 3000 500 kilograms of weight. Intervention vehicles for civil protection, mountain, cave and other rescue services are also added. I am pleased that this is the first proposal in this composition, which has been tabled jointly, except for one party, as has been said, and I think it would be good for us to agree on the matter several times and to drink the matter together with the joint proposals. In the second reading, things will be added and drank out for a better marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word has been sent by Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to go after the government. I'd like to say something further. You know, in last year's proposal, when our former fellow Member Ivan Prelog was first signed, there was also a proposal to abolish the local authority to carry out medical examinations, and the government was determined then against – to refresh the memory a little. At that time, the Government's opinion was entirely against the abolition of the local authority for medical examinations, and now after one year the Government was actually the one that suggested this to me and my colleague Doblekar. So we just remember, and now in this light, we're looking at what the government wrote here. First of all, the Government's proposal to include police vehicles among the exceptions to smaller fire trucks and rescue vehicles. I don't have a problem with that. Even more, at the time of coordination, we have even proposed this to the Ministry of the Interior, but there was no timely response by the Ministry of the Interior, which is why we were not able to include this in the text alone. So in this part, I suppose we will follow the Government's view and also include the police vehicles in the proposal. With regard to the remark that certificates are issued for the training programme, the examination of qualifications, the maintenance of records and all of this control shall be determined on a public invitation to tender chosen by the Director of the Public Agency, an authorised legal person. This is precisely the purpose of the law now, in order to eliminate bureaucracy, to help firefighters obtain that this training programme, as prescribed by the Minister – because they will not be determined by themselves to understand each other – can be done in such a way that it is actually written on the skin of firefighters. Since the hand on the heart, carrying out the C examination at the usual school is not the same as driving a small fire-fighting vehicle with an upgrade, where there is also water for extinguishing – it is not the same, no one will convince me to do so. Nor did anyone convince me that the knowledge of some ordinary instructor who teaches at the C examination school is such that some direct experience, some direct knowledge that they need specifically to drive these vehicles with this equipment and with water to extinguish them, is such that they can pass this knowledge on to him. You'll find that very hard to convince me. Therefore, this training must be done in such a way that firefighters learn exactly what they need and do not drive a truck or a tow truck with a C examination, because this is not the same as driving a small fire truck on an intervention ride with a full tank of water. When we talk about this training, we are already Members - I suppose you too - have started to receive some letters, some electronic messages from different schools, which have now seen that these 2 million we talked about before will not run into their cash registers and now we need to do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen. With all due respect for the schools, as I have said, I believe that this training should be done in such a way that, according to the skills and knowledge they will acquire, it is precisely what they need to drive small fire trucks with equipment or with water or with a team, not least, which is certainly not the same as if you are doing a category C examination. I can imagine that, for example, an education centre for protection and rescue does not currently have any infrastructure that would be necessary to carry out such training, so, as I have said before, we have included in the law the possibility of selecting an external contractor. Certainly, however, even those who have access to, I don't know, ranges do not have vehicles in their rolling stock that would fit exactly those vehicles GV-1 or GVV-1. Therefore, insisting on this does not make sense to me, and in this part, unless we agree otherwise, in this part of this comment from the opinion of the Government, if you do not convince me with some additional arguments, I find it very difficult to follow. However, in order to allow now that we want to introduce some easier solutions for firefighters, some cost reduction, we agree that the security agency will choose an operator, in which the firefighters will have to pay everything in a set, it is from the use of infrastructure, to the use of equipment, to some instructors – then we have done nothing and then it is better to leave category C. It was not intended to do so. The following comment from the Government’s opinion is then that another authority, as foreseen in the proposal, should be designated for the implementation of professional supervision, as well as for the exercise of inspection. I'm very surprised here. Why? Because we have long been in coordination with the ministry or with the competent directorate, whose tendency was to get rid of this work, literally. It is said to be transferred to the Ministry which is responsible for this part, and this is the Ministry of Defence. Nor does it seem to me that we are actually following in the very order of an existing system, which already has an army, and on the other hand, we leave control elsewhere and introduce some dualism. I don't think it makes sense, as I said, but, okay, if the government wants it, it really does matter to me who will control it, only that this surveillance is appropriate, that it is professional, that they make sure everything works as it has to, that the program is appropriate, that even at the end of the day the firefighters are safe on these rides. So, in principle, I have no problem with this in person, but it is a little confused by what has happened until the time of the law's introduction with the various harmonisations of the text and so on. I am also surprised to note that the financial impact cannot be anticipated, but the Government has calculated that this will cost about EUR 900 per person. I didn't quite understand who this would cost 900 euros per person. Those firefighters who are now taking C examinations pay very differently – one has to pay for it alone, one is paid by the municipality, one is paid by the fire company, but that's the money that would have been eventually if it hadn't gone for this purpose for some equipment, for some operational tasks, and it would have been right to use it for these things, as it was meant to. [[…]] Once again, the training programme itself, the content, the method of implementation is a proposal for a sub-legislative act to be drawn up by the competent ministry. As I said before, costs cannot be determined right now, because everything will depend on how, by what programme, by what content and how this will be implemented together. The costs may be minimal, but if we follow what is now written here in this opinion by the Government, they can be the same as they are now. But then we didn't actually do anything. And there's something else I'd like to point out. You know, I do my best for volunteer firefighters all the time. I believe they all did. And it really pisses me off when, at certain times, I see that, while some people are always referring to how nice volunteer firefighters are, how volunteer firefighters are the category that people trust most. However, when certain firefighter solutions are taken in the National Assembly or in the Government to help them overcome certain obstacles, there are certain groups of people who no longer think of firefighters at that time but think only of themselves. Now, I'm talking about this pressure school, so there's no mistake, and I'm talking about doctors. Last year, the Ministry of Health also revised the regulation, facilitated and appreciated voluntary firefighters to obtain medical examinations in a different way, significantly faster and significantly cheaper, and, contrary to this Regulation, the medical profession and working today, did not follow the rules and work its way, as if only the blue sky were over them. And here, too, when we get these e-mails to the school, yes, I can agree, it is necessary to ensure that the content is such that firefighters learn enough to know how to drive these vehicles as they need to take care of their own safety and also of the safety of those who will be transported in these vehicles absolutely. But it seems unacceptable to me that we want to keep some things alive in every way so that someone can put up their own pot. Just like it does in medical examinations. And it's really not fair. It's really not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han, followed by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u160	Vice President, thank you very much. Well, let me congratulate you on today, and I wish you well. I've forgotten about you before, actually, but okay. Before me was Janja the Servant, a great fighter for firefighting. I hope she gets some recognition and a medal this year. There's a big fireman behind me, so I probably won't say anything smart. But we have been working with this law for some time now, in the previous term, the Preposition has passed this law the last day before the elections. In a way, we couldn't have avoided the pre-election noodles at the time. Now I must say that I, too, am pleased that there has been one agreement that Mr Doblekar has tabled this law, that Janja has actually advocated it in the previous term, and that they have joined together, and today both of them are essentially convincing how cool this law is, we have also signed it by the Social Democrats, and I think that the law will have its purpose in simplifying certain matters in voluntary firefighting societies. The only thing I've noticed is there's no great company between you. I saw a proposaler there, and she took over 70%, but let's say she's a lady, and she has more experience in this area. I agree with Mr Blackac, who said that if we are already adopting this law, let us try to be less bureaucratic or not to play with this great regulation. I'm sorry, he was the Minister of Infrastructure, he could have done that at the time, maybe it was too short a time. I couldn't agree more. But that we will not now adopt a law that will in fact tighten matters further and will further red tape among voluntary firefighters who have daily difficulties in raising money, in negotiating with local communities, in purchasing new things, and in particular with the fire liaison that we all like to refer to together so much. I, too, am a member of the Firefighters' Society, and if the Firefighters' Association were to regulate itself, and if some of its red tape were to loosen up, it might be possible to spend significantly less money on unnecessary matters, as far as operational firefighters are concerned. We know that 54 are necessary in society, and we all know that we do not have them in a voluntary fire company in a village, but we still need to have 54 people's equipment, and we do have 20 or 15 real volunteer firefighters or operational firefighters who are always on the ground. And such matters are quite something that the Firefighters could also release in some way and there could be more money for real equipment, especially more money for education, which voluntary firefighting companies need most for individuals. If there is, it is my opinion, the local community or local self-government, the one who is smart, the mayor very well ensures that our voluntary firefighting companies are well equipped. As I monitor things, I see that such good equipment as our volunteer firefighters have, it's about cars, equipment, they have little place. I think that's right, and no money we throw into a voluntary fire company is thrown away because we never know when we need firefighters. I'm not going to be a demagog, but you know that today fire companies, individuals, at least, thank God, they're putting out, but they're doing everything else that's needed in the local community -- from being a director, from regulating a lot of things that some other institution might be doing. When it is difficult, we use fire companies in the congregations, and so on. Very simple, I wouldn't be very complicated, it's very easy when they go into action, a fire car that's for a C exam can drive a fire extinguisher who does some B exam check. We just have to do this. If we get cops, paramedics, and all those who help in difficult situations in here, we've done a lot. However, I also agree with Janie and the like, you know, we are already in the previous mandate, including the SMC, if you remember, and I think that Franz Breznik also advocated this law on these engines, which we register, so that we will not do the same now, so that we can make a law again that will allow some to serve in an easy way. That's why I think it's necessary to be very careful here and find a variant of how, in some controlled way, with small means to make operational firefighters even more operational and not wait for a man who is not at home or somewhere else to pass the exam. I absolutely support this in some way, and who will end up giving a medal because of this law, but please, I will just press the "for" button. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you so much for the first sentence and for the debate. Now, first, the replica of the Blackbell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Han said he was a Minister of Black, so he could settle the matter. I was a minister for a year, between 2012 and 2013. You have ruled from 2013 to today for six years, why you have not settled this matter in six years, Mr Han. But I would have arranged it if he'd been a minister for at least another year. Not only that, but many others [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Because the priorities have been set. At that time, the ministry introduced cheap tickets for students and students within six months, where savings on one student were around EUR thousand and 500 per year. Here is a savings of 500 to 700 euros if the cost of examination, what we would do, is appreciated, is unique, once in a lifetime. So we first introduced a cheap ticket for students and students, at the time the ZUJF was in force, with the same amount of state money. Now it took five years for these students and students to get a single train and bus ticket, but not all other public transport users still have cheap single tickets. But there's no SDS in power, now there's another government.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Replica, Janja Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I have to respond because colleague Han says I'm a fighter for firefighters. I'm a fighter for firefighters, and I'm a fighter for a lot of people. But that's why I don't expect any medals. And, colleague Han, you like to go a little crazy sometimes, but good, that's your way. I also did not take 70% of my time to speak to my colleague because I have now come to the debate within the time of our Group of Members. So I didn't waste anyone's time. However, I have three more minutes to propose, which is significantly less than a colleague who is likely to drop by at the end, and I will not be able to. But there's something else I'd like to say. Yes, I'm a fighter for firefighters, because basically from the first day of my previous term, when I was first invited to a general assembly, I sat down with them, and then we also talked about what you, colleague Han, now point out, some of the obstacles that firefighters put themselves within the Firehouse. I agree with you, there are things that we should do ourselves, which represent very great bulwarks, we can talk about equipment, we can talk about a lot of things, we can talk about training at the end of the day, how they are going, how they cost, how they are being organised by the Firefighters Association, but these are still things that they have to handle themselves, within themselves, I will say. However, there are things where the state, the legislative or executive branch of power can come to the aid, the two that we are regulating today, and the two that we have regulated in the previous mandate, as well as the technical checks for vehicles owned by voluntary firefighting companies, which transport children back to the case that technical checks are not carried out for six months, but for one year. These are very specific things, but they're very fond of firefighters. So I think it's a good idea that we all stepped together on such a thing, brought this law to the table, and that we're obviously going to accept it. This should be a practice not only for firefighters, but also for someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The text is by Franz Jurša and will be discussed by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u166	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! I'd say to start with how cool it was almost to the end. It got a little stuck just before the end, but not so much that we couldn't move on. We're all thinking about how we're gonna help the fire department. I tell you the truth, I'm the same, and that's what I want from you in the first place. We all like to say we're firemen. Yes, because if you live in a small place in Slovenia, it is simple and simply not possible to be a firefighter. Now, let me start with one piece of information, I think that I haven't told you yet in this National Assembly, at least this composition, not that I come from an environment where each village, but the smallest village, even if there are 30 houses in the village, has your own voluntary fire company. I'm very proud. But all these fire companies have a minimum GV-1 or GVV-1 or 2 or whatever it is. [[advertising from the hall]] . One, with water. That's it. Everyone has it in fact, and it's right that they do. Let me tell you something else. Since we have so many companies in the municipalities, despite signing a public fire service contract with the municipality of a voluntary fire company, the municipalities simply do not have enough money to finance everyone at 80, 90 or 100 %. But they're funding maybe 50%. For all else, firefighters obtain additional money in one way or another so that they can finance the purchase of this equipment. Someone was also discussing the extent to which a voluntary firefighters' society must have. Yes, every fire company must have a certain number of operatives, depending on what kind of fire environment it has and which category it belongs to a voluntary fire company. I have to say that with us, because there are so many, more or less of them in the first category, they could also be in the fifth category. Some societies that have a large environment fall into the fifth category, of course, there is also a need to provide the additional miscellaneous equipment needed to save from heights, rescue on the road and so on. And if you hadn't been too long and wouldn't have sold out about it, which is probably what you know about at least those who are somewhere near the fire department. You know what I'm happy for? Especially since there hasn't been a drop in voluntary fire companies for several years. That we have a circus in Slovenia of thousands of 341 companies, most of them from the field, something also from industry and that we have 151 000 or at the last count of 162 thousand firefighters. This is a large group of people who are willing to help at a given time when this assistance is urgently needed. For some volunteer firefighters, this is a way of life, believe it or not, a way of life. They identify themselves with a fire company, a voluntary fire company and, of course, an operational company. Some put more emphasis on organizational work. The Republic Protection and Rescue Authority shall allocate a certain part of the funding of certain fire-fighting vehicles. Each year, calls and calls are made for companies to respond to these calls, as well as in public fire service contracts, certain funds are allocated to the purchase of new equipment and firefighting vehicles. We don't have to talk about this in particular. However, I must say that they have a specific specification for each vehicle and outside of this specification simply and simply the Fire liaison does not allow the equipment to be procured, which I think is right. We remember from the past, there were a lot of different vehicles belonging to firefighting companies, especially when companies were still receiving older cars as a gift. Today, I must say that most volunteer fire companies have their new vehicles — more or less new vehicles. I would also say that, after all, such proposals need to be supported. I'm sure we've taken one step further here. What Janja discussed, too, was the possibility of educating firefighters who will drive these vehicles. True, it doesn’t matter whether you drive a tanker or what they need to do to put out fires that can be used by that car, that it’s not the same if you drive full, full, or empty. In fact, some additional education is needed here and we will educate this within the centres set up by the Protection and Rescue Authority. Right, we have these centers both in the east and in the west of our country. To conclude, I will be happy to support this proposal at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word, and he will be discussed by Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Even on my part, the best we've ever heard. Mr. Tanko, many healthy years! As far as today's bill is concerned, more or less everything has been said, I would like to present myself as a proposaler in the introduction where are the essential things that we are touching ourselves. Above all, the focus is on firefighters, which is essential, and also all objectives and objectives, and the aim was to focus primarily on firefighters for their easier work, for better operationalisation. We know that fire companies in Slovenia are many, some 800 or more. There are many of these operative firefighters, who do not have exams or categories C1 as we have heard many times before, they need to be made, they need to be paid, voluntary firefighters of society, we know that they have as much money as they receive from the local community — more or less — and as much as they themselves provide with a variety of activities. We know that firefighters are very, very good and they can also organise themselves well, and every euro they receive then invests in better equipment, in better spaces, in infrastructure. It is not easy for them, but we know that everyone would like to have as much equipment as possible, as much space as possible, as much space as possible for their work, their mission, but we also know that everything costs very, very much and then they need to be helped somehow. As much as they can, the municipalities can get something from any call for proposals or from the Firehouse Association, they also get various benefits, but everyone would like to be as good as possible. We look next door, and if it's better there than they are, of course, they're looking for some solutions to make them better than the neighbor. This is also right, this competition, it seems to me that the delivery of their services is much better. But we know that they are doing everything for the benefit and well-being of citizens, citizens, citizens, citizens. With this law, this amendment and addition we wanted and pursued the goal of helping firefighters, helping voluntary firefighters; it is said that we will make it easier for them to work to appreciate the matter without being in the end, as we have heard slightly, even on the same as we have been. Then we didn't do anything. We need to make use of all these state resources that we have at our disposal and allow firefighters to obtain this additional education with a tailor-made programme and content that is intended for them to be for firefighters. Since we have already heard – and I agree myself – that when a C1 category is managed, then a boy or a girl with this category comes into the firehouse, the question is whether he doesn't still do it there with his superior or with someone who already has experience driving these GVV vehicles — which he has to do and be there for a few hours, then he can actually handle this vehicle properly, even if it's loaded with water and so on. So that category C1 is more than just on paper. It would therefore be very appropriate and recommended that, in addition to obtaining or valid driving licence for category B, they carry out this additional education, which will be specifically intended and will serve the driving of these vehicles. Of course, we must not forget the paramedics here, and we have touched them, and we will also take care of the paramedics because they have very similar problems. For everyone else: mountain rescue service, civil protection, underwater rescue and so on; in short, for all these vehicles with advantage. Once again, we all want to make this change together — and I can see that we also have this opinion — in order to facilitate and appreciate the acquisition of this permit by firefighters, without ultimately making it even more difficult for them. This is also our goal and desire, and I believe, and as follows, this support in the first reading has already been announced and will not be a problem. However, we will, of course, have a number of things to discuss on the Committee and will certainly also take into account the Government's proposals, which we have received just before the debate today. There will probably be another matter to drink, but of course we will have to touch on all the other matters that are still proposed. Also, those things that speak of a driver who has acquired category B and F after six months would also acquire category BE. Of course, we heard the government's negative position. We have read the law in force and have also seen in the fourth paragraph of Article 60 of the current Drivers Act, which provides that a person who has a valid driving licence of category B, BE and so on to DE, for at least six months, shall also be granted a driving licence of category F — that is, tractors — if he successfully conducts a safe operation course with tractors and tractors. Then we just went back. We've obviously hit some small problems here because of the European directive, but I think we're going to have to rethink some of these things and try to find some solutions. For we will have enough time and will put on the table all those arguments that are not few – somehow all in the sense of some logic and healthy farm. I think it's time to move on, not back, and with vehicles, there's a lot going on with technology, and we're obviously taking some older things into account. I think we will still have a lot to redevelop here, as well as the proposal put forward by Mr Zvonko Černač in the debate. He also made quite some interesting points, and I think that the time will be enough to discuss this and that we will actually, once we have an open Drivers Act, take the maximum. All together; it is said, more or less in the cooperation of all of us here, and we have done a great deal of work, a great benefit for all of those we have already mentioned; so the firefighters, rescuers After the new, of course, we will also add the officers, who, as already fellow Member Janja Servant, have said that we wanted them to be with us. [[...]] They are now — according to the government’s position, we have heard that, and we can see that it is written. In short, we want to do something good for all these groups, and I believe and I hope that the Secretary of State will now take a close look at these proposals and that they will also be studied well in the Government. When the time comes, the additional coordinations on the parent committee itself, I hope that again, as at the very beginning of this process of amending the Drivers Act, we will find a common language and we will actually make the best of it. So that we don't put in a lot of work at the end, we're going to have a huge debate, and in the end, it's not going to be the way we all thought it would be. I really want us all to find a truly common language, which will then lead to these comprehensive, best, best-friendly solutions for all these groups, i.e. from firefighters, rescuers and so on. I am pleased that the debate is also taking place in such an interesting tone. It is right that we may hear something that is usually heard at the meetings when it is possible only to encourage us to think a little bit more about the others, and this will make us think more intelligently. I am so looking forward to further discussion. However, since I am also a debater at this point, I must say once again that I will also be very happy and proud to confirm this amendment and to supplement the Drivers Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much, too, first for that introductory part and then for the debate. Before I give the floor forward, I would also like to propose to the Secretary of State if he considers that any response to all these concerns is needed, some have been said both by the coalition members and the opposition members, and they refer to your opinion, which you forwarded just before the meeting to the Members. If you want, it's optional. I can do it later, but... [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u170	I can, I want a few minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u171	Please, if you'll stand up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u172	I would like to reiterate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, supports the proposal of the amendment of the law, that it has adopted a positive position on this proposal, i.e. the draft law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act in the works I have already listed. I will only present or mention some of the conclusions arising from the inter-departmental coordination between our ministry, between the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Defence and the Office of the Government of Law. The Ministry of Defence did not fully agree with these proposals and together we have found that the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Resolution, which is supposed to be in charge of the implementation of the trainings under consideration for these purposes, does not currently have staffing, organisational and spatial conditions. The establishment of these would also require significant financial resources and organisational changes. On the basis of their views, we then, together with the Government’s Law Service, mediated or drafted amendments. You agreed with some amendments today, but you didn't agree with certain amendments. I will limit myself to those who have been troubled here today. This is mainly the case with the 2nd and 3rd amendments, namely, that the implementation of training and certification programmes for the issue of certificates of this competence, the maintenance of records of the programme carried out and so on, by the AVP, the Agency for Transport Safety is to be authorised by the legal person. In the context of the 3rd amendment, in order to carry out professional supervision of the content, scope, expertise and quality of implementation, it shall then be determined by the Public Transport Safety Agency. Of course, it would be illogical and impossible for the Agency to prepare the tenders, and then the Agency would also carry out professional supervision, so we somehow separated these two contents. However, as I mentioned earlier, the Inspectorate will be responsible for the inspection. However, as far as the financial implications mentioned are concerned, I do not recall saying that they cannot be anticipated, but usually the financial consequences are foreseen by the applicant. We believe that these things should be further refined and well evaluated. You can, of course, work with the department, but it's an evaluation. I have made it clear that we estimate that the cost will be around €900 per person. However, we reiterate our support for the amendment of the law, but we would not want to go into lowering standards, at least as far as security is concerned. This, I think, must still lead to the promotion of transport safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nina Mauhler. Now we continue the debate. Janja Slug has the word as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We still have a little, but still. The proposer must provide for public financial effects. Where firefighters carry out a category C examination, they shall pay for this examination on their own. If, instead of taking Exam C now, some specific training under the Directorate of Protection and Rescue is to be provided, however, they will also pay for this training on their own. What's the cost, we'll see. But I don't understand why we're here talking about some public finances if they're not there.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Franz Breznik has the word, he'll be followed by Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, thank you, I can say, for somehow unity today, at least in this law, when it comes to firefighters for more than 800 fire brigades in the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone who's ever been invited, or who's also in charge of a fire truck, maybe you're donating something when buying a fire truck, we can say, we know at least these two guys, which are also being discussed. So the GVV-1 and the GV-1 that we will at least know what we are talking about, that, as colleague Han spoke today, we will talk about the mother, where some others were in that previous marriage you mentioned earlier. Some people said it was mopeds. Actually, it wasn't the mopeds, it was the bikes with the auxiliary engine. Because a moped is a term for a bicycle that reaches between 25 and 45 kilometers per hour. But to return to this darkness. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said, but from my practice, my vision as a former official of the Ministry of Defence, where I have also worked in the field of logistics, I will say a fairly practical case that we can incorporate in another reading. See, the Slovenian Army had major problems at the beginning when we bought the Puch field vehicles, especially the Puch vehicles with the automatic gearbox. These were mainly 230 G petrol engines, as well as some diesel engines, although those diesel engines 300 of the first quota, 1991, had mostly manual transmissions. But what happened — people couldn't control them! First of all, they fitted, like on the ground, the differential lock, most of these guns had a front and last lock on the differential that was mechanically fitting in. Of course, they forgot to turn it off, and when they came to the asphalt road, they often even destroyed the whole card and so on. There was also a problem with such a vehicle when a vehicle was carrying a load, such as when a vehicle was damaged when it was to be hauled. This is a specificity of the automatic transmission and also of the operation of this vehicle in hard-to-reach areas. So when you turn on the prison differential and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so forth, and everything else, how you drive in these steeples and the whole theory. I would like to say that in the Slovenian Army we have introduced additional training years ago – and here is the topic – where, for example, all B category exam holders have received a small booklet, so that they also have training for Puch vehicles with automatic gearbox and can operate this vehicle on the basis of this training. I'm just giving an idea, maybe some minimal correction, so we don't complicate it. Here I agree – I think my colleague Jurša said earlier – that this training is done at the Protection and Rescue Authority, because there also firefighters perform other exams that they also perform – different for different levels, officers and everything else. What does this exam look like? I mean, at least for the first category of vehicles we mentioned that this could be a test that takes place in one day. It is possible to make some pre-departure in its own fire department on the ground where people are familiar with the vehicle, its technical characteristics, the capabilities on the ground where it is used, including everything else, and then it is possible to do some specifics in that vehicle which is heavier, which has a larger mass or also a trailer, where it is possible to run in a single day on a particular range and ends with this. Based on this practice, you can also draw it out of the Slovenian Army, issue to this man the Department of Protection and Rescue – this is one book, it looks like an exam and that is it. Most likely, when I talk about costs, the minimum cost – too bad there is no secretary of state here – and the matter is closed. In this regard, I think that, even from a security point of view, even in the unit itself, the fire brigades are teams, they know how someone is capable of driving a vehicle, and they're actually making some pre-prepared with this candidate. And it can be done in one day. Just like those cars I told you about before. I think that we will satisfy most of these standards and this transparency here is true – I see that also the fellow Servant, I thank you, we nod – so let us do this transparency and also this fear of some great disasters and I do not know what it is, I think it is over. This is my proposal. I will be relatively brief in this debate. We have some good practice of the Slovenian Army, and I think we can also follow this practice in this aspect of the Drivers Act, as said by colleague Doblekar, for firefighters, not least of the lobster units, divers and all the other rescue vehicles, etc. Here you could introduce some unity in all of this; so you submit a basic examination, which is overlooked, and you submit a certificate that you have trained for this type of vehicle, and the matter is closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. She'll get the word "Alenka Jeraj" for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. As we have already heard today, and as we can understand from the material on this subject, the proposal for amendments and additions to the Drivers Act was prepared for first reading more than a year ago. I was not a member of Parliament at the time, but I was very pleased that there was a legal solution to facilitate the operation of firefighters mainly in voluntary firefighting companies. As a member, one of them, I was well aware of this problem, as this problem was even more pronounced in smaller PGDs. Smaller companies have GV-1 and GVV-1 vehicles but lack drivers who would have passed the C category exam. The proposed legislation is based on the European Driving Licences Directive, which provides that the Member States of the European Union may exclude vehicles operated by armed forces and civil protection or vehicles under their control from the application of that Directive. Therefore, the proposal for amendments to the law includes, in addition to drivers of smaller fire trucks, drivers of intervention vehicles, civil protection, mountain, cavernous and underwater rescue services at the level of the State and mobile unit of the ecological laboratory and drivers of rescue and special vehicles for the provision of emergency medical assistance. In doing so, it should be noted that vehicles designed and constructed in such a way that, in addition to the driver space for a maximum of 8 passengers, the maximum permissible mass exceeds 3 thousand 500 kilograms and does not exceed 5 thousand 500 kilograms. Exceeding the maximum permissible mass shall be the result of equipment transported by the vehicle for the purpose of effective intervention. Performing a C examination will replace theoretical and practical training of candidates. The programme, method of training and method of knowledge verification shall be determined by the Minister responsible for defence, in agreement with the Minister of Health and the Minister responsible for transport. However, the content of the training programme must be comparable to that of the training programme for obtaining a C1 driving licence. Of course, we should not forget the medical certificate of physical and mental ability to drive motor vehicles of category C1. The programme shall be implemented by the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and resolution and the law shall also allow the possibility of granting the mandate to external contractors on the basis of a call for tender. Here I would like to refer to my colleague, Franz Breznik, who has given a wonderful idea today. It is a pity that there was no secretary of state and that she is still not in the Chamber to hear him talk about the easier way of education and not in the long procedures that she has exposed exclusively to security aspects. I believe that he did not mean that security aspects would not be covered in order to disregard driving safety. On the contrary, I believe that everyone who has a category B made, knows how to drive a vehicle that you can drive up to 3,000 thousand pounds, even if it was 3,000 thousand pounds. Let me point out at this point that I am probably one of the few Members and Members who have been a member of the firefighting society for 30 years and have passed the exams, all exams except for the F category. At this point, I can say from practice that I am joining Janji Slug, who says that it is a big difference to drive a vehicle that is full of water or semi-full of water or an empty vehicle. Let me stress that I myself have driven a real vehicle of 40 tonnes, and I can tell you that this is very difficult on the road and that the braking routes are much longer, but this is what we are talking about on the road and the cargo is tied. But the water's not attached to the tanks. In spite of the C category, firefighters were given special training, went to Austria as well, paid additional funds to learn how to handle vehicles that drive water or liquid, since such vehicles behave differently on the road than vehicles that carry a load that is fastened. I would also like to stress the purpose and narration that we want to achieve through the proposed regulation. The purpose of the new regime is to ensure that firefighters and other civil protection interventors are better responsibly and more effective in the event of 24 hours a day interventions, in the whole of Slovenia. It gives rise to the burden of carrying out the C category driving examination for a particular group of members of those organisations and the financial burden of those structures. It is clear from the explanations that the implementation of the law should have no public financial implications. It is at this point that we must be careful; in the preparation and implementation of the training programme, in the allocation of powers and in the operationalisation of others, that we will not end up again in the current or even worse situation than we have today. Today, it is very popular to prescribe large-scale training programmes to meet the conditions for the implementation of certain activities and, as a result, to monitor them. In short, the law should actually burden those target groups and increase their response and effectiveness in carrying out interventions and not vice versa. On the proposed solutions in relation to Article 85, paragraph 5, of the Drivers Act, which lays down the conditions and circumstances in which certain persons or holders of driving licences are required to carry out a medical examination in an authorised healthcare professional in whose territory they are resident, I am of the opinion that this has now been completely non-existent. The health situation is also so because of the human resources problems resulting from the long waiting periods and we cannot guarantee the equal implementation of these legal provisions. However, medical examinations of authorised healthcare providers must be carried out in accordance with uniform standards in the territory of all Slovenia. On the basis of the above, I will be happy to support the proposed solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. There has been another change since then, so I invite Branet Golubović. I see he's not here. And as the last discusser of Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u180	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the novelty of the driver law, which touches on fire. A while ago, we are listening by the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, the Fire Associations, occasionally the Directorates for the Rescue and Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, so that at this point we are talking about today something needs to be changed or complemented. When we hear the word firework, it certainly puts us all at one common point so that this issue needs to be addressed in a special way. Recently, in the previous term, let me remind you that we talked about one law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In that law, we also found out how many laws we have in the Republic of Slovenia and how many under-laws we have. Of course, these data burden Slovenians and Slovenians at every turn. So I can go back to the fire department. When we expect firefighters to come to our aid, we expect them to be the most professional, especially, and most of the time, to be the fastest when it comes to saving lives or material goods. This novel of the law, which is now on the parliamentary benches, which has left-hand, right-hand support, I am a little afraid, but I hope that this fear is overtaken that there will be no intervention between this first and the second reading, some harsh interference with this novel, so perhaps with the government – and I repeat that my fear will be overtaken – and also from some external factors. When we talk about those people who have these categories, we have already seen through the debate that, most of the time, those members of the C-category fire brigades have this category primarily because of their professions that they use every day, and since this profession is a driver's profession, many times it happens that these members, when they receive a call, are very far from their firehouse or from the point where this vehicle is waiting for an invitation, and also very far away from one of the accidents that happened. That is why I think it is all right, and I welcome this effort by my colleague Doblekar and also by Mrs Slug to make some changes in this segment. As I said in the introduction, it is an obstacle; the obstacle that those people, these are firefighters and firefighters in the Republic of Slovenia, when they receive an invitation, when they most often do not know where they are going, what they are in the accident, will put the burden on them, so that if they sit behind a vehicle whose mass exceeds 3.5 tonnes, they will not get any fines. Once again, I repeat my fear, and I believe and hope that this fear is too great that, during this first and second reading of this novel of the Drivers Act, the factors that might have intervened in this good purpose of the new law in such a way that, in the end, when we press the button in the second reading, this novel of the law was not intended for what much effort was put into it by Mr Doblekar and Mrs Slug as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which the word is also given to the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer. Would you like to speak with Secretary of State Nina Mauhler? [[He doesn't want to.]] She wants to speak to Janja the Servant? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you. I would like to thank all my colleagues for today's constructive debate. In fact, there have been some good suggestions, but here I have to join in the opinion of the last debater, Mr Podkrodsk. I'm kind of scared right now, too. Every time I read the government's opinion, and now that I have 900 euros per person in my head, it was absolutely not meant to be! So I'm thinking that in the meantime we're all going to have to sit down with the proponents again, and maybe we can bring in some security guards so that it doesn't happen by accident, that there's going to be a regulation that's too extensive, too demanding, I don't know what kind of program just to get paid again, I don't know who, I don't know why. Because that's certainly not the point. What my colleague Breznik said is absolutely enough and we will return to some initial position to talk about some 30 hours and some thousand euros per person. I'm sure that's not the point. In the meantime, one of the versions of the law, when we discussed it, was significantly broader and included a partial programme of this training, and then we took the matter out in a conversation with the Ministry of Infrastructure. If there is a need, we can certainly return and set up some security guards here so that the purpose will not be born. As I said, thank you again. I also hope for a constructive debate below.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Last one, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to fly a few things by in no time. Once again, as my proposer, I thank everyone very much for the constructive debate, for participating in this substantive debate. Once again, I will quickly touch on what the State Secretary has said about these 900 euros, which gives us some fear, or at the end of the day, we ask ourselves whether there is anything else to do, or whether we let C1 firefighters work cheerfully forward, pay the firefighters' fees to the auto schools, and then when the firefighter comes from the C1 school category to the firehouse to drive the car – he can't drive it. Otherwise, you mentioned lowering standards earlier, if I understand correctly and so on, so that we will not lower standards. We do not want to lower standards, indeed, certainly not and category B acquired and this additional education – as if we heard Mr Breznik or know it ourselves, because we have drawn these conclusions on the basis of this too – this education is already taking place in the military. This is nothing new, we do not detect hot water, this is the old thing that was settled with the law on the European directive, which we missed at the time. That's how it runs, it costs about 100 euros, that education is done by soldiers, and then they drive these vehicles, so they have this certificate that they always get through this education and they only drive for the military's sake. It's exactly the same here. I don't know how much they're taking C1 schools, but I think it's a little bit of a scare or whatever. I believe that this price will fall strongly until the first meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure when we talk about it. At least that's the way I want it, because once again: we want to give firefighters a cheaper and easier job. You know, everyone who has to do this exam today, in these times when everything happens quickly and when everyone has some responsibilities, this time spent is also worth a lot of money. Plus there's so much money to give. If we just look – I can only look at my voluntary fire company in Lithuania and also their regular firefighter, only one in the professional core, which can be, if there is a voluntary firefighter in the fourth category – which is also lithium – and he also advised me, and then he impressed me that we went to these changes at all, in addition to the Firehouse Association and the previous proponents of last year. They would like to have a fire rescue and rescue centre that is urgently needed without being in the old facilities that can barely afford all the spaces for such modern cars and hovercrafts, but I do not know what is absolutely necessary today, but there is no money for this centre to be built. In some ways, let us try to allow them to spend the money they spend in different ways – including those calendars for the new year, but I do not know as much as possible, but to attend various events where they also earn some euro and the local community gives through the municipal budget – let us help them save this money and invest it in what is absolutely necessary. But here we will not lower standards and try to find really these solutions, which we also, of course, with this amendment and the addition of the Drivers Act, propose together and really help them as best we can, and I believe that we will come to that. Once again, this deregulation, what we want, debarcation and appreciation should be the basic guidance of all of us who are now fighting here, that we will all be together, of course including the Government, because I believe that you have no evil intentions, that the Government will somehow try to block our initiatives and proposals, which I think are very, very good. Not to say they're populism, as mentioned, but these are some real expectations of firefighters, and we're here to realize them. Of course, I'll say it again, not by lowering standards. If someone, at least to me, proved or explained to me that we would lower the standard somewhere and that any security or anything would be at the expense of this, of course they would not agree. In this case, when we build on a case of good practice already operating in the Slovenian Army, I do not think we will find anything new if we continue along this path with firefighters, rescuers, cavemen, underwater rescuers and all the others that we have mentioned so many times today. So once again, just in the end – and of course the police, which is also involved – I am glad that we found a common language, that we have opened up some topics in the debate, some things that we may not have thought so much about before, we have devoted so much attention to them, but it is true that this view of the Government must, of course, be taken into account. I will, and I will, and it only saddens me that I got it on the table only after I have already presented my position or as a proposal for a proposal for these amendments and a supplement to the Drivers Act. But it's okay, we got him now. The law appears to be confirmed in the first reading, for which I thank everyone very much, but of course this opinion of the Government and all the other comments together will also be examined and also concluded by a second reading debate at the meeting of the home committee. I count and I hope that this marriage will go through, as we all imagined together, and we will do one good work together, all of us, as far as we are in this house of democracy, including the respected government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss it under Article 71? There's a few reports. Before we start the procedure, just the following. If you would also like to discuss one of the representatives of the proposer and a representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative or representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. There are five of you registered. Everyone has five minutes at their disposal. First he gets the word Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must apologize for having been reported in the debate earlier, but I had to be absent because I had a meeting, and just at the time that it was my turn to discuss it. First of all, I'm very happy that this marriage came to the table. I am particularly glad that we have found a broader political consensus in the National Assembly, which I must say is particularly happy. This also proves that we can do more. We have also proved this through this bill; we have exceeded the political boundaries, we are doing what people expect us to do. I'm thinking of firefighters here in particular. There have been major debates about firefighters in this Chamber of Democracy, but unfortunately, we have also tabled many proposals in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and there was nothing in the end. Today, somehow, we have also managed to put together political differences of views for the benefit of our firefighters and firefighters. that we do not speak only when we need firefighters to help them solve what is mourning them and where they have problems in carrying out all that is their work cycle. In particular, I think that this law is going in the right direction, especially so that firefighters can carry out their tasks at operational level effectively and as quickly as possible. This often depends on the success of intervention, where time is extremely important, especially when we are talking about saving lives, property, fires and so on. These noble acts of theirs are often seen when they do so. This is why I can especially confirm that I will personally support the Drivers Act because I consider this to be the right course for what I said in the previous sentence. And that is that we allow firefighters and firefighters to carry out their work according to what is their key task in our society, and that we are all, each of us, extremely proud of their work. Personally, since I am also a firefighter, and of course all those sitting here in the National Assembly are aware of the importance of their role and their role in our society when they do their work. Once again, I will be happy to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. I must express the satisfaction that it has found itself in solving this problem, such as some sort of plebiscite majority. Obviously, solving some issues does not know political colors, and I am pleased to hear that. Today we have a few more bills to vote on. It's too bad there hasn't been such coordination. Obviously, this Drivers Act is a school of some kind that needs to be approached at an early stage, that we need to approach one another, and that perhaps sometimes we need to discuss the content. It is true that we have only the first reading today and that some solution may be further complemented or better defined below, but this law will be worth remembering, after all, that this desire for these changes has been on the ground for a long time and that in the end we have come to an agreement in a broader circle. As I mentioned earlier, today we have another vote, it has been mentioned, they have also been in the context of this law, which we are now considering, namely the Drivers Act, including other laws, and we have discussed red tape on previous laws, mopeds and the like. You know, if you had listened to each other repeatedly, I am sure that you would have found a common language about these other laws, but perhaps you would not have defined them as more important or not. We also have different opinions about these laws today, namely the Drivers Act, and the Holiday Act, perhaps the Income Act, which are most important at this time. But if we find a common language, then there are fewer problems that need to be solved. I hope that such a constructive debate will take place further in the consideration of this law. I'm sure there's a lot more support between firefighters. Last but not least, there are some colleagues of voluntary firefighters' societies, I believe they have listened to the rest of their colleagues, and I am sure that this law, such as this, will be the adoption of a possible journey for cooperation in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I welcome the bill. I think it will make it very easy for many voluntary firefighters to work, but at the same time I welcome the path of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has made us aware of all relevant facts and circumstances and does not follow the course of populism. It is only right that we do not introduce into firefighting the ease known to everyone by the song The syringe. Nevertheless, I will support the proposal of the Drivers Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out once again that I am deeply saddened by the State Secretary's debate at work when it comes to a populist law that forgets the safety of drivers. Let me point out once again that in school, drivers learn to drive on vehicles with a fixed load and firefighters need a safe ride where the load is not attached because we all know that the water cannot be attached. Let me stress once again that the schools have training mainly from practical work for firefighters who must already have a C-category exam and take them to Austria for training where they learn to drive such vehicles. It is said that there is no connection here to safe driving, the C1 category obtained at the auto schools, with the actual driving of fire vehicles. That is why I think it is much better for them to pass the exam as predicted by the novelty of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u193	Thank you very much. There's only one final debater, Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u194	I'll call you back. Thank you very much. To conclude, I will once again express great satisfaction at all this debate in the National Assembly on the Drivers Act. In February, when we introduced this amendment to the driver law in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the first time, and later, when the coalition also examined this law, which, of course, had already proposed in some form, last year, I was really, very happy that colleague Janja Slug had joined me and then continued this path, which, as I have heard from some of the debaters, was a unique example and good practice of cooperation, which can produce only good fruits. I believe that this proposal of this law will also make this example of good practice of training soldiers, in the way that we propose to rescuers, police officers and, above all, firefighters, that such a case will be seen by the light of the world, and that we will somehow go along this path and find these solutions, which we have also proposed. I really want to go on, after confirmation, as it shows, which I am extremely happy to have come up with a good law that will work according to some logic that will be lifelike and that will help so many users. Again, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further discussion, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour, within the framework of the votes. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and the 7th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5 p.m. and 40 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 17.08 and resumed at 17.40.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u196	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] If you want, we can have some more rest. Thank you. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 1 of the agenda. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Please check the voting devices. Thank you. We are moving on to a broken 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law amending the Act on Holidays and Work of the Days in the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. [[advertising from the hall]] First question. Does anyone wish to give an opinion on behalf of the Group? Nobody. Does anyone want to give an opinion as an individual Member? Let's go check in. Can we do it again? I'm sorry. We've got four applications. First of all, you have the floor, Mr. Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The marines were leaving their land, leaving the Alexandrians, leaving the boys in Abesinia and fighting for someone else, and eventually for themselves. Why do we have holidays? So that we can celebrate these past days and the past people to celebrate events and give special effect to them — the craftsmen, the modernists, and even the ancestors. We still seem to be lacking in unity if only one word divides us into so many different currents and so many different beliefs. I am sure that the Primors were always part of Slovenia in the heart, and fate was made for them in London, in Paris, and today in just one word we are also making it in Ljubljana. I'll be happy to confirm this, because I know it's because of the activity. If you come back, then you go somewhere and you come back, that's passivity. But if you get something, then you can join us. And this is also said by the refrain of the unofficial coastal anthem »Rising the Primorska You into a new life, with a raised head step in a new time.” And that's what he wants to stress. I'm sure I'll confirm it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Robert Polnar. Stand by, Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. I supported or signed a request for a change of law. This decision I made wasn't right. In 1942, in Gorica, someone with a barbaric jaw and a funny helmet on a rooster feather screamed in the middle of a prefectural balcony: “All the men of this damned tribe must be put to death.” That damn tribe, we were Slovenians. These plans are still in force today, and no one has canceled them. The Roman authorities are the same as us, the Eastern neighbours, regardless of their political nomenclature, always the same and the same – arrogant and offensive, slipperyly sneaky, shameless, resourceful and swindling, and never stupid. What Tajani and Salvini are saying today is only a reflection of a historical never-exceeded fascism that is most pronounced in the thought of temporarily lost territories. Just as a change of law is intended, only oil at the fire of Italian iridentism can be used. I have no habit of repeating my mistakes, so I will vote against it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the word Dr. Milan Brglez, prepare for Mrs. Jerca Korče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that! I will vote in favour of this law because there are valid international legal reasons why such a concept is correct. Indeed, the Paris Peace Treaty itself with Italy as well as the Ottoman Agreements speak very clearly about these terms — the withdrawal of Italy’s territory and the accession of that territory to Yugoslavia. So this term is absolutely internationally undeniable. This is also why the concept of this law is appropriate. However, in the case of such contracts, there are two other security guards that are very important. First and foremost; treaties that set limits are so-called radical international treaties. These are protected against any unilateral act of any State and bind everyone in the international community. So they have a special status on which the existence of the international community depends. And the other thing that's no less important is the totally inappropriate equation of Anschluss and similar matters. In fact, when it comes to occupation, no one can admit it, and the occupation that would be connected to the merger is out of the question. However, when it comes to the liberation recognised by the Peace Treaty, in such a case the accession is the right time and is totally legal under international law. I am speaking internationally, so that there will not only be historical arguments. International law is totally true and we are not doing anything wrong, but we are returning our feelings to where they must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Jerca Korce, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you for your word! I have given much thought to my decision to sign, while we have already had this in the process when my signature has already been signed, and I believe that this decision was still quite correct. If not otherwise, I have had many conversations at this time with some, not an economist, but historians and quite a few young people of my age who live in our adulterous country; and as many historians as there are, there have been so many opinions on this subject. We've all probably been getting these and different messages, calls and so on. However, in this place, despite all of this – just from this process that has been raised in me through the consideration of this topic – I would finally once again call on all Members and Members to continue with this process mainly in the direction of education. Since no understanding of any holiday, perhaps a return, connection or reunion, will help us unless our apprentices and our youngest ones know why we are celebrating these holidays in the first place. I believe that this situation in our country is not so ideal that we can be proud of it and the change in name itself will not contribute to it. So I think it is high time that we introduce these things into the educational processes, in addition to knowing the ancients, the Baroque and all the Egyptian pyramids, more actively and also parts of the self-sustaining process, because it is high time to bury the battle axes that may still exist within the old policy and move this train forward. That way, my voice will be absolved today because I don't want to define myself around the name, but I had to say this part that I want to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Dear Members, honourable Members, we begin our vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 32. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROTOCOL TO THE GENEVA CONVENTIONS OF 12 IN AUGUST 1949 ON THE PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF INTERNATIONAL ARMED COUNTRIES, THIS IS PROTOCOL I, OF 8 A.M. June 1977, as amended by 30. NOVEMBER 1993 The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the time of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal by the Act on the Supplementation of the Act on the Notification of the Heritage of the Conventions of the World of Europe, the Geneva Conventions and the Additional Protocols on the Protection of Victims of War and International Agreements on the Field of Control of Weapons, for which the Depositaries of the Three Main Nuclear Forces are depositaries. The draft act was tabled by the Government. The draft act was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the draft act. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour. [[The vote was 81.]] [[Against no one.]] . I understand that the acts have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is Mandating-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial function of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mr Jan Šömn as Judge of the District Court in Maribor. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Ms Dashi Sikošek, representative of the Council of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u205	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The reasons for the invitation to tender for the vacant seat of the District Court of Maribor are the human resources weakenings in the Criminal Division of the Court. Of the original seven judges, only four judges remained in the department. Two district judges were assigned back to the District Court because of their needs, and one judge was appointed as a district judge and transferred to the Maribor District Court. Since the Judges of the District Court in Maribor also solve the entire criminal proceedings of the Lenart District Court, the Department of Human Resources Support would no longer be able to ensure a trial without undue delay and time-limits set. The staff deficit is no longer possible to be resolved by the allocation of judges from other departments of the District and District Court in Maribor. Twenty-four candidates or candidates applied for a specific invitation to tender, with three withdrawing their candidacy during the procedure. As usual, the Council of Justice conducted the selection procedure in three successive stages, in which it gradually eliminated candidates. In the first stage, he checked the fulfilment of the tendering conditions; in the second, he carried out an assessment of the eligibility of the candidates; and in the third stage, he interviewed the six most suitable candidates or candidates. Following the selection procedure, Mr Šömen found that the candidate Jan Šömen, in its entirety, best met the conditions for the seat of the court. Jan Šömen graduated from the Faculty of Law in Maribor in 2009 with an average rating of 8.91. The legal examination was carried out three years later with an average score of 8, 62. In 2017 he mastered at the Faculty of Law in Maribor. In his previous career, he worked as a notary trainee as a trainee, a notary assistant, a lawyer candidate, a professional associate at the Koper District Court Department, and for the last five years he has been a professional associate at the State Attorney's Office in Maribor, namely the Economic Criminal Department. Due to the excellent knowledge of the criminal law field and its other features, the candidate has been given priority by the President of the Maribor District Court, and has also proved very well in his interview with the members of the Council of Justice. In view of this, the Council of Justice unanimously elected him and proposed him to the National Assembly for election as a judge of the District Court in Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-16-SDZ8-Redna-07.ana.u206	Your Honor, thank you for your explanation. The proposal dealt with the Commission's mandate as a mother's working body, which reported in writing to us. There are no applications for discussion. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Mr Jan Šömn is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This brings us to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that, pursuant to the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia, for a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, the members appointed by the Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia are appointed by Mrs Špela Vratčnik. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 43.2 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We are therefore moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the State Audit Commission. Mr Borut Smrdel, appointed by the National Assembly on 26 September 2012 as President of the State Audit Commission, forwarded a resignation statement to the National Assembly on 2 April 2019. On the basis of the above, a proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve Mr Borut Smrdel in the State Audit Commission. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of the Deputy Ombudsman. On 8 April 2019, Mr Tonček Dolčič proposed to the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 21, paragraph 1, and Article 22 of the Law on the Ombudsman of Human Rights, that he should be dismissed prematurely as Deputy Ombudsman for retirement. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Mr Tonček Dolčič as Deputy Ombudsman. I inform you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 21 of Article 22 of the Law on the Ombudsman, that draft decision will be adopted if at least two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 16 April 2019, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to the question by Dr Anjet Logar on European matters. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We turn to the following: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to Mr Aleksandr Reberšk's question on the construction of the 3rd development axis. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We turn to the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Miha Kordiš's question on privatisation or decommissioning of the public health system. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 46. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to Mr Željk Cigler's question on the financing and enforcement of decisions to direct children with special needs. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to the question of Mr Primož Sieter on the payment of parents' access to full service, which is carried out on the eAssistent platform. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to Mr Boris Doblekar's question on transport provision, where the safety of pupils is threatened by the presence of large beasts. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to the question of mags. Branca Grims in connection with the increase in the number of illegal migrants and the activities of NGOs in this regard. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra to Mrs Lidija Ivanuš's question on human resources issues. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, and Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Mr Ksenija Klampfer and Mr Aleš Šabedr's Minister of Health on Mr Primož Siter's question on the question of reimbursement for basic services in nursing homes. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to the question of Mr Franz Breznik's question on the Law on apprenticeship. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Rudi Medved's reply to Mr Jani Ivanuš's question on the accessibility of public servants. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zvonko Černač's reply to Mr Zvonko Lipica, Minister for Economic Development and Technology. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the issue of contamination of drinking water with atrazine and other pesticides, nitrates and heavy metals in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's question on the situation in the Slovenian Army. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion of Dr Iztok Purič to the question of Mr Tomaž Lisco's delegation regarding the drawing up of European funds. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, the family of social affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question regarding invalidity pensions. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the last, this is 18th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Mr Alenke Bratušek asked Mr Tomaž Lisca about the energy concept of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Also: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek to Mr Miha Kordišek's question about the planned expansion of the Ljubljana bypass. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this agenda item and also the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice day ahead!
