ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: John Janša, Mag. Bojana Muršić from 12 noon onwards, Matjaž Han from 17:00 on, Violeta Tomić, Miha Kordiš from 15.30 on, Just Bevk to 12 noon, Robert Pavšič from 11.00 to 11.30, mag. Matthew Tonin from 12 a.m., Ljudmila Novak from 13 a.m. on, Iva Dimic from 12.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m., Jožef Horvat, Franz Breznik, Jernej Vrtovec from 19 h.m. and I will also be absent from 18 h.m. on. I invited a representative of the Council of State to the 2nd item of the agenda and representatives of the Government. I welcome all those present once again! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 18 March 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Dear Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. First of all, we turn to the Government's Notice of the resignation of Mr Sam Fakin as Minister of Health. By letter dated 13 March 2019, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec informed me that Mr Sam Fakin had resigned from his post as Minister of Health. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Mr Sam Fakin has ceased to serve as Minister of Health. On 19 March 2019, the President of the Government also informed me, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that he would be acting on his own until the appointment of the new Minister as Minister of Health. I thank Mr Sam Fakin for his cooperation and I want everything good in the future. This brings us, honourable Members and Members, to the Government's Notice of the resignation of Mr Juret Lebna from the role of Minister for Environment and Space. By letter of 13 March 2019, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec informed me that Mr Jure Leben had resigned from his post as Minister for Environment and Space. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Mr Juret Lebnu has ceased to serve as Minister for Environment and Space. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Jure Leben shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. I thank Mr Juret Lebne, too, and I wish him well in his further work. With this, honourable Members, we turn to the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Committee on Justice. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of a proposal from the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats of 12 March 2019. I note that the panellists are not present and we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to dismiss President Jernej Vrtovec in the Committee on Justice and to appoint Mrs Iva Dimic as President. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Mrs. Ivy Dimic, congratulations. You got all the votes, including yours. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. This is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. At its 3rd extraordinary meeting on 13 March 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, prior to its announcement, decide again on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Milan Ozimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Dear Members and honourable Members, history teaches us through the lessons of repetition, and this also happens to us in the case of the veto of the State Council on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that you have on your parliamentary benches and not the first probably not the last veto of this kind. As long as we don't just listen to each other, we will also hear from each other, the chronic problems and problems that ZIPRS has brought to local communities will be solved by the non-systemic and acute post-festum and the underlying problem will remain. The Council of State proposes to the National Assembly that, after careful consideration today, it rejects the ZIPRS-B Amendment for the years 2020–2018 and 2020–2019 and instructs the Government to prepare a new law and regulates the amount of the average amount belonging to the municipality in accordance with the Community Financing Act, taking into account also the obligations under the Government’s agreement with the public sector unions. At this point, the key specific financial liabilities for higher wages and other public sector labour costs were not known at the time of the agreement on the average amount of the Association of Municipalities. The State Council points out that it is right to improve the salaries of public sector employees, but an increase in the average amount at the end of December 2018 in many municipalities will not cover the costs of higher salaries of employees in kindergartens, rather higher wage costs in all public institutions which are bound by municipal budgets. While the government claims that the national budget is being rebalanced for this year, the data speak in the opposite direction or at least at the level of the municipalities. Without a return on average, municipalities will be forced to provide funds for additional expenditure incurred from other own resources, including investment sources of financing, or to continue to allocate development funds to finance legal tasks. And most importantly, the family budgets of the most vulnerable groups of citizens will be additionally burdened. There is no justification for the increase in the price of preschool education programmes in the municipalities, as this is a reflection of the rise in wages which are an integral part of the price of kindergarten calculated according to the prescribed methodology. A similar situation is in the case of assistance at home or in nursing homes where the costs of higher public sector salaries are financially burdened by both service users and municipalities. Nor does it argue that the higher labour costs due to the agreement with the social partners should be neutralized by reducing labour costs due to the measures taken with the last amendment of the law. The successful use of European funds at the level of the municipalities is also at risk. The State Council draws attention to the alarming investment situation. Although the municipalities are in great need of the construction of kindergartens and primary schools, they do not have their own resources for these purposes, and the department of the construction of such buildings has ceased to co-finance since 2011. These are not the only neglected but urgently needed investment areas. Therefore, the conclusion that the budget for the level of municipalities is not development-oriented is certainly the one that we are referring to. Your Honor! The state council can't have a state in check, nor can it make a fool out of the legislative process. Even less so, the State Council wants it. Political responsibility lies with you, honourable Members, you are the one who, by pressing the push button for or against, will determine how very developmental our country will be in 2019 and who it will be most burdensome to do so. The Council of State has warned enough time for the Government to reconsider and resolve the situation without any more fatal consequences, otherwise, the citizens will ultimately be hostages of unscrupulous political moves, which could only be dealt with by one additional article to the ZIPRS novel. Where there is a will, there is a way. Our objective is clear and we want the Government to hear these reasoned warnings and take them into account in a timely manner, as the consequences will be significantly more costly for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Your Honor, thank you for your position. The competent parent body is the Committee on Finance. Mr. Robert Polnar, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 10th urgent meeting on 15 March this year, the Committee of Finance considered as a parent working body the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Government. As a material for the meeting, the Committee received a request from the State Council, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion from the Government. Representatives and representatives of the Council of State, the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the State Council drew attention to the key concerns which led the State Council to request that the National Assembly decide again on the law. The basic reason for submitting the request is the lack of funds for the functioning of the municipalities and the smooth implementation of their urgent tasks. He explained that raising the average, in line with the agreement reached last year, would not be sufficient to cover the costs incurred by the agreement with the unions on wage increases. He stressed that the current arrangement did not take into account the differences between individual congregations and their needs. It was expected that these warnings would allow for an in-depth resolution of the problem. The Minister of Finance presented the Government's opinion on the allegations resulting from the request of the State Council and rejected them as unfounded or premature. The law only regulates the content relating to the technical implementation of the balance of the state budget. Regarding the average figures, he said that the average level negotiations last year had already taken into account the possibility of an agreement with the unions on wage increases. To this end, an agreement on the level of the average shall contain a provision allowing control of the effects of an agreement with trade unions from the point of view of the municipalities. He stressed that it would be advisable to wait for the results and then take appropriate action if necessary. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly explained that the request had not been made in connection with the provisions of the law which was the subject of the requirement under consideration and the Legislative and Legal Service had therefore not been identified until the request was made. In the debate, MEPs and Members drew attention to the formal shortcomings of the requirement, as the reasons for its submission were not based on the provisions of the law in question. Some members stressed the need for a comprehensive consideration of local community issues. Individual congregations facing difficulties could also rationalize their business, while raising the cost of wages should not cause them so much trouble. The debate raised the issue of the principles of the financing of local self-government and its tasks under the request of the Council of State. Particular attention should be paid in particular to the principle of compliance of financial resources with the powers requiring proportionality between the available resources available to local communities and the legal obligations of those bodies. Local communities need to be provided with adequate funding for development tasks, and a discussion will also be needed on the appropriate spending mechanism and its capacity to provide adequate funding for the constitutional and legal tasks of municipalities and their investments. The representative of the Council of State explained some of the concerns expressed in the debate. He pointed out in particular that the financing of local self-government was a long-standing and recurring issue to be pointed out. He stressed that most municipalities with rare and inevitable exceptions behave rationally. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members, with ten votes against and four votes against: Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. I give my word to Minister Andre Bertontzl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u6	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to ZIPRS 2018-2019, Novela-B, governs only the content related to the technical implementation of the country's budget balance. The amount of the average shall not be fixed in that Act as it was already laid down in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in the month of December of the previous year, and was established in accordance with the agreed and signed agreement on the average amount for 2019 between the Government and the representative municipal associations. In addition, it was explicitly agreed that after six months, the impact of an agreement with the public sector unions on the raising of public sector employees' salaries will be reviewed at the expense of municipalities and that the proposals of the specific working group to amend legislation that will reduce the costs of municipalities will be reviewed and that solutions will be sought for investment funds in order to increase flexibility, purpose and simplification of the route and to reduce the transitional period and then agree on further measures. So after six months. With regard to the apparent need for development funds to be allocated to the municipalities for financing legal obligations and not for development, just for comparison – in the country's budget of approximately €10 billion, development funds are set at around 10%, and the resources for the development of municipal budgets valued at about €2 billion are set at around 30%. The explanation of the financial implications of the agreement with the public sector trade unions, the measures taken to reduce labour costs, the strict fulfilment of all government commitments resulting from an agreement of the average for 2019, all of which indicate that the Government is seeking to maintain a partnership with the municipalities while ensuring an adequate level of funding for tasks transferred to the municipalities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes that Members and Members re-support Amendment B of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your introduction. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have the first word, Mr Luka Mesec, on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We supported the budget and budget documents in Levica because it brings more positive innovations to Slovenia's political space. With this budget and the ZIPRS accompanying it, all citizens have paid for the mistakes of businesses and banks that have been saved by the State and in particular the weakest. At the same time, several more funds are provided in the new budget to harmonise pensions, raise public sector salaries and increase labour inspectors, end the freezing of social transfers for individuals and households and guarantee an increase in health budgets. This is all good news, which does not mean that the budgets or ZIPRS are complete. We also expressed several criticisms in Levica. We need more money on science, culture. We also give the State Council the right to make more money for the municipalities, for the implementation of their legal obligations and for the infrastructure projects there. At this point, we give them the right one. On the other hand, there is an entirely unreasonable concern expressed by the State Council regarding the position of the Fiscal Council. It's the opposite, for the first time, of itself. In fact, at the same time he wants more money for the municipalities, i.e. the larger budget, on the other hand, he says that the warnings of the Fiscal Council should be taken into account, so a smaller budget would be needed. It must decide whether to make a larger or smaller budget. At the same time, this concern of the Fiscal Council goes hand in hand with the recent findings of economists, particularly since the crisis. The fiscal world builds on the theory of the production gap, which the academic space has virtually singled out in the last eight years as inappropriate. I'll give you two cases. Marcellina and Musso, the economists who compared a series of production gaps to the OECD, found that in 2011 these estimates were very unstable, that they were changing over time, and therefore concluded that the application of the production gap concept, which is built by the Fiscal Council and also by our State Council, was useless and dangerous. Errors in these forecasts may also cost an individual member to slip into recession because of wrong policies or the pressure to save, which eventually took place in Slovenia during the crisis in 2011 and 2012. The warnings of the Fiscal Council are therefore politically motivated and have no professional credibility, which is also pointed out by many domestic economists, including Bogomir Kovac, Jože P. Damian and so on. At this point, we completely reject the State Council. Under the line, in Levica we will oppose the veto on ZIPRS and thereby give support to the budget and budget documents. As I said at first reading, this is considered confidential to the government. Trustee, for the first time, because in the budget many things have been done right, and for the second time, because we believe that even in 2019 we will improve those things that we have not yet taken care of. Some I have already mentioned, others are defined in the agreement signed today and predicts that we will finally undertake projects that have been in place in this country for many years or even decades, at the head of housing policy, which has been pushed completely into individual responsibility in Slovenia. So if you want an apartment, take a loan, pay the rent, or make a wardrobe with your parents. However, we do not have a social policy to provide some public housing fund, as the countries we like to follow – Austria and Germany do. I hope this year, we have a commitment to take the first steps to make this happen in Slovenia. We have a commitment to abolish supplementary health insurance and more than ten million, which stays in private insurance every year, redirected to health care to eliminate waiting lines, skipped student services that take over 10 million a year commission, and we will put that money into the scholarship fund and so on. We oppose the veto and continue, as we said before the elections, the path to prosperity for all, not just for a handful.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u9	Thank you for your position. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Today we are addressing the veto on the Budget Implementation Act. This is a law on which the implementation of the newly adopted budget balance for 2019, which has recently been adopted by the majority of the Member States, is also directly dependent. At the time of the adoption of the budget rebalancing for 2019, the Fiscal Council expressed the view that the expansion and pro-cyclical fiscal policy in the draft state budget rebalancing is inadequate. According to the Fiscal Council, the level of expenditure as set out by the Government is set against the law. The Fiscal Council estimates that the rules of the Fiscal Rule Law would be respected only if the spending of the state were reduced by EUR 270 million in the 2019 budget. Since fiscal rule is part of the Slovenian Constitution, respect for fiscal rule is also an issue of respect for the Slovenian Constitution and respect for the rule of law. In determining the expenditure of the budget that is being implemented by the law that we are deciding today, the economic issue is also a matter of fundamental legal culture. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance estimates that variables should be different for the calculation of maximum expenditure. Debates were also about the correctness of the methodology to take account of different methodologies. Finding out whether the budget is inconsistent with the Constitution will show up in time when the budget will be implemented and economic logic will take place in reality. In New Slovenia, however, we are already predicting that we will closely monitor this event. We will carefully monitor whether, at the end of the account, it will be demonstrated whether the Ministry of Finance or the Fiscal Council was right or whether the budget balance for 2019 was in line with the fiscal rule and also with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are already saying that if the budget is unconstitutional for 2019, we will use the appropriate political and legal tools to ensure respect for the rule of law. Politics is the first to respect laws that are bound to respect the Constitution and to stand up for respect for the rule of law. However, because according to the Fiscal Council's assessment the budget – and we also believe in New Slovenia – is not in accordance with the law and does not comply with the Constitution of the required conditions, in Nova Slovenija we will also vote against the budget, i.e. against the law that speaks of the implementation of budgets, to which, clearly, the 2019 budget is also bound. We support the veto of the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Andrej Reich, on behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SAB Group two weeks ago, we made clear our opinion on ZIPRS, which I can only repeat here. ZIPRS is considered to be good and, finally, to be exactly what it should be – technical. For a long time, it seems to us that it meets its definition and consists of only the urgent changes relevant to the smooth implementation of the budget. In the past, we have repeatedly pointed out that things are regulated in ZIPRS that do not, in principle, belong there. We were most disturbed by the regulation of the annual allowance, which, in our view, should be regulated by the system law. On this occasion, the proposal, which reduces the permissible level of indebtedness, sets out the extent of the country's permissible indebtedness and the guarantee of direct users and increases the percentage of the permissible overrun of the size of the pooled staffing plan, we have no comments. If I touch today's stumbling block, the average, I would like to point out that in the SAB we are aware of the potential problems of the assigned height and we are not taking it lightly or even underestimating it. We welcomed the higher average set in the December news of ZIPRS last year, and we warned that this would certainly not solve all the problems faced by the congregation. However, as regards today's treatment, two issues arise in particular, pointing at least a certain degree of illogicality of the veto tabled. The first is an agreement on the average for 2019 signed last November and regulated in the budget balance and not in the ZIPRS. From the four points that form an agreement, it is clear and clear that the government does not run from responsibility and is aware of the possible problem of average height. The key points of the agreement, if briefly summarised, include: the establishment of a special working body which, within six months, has to draft a proposal to amend the legislation with which the costs will be reduced to the municipalities; it also undertakes to verify after six months the impact of the agreement with the public sector unions on the salaries of public sector employees on the costs of municipalities, which will then be negotiated on the basis of further measures. Therefore, for six months, the Government should have the average agreed to and also to act in order to examine the appropriateness of the agreed average. This seemed reasonable and timely in November both to the President of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and to the Presidents of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. Then what veto and at the request of what interested group of local interests, as vetoed by the State Council, was the veto ever vetoed? Even more so, the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has best summarised that the request for re-decision has not been submitted in relation to the legal provisions which form part of the ZIPRS novelty has not been defined until the request has been made. The Council of State has therefore vetoed the ZIPRS because of the size of the averages, although it does not mention the latest novels, which we are re-declaring today, even with a letter. Even though the State Council’s arguments can be acknowledged by a certain weight, the path chosen cannot solve these problems. In the SAB Group, the Ministry is expected to actually evaluate the whole matter and verify the effects of the arrangements and, in the event of a finding of inadequacy or shortcomings, to upgrade the Ministry with additional measures that will relieve the municipalities of additional costs. But this, once again, has nothing to do with ZIPS as such. However, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Implementation Act will be unanimously supported by the Members of the SAB Group, as in the previous vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u13	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The implementation of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is an urgent and direct condition for the implementation of the national budget balance adopted on 6 March this year. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2018 and 2019, so-called ZIPRS 1819-B, sets out the arrangements for the execution of the purchases of the basic funds of the direct users of the budget, the permitted extent of the country's indebtedness for 2019, the permitted amount of the borrowing and issuance of the guarantees of the indirect users of the budget, the number of employees in the personnel plans of the direct users of the budget and the use of budgetary reserve funds for the purpose of the Presidency of the Council of the EU. No article on legal amendments and additions refers to the financing of local self-government and the level of the average, which is the basis of the State Council's decision-making requirement. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that local self-government is an extremely important state subsystem. We also have extensive functional knowledge and experience on these matters, as we performed mayoral and sub-district functions in various Slovenian municipalities. We are convinced that the following assumptions must be taken into account when changing the funding system for municipal tasks. The financial system must ensure the efficiency of the municipalities in the performance of their tasks, while ensuring sufficient diversity and content of the relevant resources. The Community funding system should ensure equal access to public goods for citizens. The financing of the development tasks of municipalities, and of those which prove to be investment expenditure and investment transfers of municipal budgets, must be an integral part of the regulated funding system. The fundamental objective to be achieved is to respect the principle of compliance of financial resources with competences. This means that all available resources from local communities must be in proportion to the powers and tasks laid down in the legislation. The political will to resolve this decade of unresolved issues exists. A dialogue began between the Government and the representatives of the municipalities. We hope that the outcome of this dialogue will be the result of cooperation, not authoritarianism. Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of State has been introduced into the Slovenian parliamentary regime as an adjustment to the general representation. It is intended to express a social structure which cannot be taken into account in the general representation. However, the theoretical justification for correcting the general representation cannot take into account neither the principle of the quality of representation nor the actual structure of the company. The state councillors and councillors are therefore supposed to present corrections in both directions, but in any case only corrective ones. It's a fixer, an enhancer, a buffer, and in no way a decision-maker. Not taking this into account would mean blocking your eyes against reality. The reality is certainly to be taken into account. Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will vote in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble, Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u16	Nice hello to you all! The Slovenian national party will give the government an opportunity to prove that the candy they shared before time was a good thing. If not, the matter will be broken by the end of 2018, and no later than 2019, when we adopt a new budget balance. However, even if all government commitments are fulfilled, the question is how it will go together, because we finally know that the increase in revenue in the budget is an assessment, while the increase in expenditure is certainty. The fact that the Slovenian National Party today votes in favour does not mean that we generally support the government or that we will not look down on it. That's even more. After all, there are many things that are not worked out and where the government itself does not know what will happen and what it wants. After all, almost 3 billion and a half euros from the state budget are going as budget users' transactions abroad, and no one knows where they're going, why they're going or how they're going. Migrants who are furrowed from the front and from behind will also strike the country. Don't worry. But let them hit it, maybe the Slovenian voters have to shave to see what's wrong with this country, because it's different from day to day that some crocodiles are crying, and there are no real benefits. In the Slovenian National Party, we are not in favour of the principle of the worse for the government, the worse for us. It is essential to us the welfare of life in our country and therefore we think and are convinced that the adoption of this document is the best move for Slovenia at this time. That's our belief. Even after yesterday's agreement and discussion with the representatives of the Fiscal Council, we came to this thought. There's something else. The Slovenian government is mostly under the command of the Left, which is not left or right, but is even higher than that balcony up there above all of us, and which determines what will happen here. I think it's high time that these Levis cut their wings at least enough to let themselves down from those heights here into the National Assembly. Only the voices of the Slovenian National Party, which show that we are thinking clearly, not by force, but by thinking clearly, can be corrective in all things. There is another danger if this matter is not accepted today. In Slovenia, then, partial collapse is only a matter of funding after twelve, which means a terrible blow for both local communities and a large part of the public sector. I don't think it makes sense for something like this to happen. In fact, this veto was prepared because of the question of municipal averages, but I think the congregations have made a deal with the government, depending on how the government will take this into account and how it will keep the arrangements. If not, they will have to renegotiate with the government. But I don't think this moment is right. Once again, we'll support this document, and then we'll see what happens next.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u17	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets, we also did not support it at the regular meeting of the National Assembly and we will not support it today. The Budget Implementation Act is a fundamental law that allows the implementation of the budget balance for 2019. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, prepared by the government of Marjan Sarca, is based on an unaltered policy that does not correspond to the call for reforms. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Slovenia needs reforms mainly in the area of pensions and health. And these reforms are urgently needed. For more than €10 billion, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, the Slovenian Democratic Party believes that the economy is the most deserving. The economy is the one that has provided record revenue to the budget. Instead of rewarding the economy in the balance sheet of the 2019 budget, we do not actually see any economic burdens, but we can expect the economy to be further burdened. The European Commission has warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure compliance with the budgets with the rules. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not complied with these recommendations and proposals of the European Commission. The Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia also pointed out a permanent increase in expenditure. The Fiscal Council is convinced that the proposal for a rebalancing of the 2019 budget is inconsistent with the legislation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the budget balance for 2019 is also not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet drawn up the 2020 budget balance to date, which undoubtedly indicates that it cannot be determined whether public finances are sustainable in the medium term. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such a budget balance for 2019 prepared by the government of Marjan Šarca is not the one to ensure the further development of Slovenia. This is where the economy suffers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that one of the biggest losers of the 2019 budget is sport. The sport government allocates only 0.2% of the budget itself and, if it raises funds to all other factors within the budget, sport is the one whose funds are falling. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we mainly lack systemic resources, not so much for top sports, but especially funding and training for young people who are just entering the top sport. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or Members and Members of the Coalition have not accepted any amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and not one amendment proposed by the opposition to the 2019 budget rebalancing. This shows that the policy of this government will not change compared to that of the previous governments. We will not support the implementation of the budget in the SDS Group today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Brane Golubović on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u20	Dear Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues – very nice greeting! In the beginning, let me make it very clear that in LMŠ we are aware of the importance of municipalities for the development of our country. To this end, the Government has also negotiated with representatives of three associations of municipalities with a clear objective of reaching an agreement on the financing of municipalities and on further cooperation. In November, after several weeks of negotiations, an agreement was concluded with the municipalities. The average amount rose by 22 euros compared to 2018 and 573.50 euros per capita. Once again, the government, together with the three associations of the congregations, has determined the height of the average. It wasn't a unilateral move by the government, it was an agreed matter. It is clear from the debate in the State Council that when the municipalities signed an agreement with the Government, they did not know what would be the effect of raising salaries in the public sector on the costs of the operation of municipalities. They are not in compliance with this indication. During the weeks of negotiations, negotiators already knew about the demands of public sector unions and also about the indicative level of the increase in wage funds. The trade unions' demands were already known at the time of the June 2018 elections and did not significantly change during the negotiations between the Government and the associations of the municipalities, it is said, in October and November and even January 2019, when the agreement with the trade unions was also signed. It is precisely because of the knowledge that wage increases in the public sector, despite the higher average impact on the functioning of municipalities, that an analysis of the impact of wage increases in the public sector on the costs of municipalities should be carried out after the six-month period and measures should be taken if these measures prove necessary. However, not only because the negotiators were aware that the municipalities were carrying out a large number of tasks transferred to them by law and for which in some cases they did not receive sufficient State resources, they agreed to set up a mixed working group. The working group, with representatives of the Government and the municipalities, is tasked with drafting amendments and supplementing legislation to reduce the costs of municipalities within six months. This working group is working and preparing measures that we expect to be known in May. So the dialogue with the congregation associations has been and is still ongoing, so we do not understand the veto that the Council of State has tabled. On the basis of this, the Act on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 will be reaffirmed in the List of Marjan Šarca. However, as the Council of State has also expressed concern in its report that expenditure or expenditure in the budget balance is too high, once again, that the budget balance is good, is developmental and social, has an excess of EUR 200 million, reduces the country's debt and ensures the medium-term balance of public finances. At the same time, the balance of the budget provides more resources for the development of the economy and also through significantly higher resources for science, research and development of more resources for public infrastructure projects and more resources for education, environment, culture, health, social security. All of this brings added value and higher quality of living to all citizens and citizens or residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u21	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u22	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Minister of Finance, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Two weeks ago, when we first decided on the amendments and additions to the Budget Implementation Act, we reminded the Social Democrats that this is an integral part of the budget. Without it, implementation of the budget is virtually impossible and its provisions provide a basis for the level and manner of payment of an important part of the funds. It is expected that today, at the request of the Council of State, we must reconsider this important document. At the time of their adoption, the budget and the accompanying law were described by many as being optimal in the given circumstances. Of course, there is something that can be read out to them, as well as to any budgetary document in history and even in the future. The Council of State considers that this time, too, it is inadequate to finance the mandatory tasks of the municipalities and therefore requires that we decide on this law again. The average represents a calculation by which the State of municipalities is to cover the performance of the tasks conferred on them by legislation. The arrangements in force for the annual determination of the amount of this amount provide for negotiations between municipalities and the State. These negotiations have been successful this year, and the state and municipalities have reached agreement on the average level, and yet there remains a strong claim by the municipalities that the State is inadequately and insufficiently funding their mandatory tasks and thus that public service costs at the level of the municipalities must be borne by the population of the municipalities. This is justified by the fact that other agreements have been adopted, particularly with public servants who increase the volume of funds for their hard-earned salaries. As the increase in obligations to public servants, such as those in kindergartens and nursing homes, burdens the municipalities, they are now taking advantage of the opportunity to warn that, despite the increase in the average, they still have to provide a certain part of the funds themselves or allow an increase in the prices of services for their citizens. In the broader picture of public finances, which we must have before our eyes when adopting the budget, we will not speak this time. Instead, when re-decision is taken, we must reiterate that the system of financing local self-government is indeed not appropriate and that a number of opportunities have already been missed in the history of this country in order to properly regulate it. However, it is also a fact that the municipalities with the country have reached an agreement on the level of the average in the negotiations on this budget. That is why we need to cut the dilemma today by re-decision whether the shortcomings in the way the municipalities are financed are really so great that they should stop the whole budget implementation process, which would have happened if the law had not received support today. As we have already said two weeks ago, no system will ever be complete, even the state and not only the municipalities must look for their internal reserves in their treasury if they want to set up and make an optimal budget. Any consumer of budgetary resources, including at municipal level, must smartly allocate the funds available to him. He has to make decisions and stand behind them. In some congregations, they will thus cover the increased costs of the workers’ salaries, while in others they have decided to pass these costs on to the citizens. In the end, action is a matter of priority. In some places they will put asphalt and circulars first, while elsewhere they will adjust their expenses. These decisions at the municipal level mean an important difference for the population, so no one can take any responsibility for the decisions taken. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will also support in re-decision the proposal of this law, which allows the implementation of the budget and which, after a long decade, brings back to people at least something that has been taken away from them in the past. We believe that the debate on the improved funding model for municipalities is open and that today's decision does not represent its end. We must once again call for this debate to be brought to its conclusion, not only when we are adopting a budget in the National Dent. This question is too important for people to open only symbolically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mateja Udovč, you have the utmost honour to have your last one on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u24	Your Honor! Today we are again considering the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, which we have recently adopted. It was voted by the State Council by the procrastination veto. In the Modern Centre Party, we point out that the veto is unreasonable, illegal, unnecessary and reckless. It is estimated that it is unreasonable to vote on a veto which does not regulate the comments addressed at all. For the novelty governs only the content relating to the technical implementation of the budget balance. The average amount to which the Council of State refers has already been established by the previous amendment of the law adopted by the National Assembly on 13 December 2018. Under the agreement, the National Assembly increased the average by €32.5 million. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also points out that the State Council’s observations refer to the provisions of Article 54 of the Law, which are not covered by this amendment at all. Should the National Assembly take account of the proposed amendments, it would act unlawfully. In this regard, we would also like to point out that the State Council, regardless of its representative of local interests, does not play any institutional role in the negotiations and conclusion of the agreement on averages. The President of the Council of State claims that the average is not the only reason for veto, for the State Council is critical to the entire balance. In this regard, we would like to point out that the Council of State does not have the power to place a procrastination veto on the budget, as confirmed by the Constitutional Court in 1997. Nevertheless, the Council of State has found a perimeter for the decision of the Constitutional Court to apply the Institute of Deferred Vet to the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the Council of State does not have the constitutional power to interfere with the budget, so we propose that the amendment of the Public Finance Act should re-examine what should be adopted in accordance with Article 87 of the Constitution, in the form of a law and in the act of the budget, in order to prevent this legal but illegal circulation for us. We also warn that veto is unnecessary. For the Council of State has adopted a veto two days after the Minister of Public Administration at the Assembly of the Congregations has promised that they will find a formula with them to determine the average amount, and thus annual negotiations will no longer be necessary. A working group was also set up to reduce the costs of municipalities, which examined the potential savings of municipalities in the fields of education, science and sport, for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities and for the environment and space. According to the group, the savings could be around EUR 30 million. The working group will close this summer. In the Modern Centre Party, we also point out that it is vetoed and unconsistent with the policy that the Council of State has led in its previous mandate. If the new ZIPRS were not voted on, as the Prime Minister has already pointed out, his resignation would result in the collapse of the government and probably early elections. In this case, the Council of State and the representative associations of municipalities in the Government would no longer have an interlocutor with full powers to change the calculation of the averages and savings of municipalities. In this case, the state would be in a development collapse, as the current state budget would be implemented, the situation would deteriorate for municipalities, public servants, pensioners, large families, students receiving state scholarships and the socially weak ones. With this veto, the Council of State has done itself a bear service to continue discussions with the National Assembly on its greater involvement in the legislative process. It's the so-called Fourth Reading Institute. In the previous mandate, the Commission, acting on a proposal from the SMC, maintained its last initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Veto shows, however, that the Council of State does not consider the continuation of its policy under the previous mandate to strengthen its role in the legislative process due to the defence of partial interests. We will once again support the proposal of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly for one second only in order to welcome Members and Members of the Austrian Parliament on the balcony, who are today as a group of friends visiting the Slovenian National Assembly. Nicely greeted! In doing so, we continue to note that you have presented your views and are moving on to a decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. In doing so, honourable Members, I would like to point out that in the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Dear Members, would anyone like to explain their position? No, no, no. Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. An explanation of the voice? I'll read the conclusion one more time. We are re-declaring the law, and the majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote for the adoption of that law. [[Advertising from the hall]] I'm waiting for you. There's nothing to be afraid of. But if you want a little break for the debate, we can agree on that too, no problem. [[advertising in the hall]] Do you want to vote? Great! Dear Members, we vote. [[advertising in the hall]] Mr Marko Bandelli notes that the system did not work. The result was written in favour of 57 votes against 26 members and 83 members present. I take it that there is no need for us to vote again. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. With this, honourable Members, I conclude, in the light of Mr Bandelli's mild protest, this item on the agenda. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the regulation of certain questions [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'm taking a five-minute vacation. We'll continue at 12.10. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 12.06 and resumed at 12.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u26	Dear Members, we are moving on to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the regulation of certain questions raised in the case of an exit agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Mr Tiln Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u27	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members and others! Although the UK's exit from the European Union is only a few days from now, this is still scheduled for next Friday, there is nothing more clear about how this will actually happen, so in view of the possible extension of this deadline, it is not clear whether this exit will be agreed or not. For this reason, the Government has decided to prepare, we can call it, a contingency plan, in stock, in order that one of the scenarios may happen in a predictable way if this happens, and this is the case for the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union without an agreement. This is a future uncertain fact, but the core of this law is certainly to protect the interests and rights of Slovenian citizens and, of course, indirectly of others. This is a horizontal law, and we have been involved in this by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as well as by the Ministry of the Interior. It's kind of, like, a horizontal law, following the example that some of you have already met in this house. This so-called Zuviras, which dealt with arbitration, so that we applied a comparable approach. It's a very tight hand, and this unpredictability has escalated mainly over the last few months. As a result, you can see that the law is an emergency. Similarly, at the level of the European Union, where certain regulations, one, I think, have been adopted just today or yesterday, which also touches on this area and somehow regulates some of the unpredictable consequences that such an exit could have brought, under severe time constraints with us, at the level of the European Union as in other Member States. The European Commission and the European Council, which have said in a way that citizens must not pay the exit price, have certainly been guided by this law, so it is necessary, in particular, for the citizens of the United Kingdom who already reside legally in the Member States of the European Union on the day of their departure to take a generous approach to the rights of the citizens of the United Kingdom who already reside in their territory. As we say, of course, we have also taken into account the rights of our citizens, not just the United Kingdom. From here on out, as far as major solutions are concerned, the law goes into several areas. The first issue under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior is, in particular, the area of residence or legal residence, from here on there are areas which are somehow within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, certain issues relating to the preservation and enforcement of social security rights, which are regulated at EU level by the rules governing the coordination of social security systems. This is the so-called Regulation 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems as well as some others. From here on, access to the labour market, recognition of professional qualifications, the right to family benefits and scholarships, and also, for example, from the Ministry of Education: education, training and research and development activities. This solution is temporary. The main part of these solutions is applicable until the end of 2020. Why is it temporary? As we estimate that, for the first time, there will be more knowledge of how this output will happen, secondly, of how a consensus and agreement with the United Kingdom on how to deal with these matters will be reached at European Union level. But of course, the other options are also open, one of them is, say, bilateral regulation, but it would take more than a year, but it's also on the table, but because we don't know what's going to happen, it makes sense to solve it. As far as reciprocity is concerned, this is required, not in all the provisions, but in those where it makes sense. We guarantee the rights, however much as they have already promised, on the part of the United Kingdom, they will guarantee these rights to our citizens. Otherwise, of course, we will not guarantee these rights. A number of amendments have been adopted on the Committee, with which the text has been aligned with those in the main, as foreseen by the Legislative and Legal Service, so that on this occasion I would also like to thank both the Legislative and Legal Service and the Members for a good debate, for adjustments to the law. However, for further clarification, I have also made available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u28	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mr. Vojko Starović, as president of the mother's working body. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! At its 16th emergency meeting, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee considered the draft law on the regulation of certain issues in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without an exit agreement submitted by the Government to the Assembly with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a proposal for an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee was provided with the following material: a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and proposals for amendments to the Committee of Qualified Applicants. Representatives of the proposer and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments, of principle and also of specific nature. Among other things, it pointed to some uncertainties, uncertainties and indeterminities. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, proposals were prepared for amendments to the Committee by the coalition parliamentary groups. Representatives of the proposer presented the draft law, its purpose and objectives. The representatives of the ZPS presented a written opinion and, in the context of the general comments, drew attention to various issues or interventions in the various legal areas covered by the proposal for a law in the second, third and fourth chapters, resulting in some confusion. As regards the third chapter, the comments were largely taken into account. The representative of the ZPS only pointed out two things that were not addressed. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has drawn up and adopted its amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u30	Thank you for your introduction, Mr President. This brings us to the views of the parliamentary groups. Mrs Iva Dimic, please, the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u31	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! Today’s law could pass by us as just one of the technical laws that is quite complex and incomprehensible, but we must accept it so that people do not find themselves in a national situation. In New Slovenia, however, we want to make it clear that the message of this law is much broader and harder. The title of the law already shows why we have to deal with this law with a certain issue, due to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, domestically, due to brexit. The exit itself is a major shock for the European Union and each Member State. Today, however, we are faced with the most likely possibility that this exit will be without an agreement, which is already causing and will cause many problems mainly to people across Europe. Is there anything we can learn from this? Above all, to prevent similar delusions in the future. The European Union and, above all, its advantages, we have already become so accustomed in 15 years that it is only at this exit that we are aware of what we actually have. This means free border crossings, free access to the labour market, education and other services. Let's think about how much the common currency means to us. As is often the case in life, the British have also not been aware of all the benefits of membership in the European Union, as Europe and the world today can see what the consequences of the various anti-European demagogies, which are unfortunately emerging across Europe and are being strengthened. The British have, unfortunately, fallen for them, and now we are all facing negative consequences. It is our responsibility, however, to regulate legislation to protect the interests of Slovenian citizens in the European Union on the one hand and in the United Kingdom on the other. With regard to proposals for legal solutions in New Slovenia, we assume that the Ministry or Government is paying attention to the existence of the principle of reciprocity in the free access to education, to the labour market and to some of the social benefits that the bill provides for the citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u32	Thank you for your position, Madam Ambassador. Mr Vojko Starović on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Next time, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union due to an uncommitted agreement raises many questions. British Prime Minister May, however, will ask the European Union for a shorter and longer submission of brexit, and the British Parliament is expected to vote again for the third time on a separate agreement. So now the British do not know when and how they will leave the European Union. In fact, the European Union has been preparing for a period of time for the possibility of brexit without agreement. This requires particularly appropriate measures regarding the rights of citizens of both the United Kingdom and EU Member States. Even in Slovenia, we are preparing for an exit without an agreement that is becoming increasingly plausible. In addition to citizens residing permanently in the United Kingdom or Slovenia who are becoming foreigners from third countries of the world, the effects of the exit will be the most felt in the field of electrical, automotive, pharmaceutical, metal and wood industries. To what extent and when these consequences will be demonstrated in practice, however, depends on the form of the exit. It's a divorce, and it's never easy. In the SAB Group, we consider the worst case scenario to be an unagreed exit. In this case, both citizens and the economy will experience significantly more negative consequences. Since bilateral relations between the United Kingdom and each Member State will no longer be regulated at European level, each member of the link, including Slovenia, should negotiate his or her agreement. In doing so, we must be aware that Slovenia will certainly not be a priority for the United Kingdom. It is about establishing a new regime for the movement of citizens from Slovenia to the island and vice versa. The citizens of the United Kingdom in Slovenia should be provided with appropriate visas and, on the other hand, ensure the protection of the rights of their citizens now living in the United Kingdom. We have 722 citizens of the United Kingdom, and there are significantly more Slovenians on the other hand. It is estimated that because there are no accurate records, it is estimated at close to 5,000. And that's exactly what this present law rules, this law that we make in stock. It protects and preserves the rights of Slovenian citizens in the United Kingdom and the British in Slovenia. These include social and disability insurance rights, benefits, access to the labour market, cross-border service delivery, family benefits, scholarships, etc. The draft law provides for a transitional period of one year. However, the application of those rights also makes it possible after the transitional period has elapsed. The exit will undoubtedly not only affect British citizens, but also Slovenian citizens, so reciprocity is incorporated into the law. The provisions of this Act will apply only if the United Kingdom provides Slovenian citizens and their family members with a comparable treatment of the rights that the Republic of Slovenia provides to British citizens and their family members under this Act. Let me just add this to the end. We know that the current political situation in the United Kingdom is, we can say, crisis, uncertainty and complexity. It is therefore right to prepare ourselves for the worst possible scenario so that our Slovenians in Britain do not suffer all the harmful consequences that the exit without an agreement brings. In the SAB Group, we will support the law prepared by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u34	Mr. Ambassador, thank you for your position. Mr Yuri Lepo, Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On 23 June 2016, the United Kingdom voted in favour of the exit of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. Day D, when the European Union is represented by one member less, is rapidly approaching. However, it is still unclear how the exit will actually turn out. Maybe he won't. The fact is, soon this event will no longer be avoided. After two and a half years of indecisiveness and overplay and internal political accounting in the Kingdom on the one hand and uncertainty in the European Union itself, a final step has been taken in the development around brexit. The exit is scheduled for 29 March at midnight. Since then, there could be certain consequences for their citizens and citizens and, of course, for ours. To ensure that nationals of one country or another do not pay too high an exit price, in accordance with the European Commission's guidelines, national parliaments of all Member States shall speedily adopt national rules to mitigate the transition to a new regime of civil rights and obligations of one or more Member States, with a correspondingly long transitional period. The exit agreement has already provided for the maintenance of existing rights during the transitional period, from exit until the end of 2020. At that time, the agreement on transitional relations between countries should also be harmonised. The fact that we are currently ahead of us is that an exit without an agreement would seriously affect the lives of both our citizens and family members living in the UK as well as British citizens and their family members. In our parliamentary group, the Desus Group, we agree with the proposed text of the law because we advocate the principle that the situation of persons who have been granted a status as citizens of the European Union should not change or even deteriorate overnight. Such solutions, which relate to the residence of the citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members, are considered appropriate and meaningful. In particular, it is important for us to continue to ensure the social security of all these persons. This is the area of pension rights, unemployment insurance, parental protection and more. Rights shall be maintained and the same way of exercising these rights shall remain. It is also important that the Republic of Slovenia establish the principle of reciprocity in this regard, which means that those rights are recognised to the British if they too recognise the rights of our people. The labour market, as established under the European Treaty, remains open until the end of 2020. It's also up to 31. 12. 2020 shall ensure that family benefits and scholarships are received without delay to the citizens of the United Kingdom or to their family members. The text with amendments to the amended draft law, as assessed by Members Desus, includes all security guards so that not one or the other citizens will be deprived of anything they have enjoyed as citizens of the European Union so far, so we will support it in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for presenting your position, Mr Member. Mr Victory Jelinčič noble, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u37	The law that we have before us has brought about what only Mr Cerar can draw up. On 20 pages, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made comments on this, which seems to be due to Cerara's visit to the Foreign Minister of the United Kingdom, and I don't know what he had to promise him to get on the table literally that kind of crap. The law is a complete absurdity. And the law shall be adopted by means of an emergency procedure, in order to ensure that such laws can only be adopted in the interests of the security or defence of the State, or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters or to prevent the serious remedial effects on the functioning of the State. None of this is here. It seems that the government thought the British Parliament would decide to step down with the agreement, but this did not happen – the lower house of the British Parliament decided to leave without an agreement. As it appears, it is most likely that the English have a sufficiently unjustifiable and senseless migrant policy of Germany and also enough of these games, which are played mainly by Germany and France, which also hold the tutor's hand over the government and in particular the foreign ministry of the Republic of Slovenia. After the contract, the United Kingdom ceases to use all ratings and membership in the European Union on 30 March this year at 00.00, exactly at midnight. The European Commission and the European Council have given some guidance that citizens should not pay the exit price and that a generous approach should be taken to the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom who already reside in the territories of other countries. And this generosity of the German chancellor is nonsense. After all, what generosity must there be? Since then, the English will simply be foreigners, because these people have the right to vote in their country and they have voted in favour of the United Kingdom's exit at the referendum on 23 June 2016. That's what it says, the matter is solved and I don't know what we're supposed to be looking for here right now. The problem with this Slovenian government is that it has to do its best to ensure that Slovenian citizens in the United Kingdom are protected because our people did not vote for brexit, our people are in this situation. And I would like to know whether their status would be, it is said, with the status of Slovenian citizens in England, to deal with the English lower house of Parliament or perhaps even the upper house of Parliament. Once again we follow the same path, our government, of course, or Mr Cerar, that everyone else is important, only the Slovenes are not. It seems to me that since I am a Member this is always the same story, it is always necessary to please foreigners and never its own citizens. That's fucking sad. But if anyone wants to be generous, then let him do it by regulation, let the European Union do it by regulation. There's a whole bunch of nonsense in here. For example, stupidity is also about family members when you don't even know what it's supposed to be. But this means family members of all Pakistanis living in the United Kingdom, or how? We don't know. In addition: that the target group in Slovenia will be informed of the additions to the introduction by personal mail on the address in the Republic of Slovenia. It seems to me that it's just one piece of crap because FURS doesn't deliver personal mail anymore, but it just sends you an e-mail, and as soon as it's done, you get your punishment. And here we're going to be doing everything we can for the English, who are no longer members of our group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u38	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u39	Thank you so much for the word. Hello, everyone! We have before us a law on the regulation of certain issues in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without agreement. The draft law deals with the residence of UK citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, their social security rights, their access to the labour market, the right to family benefits and scholarships, education and training, research and development activities, recognition of professional qualifications and occasional provision of services in the case of regulated professions. The possibility of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union without an agreement to take place on 29 March 2019 has been known for more than one year. We believe that the conduct of the Government, which has so far not prepared appropriate proposals for action or legislative proposals, is completely irresponsible and unrealistic. The result of such irresponsible conduct by the Government is, of course, that the law governing this area was proposed in the legislative procedure only two weeks before the possible withdrawal. However, the National Assembly shall treat it and adopt it in the last days prior to the date which is so far foreseen as a day of withdrawal without an agreement. The result of this is, of course, a number of uncertainties and inadequate solutions, which, of course, was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which made a number of comments on practically every proposed article of the law. We believe that despite certain corrections, the law is still incomplete. In particular, it does not guarantee the protection of Slovenian interests or the interests of Slovenian citizens in the United Kingdom, which are about 5,000, unlike the citizens of the United Kingdom in Slovenia, who are only 100. The draft law does not regulate the situation for Slovenian citizens in the UK who, if there is an exit without an agreement, will remain in a significantly worse position than is now guaranteed by citizenship in the European Union. The Government's priority should be to take various measures in the first place to safeguard their rights and their benefits. The bill proposes that the principle of reciprocity – this is the same rights for the citizens of the United Kingdom as will be recognised for Slovenian citizens in the UK – be applied only to social security rights, not as a general principle to ensure that our citizens in the United Kingdom are treated in all areas in the same way as the citizens of the United Kingdom in Slovenia. Of course, we cannot agree with that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that this area needs to be regulated. However, the law before us today is actually incomplete and puts our citizens in a significantly worse position in the United Kingdom, so of course we cannot support it and we will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Ms. Nina Maurovich, Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarcas. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! The proposal for a law on the regulation of certain issues in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without an exit agreement is adopted in order to protect the rights of our citizens and citizens of the United Kingdom. This is a very uncertain fact, which is also difficult to regulate legally. Nevertheless, we must take into account all possible scenarios, including the fact that an exit without agreement really takes place and should be properly prepared. We have a law that regulates the areas of social security and the labour market. The political situation in the United Kingdom is currently very busy. The United Kingdom Parliament has not yet adopted an exit agreement from the European Union. The latest information from the island is to try to agree on a shorter decree, but the starting date is only ten days away. The European Commission has given guidance to the Member States in which it calls on Member States to adapt national legislation in such a way that citizens, both our own and the British, will not feel the consequences of the exit in the event that an agreement is not reached. The bill before us ensures the preservation of the rights of Slovenian citizens in Great Britain and the British in Slovenia. The draft law regulates the regulation of the status of resident and the rights of citizens and their family members in the field of social security and the labour market. Treatment of social security rights, such as compulsory, pension and disability insurance rights, unemployment insurance benefits and parental protection insurance benefits. It further regulates access to the labour market, education and research activities. In all the areas listed above, the law retains rights to this extent and does not strengthen the way these rights are exercised and is valid for a transitional period from the time of exit until 31 December 2020. Since the purpose of the law before us is to ensure the rights of both Slovenian citizens and citizens of Great Britain, the adoption of the proposed law is crucial. Nevertheless, it must be stressed that it is of utmost importance for us to grant rights to Slovenian citizens in the United Kingdom, and that we must also pay attention to the consistent respect of the principle of reciprocity in the British Isles during the period of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union. For all the reasons listed above, we will support this law in the letter of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your introduction. Mag. Marko Koprivc, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! The way of leaving the United Kingdom from the European Union has been employed by the political, professional and general public for some time. The growing possibility of an exit without an agreement requires us to arrange everything necessary to protect people's rights in this case. The purpose of this law is to regulate the situation of citizens and citizens of the United Kingdom who live and work in Slovenia. Their status has so far been aligned with the status of all other citizens and citizens of the European Union, who, of course, can live and work in all Member States. On leaving the United Kingdom, especially if it were a so-called non-agreed exit, these people of our country would be subject to the status of citizens of the so-called third countries and would thus cease or significantly limit their possibilities for further residence and work in the Republic of Slovenia. It is of course in the interest of Slovenia to maintain these relations and to ensure that, even in the event of a final exit, these persons are allowed to continue their life course with us. Similarly, the United Kingdom provides for our citizens and citizens who live and work there. The law before us thus provides technical and procedural solutions whereby citizens and citizens of Great Britain can regulate their future status and continue to live, work and study with us, even if there is a so-called brexit without agreement, which is regulated by this law by 2020. It also regulates the further involvement of these persons in social and other insurance. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has drawn up extensive comments on the law, with a view to improving legal certainty and addressing the uncertainties that might arise in the procedure. Following this opinion, amendments adopted by the mother's working body were also prepared by the committee yesterday. We believe that this law will properly regulate the status of citizens and citizens of the United Kingdom, who will remain members of our community after their country has left the European Union. We are confident that, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, the status of our citizens and citizens who have settled their lives in the United Kingdom will also be guaranteed in the same way. Social Democrats will support this bill, but at the same time we still hope and call for the issue of so-called brexit to be resolved in agreement and for the benefit of the people. We still believe that, even at the last moment, there will be a wise agreement that will preserve Europe's unity and perhaps ensure that the solutions to this law remain meaningless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Janja Slug, Group of the Modern Center Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u45	Just three years ago, the British's decision to leave the European Union was well shaken by the European Union and its Member States, especially the British and the British, although their wish to resign at certain times was so zealous that, as such, it even expressed itself at the referendum. The consequences are far-reaching and go beyond the borders of the European Union alone. The current situation is certainly not improving, the uncertainty is still alive and is only deepening before tomorrow's European Union summit. The question of why would we extend the withdrawal time if it is equally clear after the expiry that the United Kingdom does not want the only possible agreement is, according to our assessment, on-the-spot and attached to it. Regardless of all past and future developments, it is important for the National Assembly, as a legislator at this time, that we are adequately prepared or prepared for a solid brexit. In particular, because of the common principle that the consequences and burden of exit must not be borne by the citizens and citizens of the United Kingdom and our country. This, however, will be difficult to avoid, but these negative impacts need to be minimised as much as possible and for a transitional period the status and position of the people will need to be regulated when they are in situations that affect their daily lives. And that is exactly what we are doing with the proposal of the law before us today, in the field of the regulation of residence permits, in the field of social rights and in certain other areas, such as access to the labour market, the right to family benefits and scholarships, education, training and the conduct of research and development activities and procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications. The draft law introduces an important principle of equal treatment for cities, which stipulates that the provisions of the Social Security Rights Act will apply only if the United Kingdom provides the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, their family members and survivors with equal treatment in respect of individual rights as our country will provide to the British and the British who reside with us. This, however, agrees with generosity, but at the same time clearly protects our citizens and citizens, and so do we. In the SMC Group, we express our expectation that, regardless of all the brexit, it will not end completely headlessly. But there is hope for it, it will be known soon. Regardless of everything with the bill that we are adopting today and in the SMC Group we are going to undermine, we are trying to provide more sense and more predictability for people. It is important that the European Union remains without the United Kingdom and is strengthened as a place of rule of law, sustainable development, respect for human rights, solidarity and respect for everyone, regardless of where they come from and what their personal circumstances are.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. And as the last Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, Group of the Left. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much, President. Yeah, brexit is definitely a very serious thing, but at the same time, it's tragic. I think there's a bunch of visual images that we find on this topic on social networks that in a way represent the metaphor of this project. Two of you are the fairest. The first is when there's a cat outside the door waiting for someone to open the door. Then the European Union's deadline opens the door and the cat is still there. This is kind of a description of the process of how brexit was created and how it also stopped. The second, which is a good metaphor for events mainly in the British Parliament in the last few weeks, is a video that has started to circulate in the last days that shows a man who is trying to cross a two-lane road, which is divided by a fence divided into two lanes, and at the moment that they reach the fence, the fence collapses and then, of course, in the good British manner, this man with the umbrella tries to repair this damage, but fails. And that's kind of what Theresa May has been doing over the last few weeks with these endless brexit votes. But no matter how tragic this situation is, it is brexit, it is said, that this child is increasingly popular and, above all, increasingly dangerous sovereignist aspirations in Europe, something that will have serious consequences both for people on the island and for people on the continent. And that's why today's law is actually some sort of contingent measure. Its provisions would apply in the case of so-called hard brexit, it is said, in the case of withdrawal without agreement; otherwise, the less likely scenario could have happened within nine days, and certainly within the next six months, it is said, after the extension of the deadline required today by the British Prime Minister. In this case, the law that we are considering today will be necessary in one way or another. His purpose is to fill the legal void that will arise if the agreement is not reached in time. This exit would be felt most negatively by those who are probably the least responsible for the current political situation, the UK citizens who are residing in Slovenia, who would lose the citizenship of the European Union at the time of exit without an agreement and become third-country nationals. The status of their family members would also change. Finally, the law also regulates social security rights for citizens of the United Kingdom, Slovenian citizens, citizens of other Member States, Switzerland and citizens of the European Economic Area. This ensures the preservation and enforcement of rights related to social security inclusion, access to work, recognition of professional qualifications, social transfers, in particular education and the right to carry out research activities. Although we are dealing with the law a little late, given that the brexit has already been in progress for almost three years, in the process, the government could have prepared it earlier, the gabarits are more than unknown, so Members probably haven't had enough time to shake it thoroughly and also suggest better solutions informedly. That's certainly not good. But in good faith that the marriage is prepared with the thought of anyone who would be harmed by so-called hard brexit in one way or another, we will support it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your position, Mr Member, which was the last in the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that in the second reading, the amendments to the amended law have not been tabled, so I conclude the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 4. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 1. Agenda item - PROPOSAL FOR A DECLARATION ON SUPPORT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF 2. April 2009 on the European will and totalitarianism. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Daniel Krivec. With regard to this proposal for a declaration, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor first to Mrs Eva Irgl's representative. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! For the fourth time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled a resolution of the European Parliament on European consciousness and totalitarianism, always with the same aim – to confirm this together and unitedly for the European peoples and the united Europe so important that it confirms the declaration of support for the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. For all those who follow us, the content of the resolution is as follows. Having regard to the various declarations and resolutions, the European Parliament quote: “A – because historians agree that historical facts cannot be interpreted entirely objectively and because there is no objective historical report; because professional historians, however, use scientific tools to study the past and try to be as impartial as possible; B — because no political body or political party has the exclusive right to explain history and because these authorities and parties cannot claim to be objective; C — Since the official political interpretation of historical facts should not be imposed by majority decisions in parliaments; because Parliament cannot adopt legislation for the past; D — Since the central objective of the European integration process is to ensure that the fundamental rights and principles of the rule of law are respected and that Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty on European Union provide appropriate mechanisms for achieving this objective; E – because misinterpretation of history can promote exclusion policies and thus lead to hatred and racism; F – since it is necessary to preserve the memory of Europe's tragic past in order to honor the victims, condemn the perpetrators and lay the foundations for reconciliation based on truth and memory; G — because in totalitarian and authoritarian regimes of the twentieth century in Europe, millions of victims have been exiled, imprisoned, tortured and killed; however, the Holocaust has to be recognised as a unique case in history; H – because Nazism has been the main historical experience of Western Europe and because they have experienced both communism and Nazism in Central and Eastern European countries; because it is necessary to promote understanding of the dual dictatorial legacy of these countries; I – because European integration was initially a response to the suffering caused by the two world wars and the Nazi tyranny that led to the Holocaust and the spread of totalitarian and non-democratic communist regimes in Central and Eastern Europe, and there was also a way to overcome deep divisions and hostility in Europe through cooperation, integration, the end of war and the provision of democracy in Europe; J – because the European integration process was successful and finally led to the European Union, bringing together the countries of Central and Eastern Europe that lived under communist regimes from the end of World War II to the early 1990s, and because before that the accession of Greece, Spain and Portugal, which suffered under long-standing fascist regimes, helped to consolidate democracy in southern Europe; K – because Europe will not be united if it is unable to create a unified view of its history, if it does not recognise Nazism, Stalinism and fascist and communist regimes as common heritage and if it does not engage in fair and in-depth discussions on their crimes in the previous century; L — As the re-unified Europe celebrates the 20th anniversary of the collapse of the communist dictatorship in Central and Eastern Europe and the fall of the Berlin Wall, it should be an opportunity to strengthen awareness of the past and to recognise the role of democratic citizens' initiatives, as well as an incentive to strengthen the sense of community and association; M – because it is also important to remember those who actively opposed totalitarian rule and who should have a place in the minds of Europeans as heroes of totalitarian times because of their sacrifices, loyalty to ideals, honor and courage; N — because from the point of view of the victims, it does not matter which regime deprived them of freedom, torture or murder for any reason; for the first time – expresses respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and is given to all those who have fought against tyranny and oppression; Secondly, it renews its commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe based on values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law and respect for human rights; thirdly – stresses the importance of preserving the memory of the past, because without truth and memory there is no reconciliation; reaffirms its unified position against all forms of totalitarian rule regardless of ideological background; fourthly, points out that recent crimes against humanity and genocide in Europe took place in July 1995 and that the fight against undemocratic, xenophobic, authoritarian and totalitarian ideas and aspirations requires constant vigilance; fifthly – emphasises the need to support documentation and testimony on the restless European past in order to strengthen the European awareness of the crimes committed by totalitarian and non-democratic regimes; Sixthly, regrets that 20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe in some Member States still unduly restricts access to documents that are important for individuals or necessary for scientific research; calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services, even though it is necessary to ensure that this is not used for political purposes; the seventh time – strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes; expresses sympathy, understanding and recognition for their suffering to the victims of these crimes and their family members; eight times – declares that European integration as a model of peace and reconciliation is the free choice of the peoples of Europe to commit themselves to the common future and that the European Union is specifically responsible for promoting and protecting democracy, respect for human rights and the principles of the rule of law, not only in the European Union but also outside it; Ninthly – calls on the Commission and the Member States to continue their efforts to strengthen the teaching of European history and to highlight the historic achievement of European integration and the sharp contrast between the tragic past and the peaceful and democratic order of today's European Union; For the tenth time, it is convinced that the proper preservation of historical memory, the extensive re-evaluation of European history and the pan-European recognition of all historical aspects of modern Europe would strengthen European integration; 11th time – calls on the Council and the Commission to support and support the activities of NGOs such as Memorial in the Russian Federation, which are actively involved in researching and collecting documents related to Stalinist crimes; 12th – reiterates its consistent support for strengthened international justice; Thirteenth – calls for the establishment of a platform of European memory and conscience to support the integration and cooperation between national research institutes specialised in totalitarian history and the establishment of a pan-European documentation/remembrance centre for victims of all totalitarian regimes; 14th – calls for the strengthening of the existing relevant financial instruments in order to support the professional historical research related to the above-mentioned issues; Fifteenth – calls for the proclamation on 23 August of a pan-European Day of Remembrance to the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes so that we can honour their memory with dignity and impartiality; Sixteenth – is convinced that the ultimate objective of the disclosure and assessment of crimes committed by the communist totalitarian regimes is reconciliation, which can be achieved through recognition of responsibility, a request for forgiveness and promotion of moral reconstruction; and 17th, order its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Parliaments of the Member States, the Governments and parliaments of the candidate countries, the governments and parliaments of the countries associated with the European Union, and to the governments and parliaments of the Member States of the Council of Europe." This is the content of the resolution of the European Parliament, respected colleagues and those who accompany us at home. On the Justice Committee, I went from point to point with all the parliamentary groups, from paragraph to paragraph, through the entire resolution and at each point, Members' groups were asked whether they had any reservations to the content read. Let me point out that the parliamentary groups were without reservations and without debate, but they voted against the content of the resolution, i.e. against the adoption of these common European values. I repeat, acceptance, not introduction. Against the adoption of these common European values were the Social Democrats, the Modern Centre Party, the List of Marjan Šarc, the Left and Alenka Bratušek. Here I must conclude that I feel sick that there have been and remain for 10 years in the Slovenian space and that there are parties who, through a resolution, are also unable to condemn totalitarian regimes, Hitler's Nazism, Mussolini Fascism, Stalin Communism, Ceausescu, Honecker and others. Especially since the Slovenian people experienced and suffered under all three totalitarianisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. On 15 March 2019, the proposal for a declaration was considered by the Committee on Justice as the parent working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a declaration after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee found that the proposal for a declaration at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Meiri Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 7th urgent meeting, on 15 March 2019, the Committee on Justice considered as the working body the proposal for a declaration of support to the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, submitted by the group of Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposaler, Eva Irgl, said that for the fourth time the European Parliament had been invited to support the European Parliament's Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which confirmed the European Parliament's opposition to all totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and set 23 August for the day of the remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. That resolution connects us with common European values, as it is based on respect for human dignity, human rights and the rule of law, so the motioners expect Members to express their single support to her after the debate. In presenting their written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the declaration was an act of a political nature by which the National Assembly expressed its views on important issues. The proposed declaration concerns substantive support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, and they therefore point out that the National Assembly adopted a special declaration, which it took note of, as early as 2009. In doing so, she pointed out that the proposed inclusion of the whole text of that resolution in the draft declaration under consideration was not only unnecessary, but was also inadequate in terms of principles and method of taking definitions, views and decisions at national level. At the same time, in the context of the examination procedure, amendments could be made in substance, which is obviously unacceptable. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice presented the Government's written opinion and stressed that the Government is aware of the importance of that resolution, but does not define its content. The Government has already taken a number of concrete steps on the basis of both of those 2009 acts, such as the preparation of novels of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives and the Law on Hidden Military Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, and therefore does not support the proposed declaration. The Committee voted, without discussion, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, on all points of the proposal for a declaration together and did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chairman of the Committee noted that the proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism on the home working body had been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Dominika Schwarz Pipan, State Secretary, Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As it is said, the Group of Members and Members of the National Assembly, with the first-signed Member, Mr Daniel Krivec, submitted a proposal for a declaration of support to the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism for consideration on 5 March this year. In its opinion on the proposal, the Government points out in the introductory paragraphs that the text of the proposed declaration is linked to the declaration of the National Assembly of 22 October 2009, which the National Assembly took note of in its resolution of the European Parliament and which was also published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the adoption of the proposed declaration of support for the resolution, as it does not see any valid reasons for amending or supplementing the 2009 memo declaration. In the opinion of the Government, the adoption of this declaration, taking into account the specific historical circumstances of Slovenian history, was a deliberate, balanced and long-term decision of the National Assembly, which does not allow historical revisionism. At the same time, this was both appropriate and, above all, sufficient action in terms of the relationship between powers between the European Parliament and national parliaments. The resolution of the European Parliament is a political act of the autonomous institution of the European Union, in which all Member States participated through their representatives in the European Parliament and which, as such, is a fact for all Member States. It should also be noted that the applicants in their proposal did not identify themselves until the existence of the 2009 declaration already adopted, nor have they identified whether they propose its repeal or supplementation or any other action vis-à-vis the existing declaration. Consequently, two important political acts on the same subject could exist in the Republic of Slovenia if the proposed declaration could be adopted this time, but with different definitions. This could, of course, also raise an inappropriate question of the relationship or hierarchy between the two acts of political nature, including from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In particular, I would like to point out that the definition of the Government as regards the proposal to adopt a new declaration concerning the European Parliament resolution which is the subject of today's debate does not include or reflect the definition of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia up to the very content of this resolution, which is, as has already been said, a political act of the institution of the European Union and is not confirmed in national parliaments. The Government, as it is said, is aware of the importance of this resolution, which is reflected in the concrete steps already taken by the Government on the basis of the same resolution as the 2009 declaration of the National Assembly, for example, as part of the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the pieta to all victims of war and post-war violence, as defined, for example, in the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims in 2015. Mr President, Members and Members, the Government therefore does not support the adoption of the proposed declaration on the basis of the above-mentioned reasons, and stresses that, at the time of adoption of the 2009 declaration of the National Assembly, the most appropriate response to the European Parliament Resolution on European Loyalty and Totalitarianism is a consistent respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights and respect of victims of all totalitarianism and authoritarian regimes, in the preparation and adoption of each individual legal act in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the SAB Group with the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, we do not have any problems and respect the values expressed therein, but we have problems when this well-meaning resolution is misused for political purposes. The purpose of Parliament's resolution is to express respect for and a gift to all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe, while also stressing the preservation of the memory of the past. With the adoption, the European Members condemned all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights that took place on European soil. It has been almost 10 years since the adoption of this resolution in the European Parliament, and almost that much will pass since the adoption of the declaration of familiarity with the resolution in question in our National Assembly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is here. We cannot agree in any way with the fact stated by the applicants – that the 2009 memo declaration is following the opposite objective as a resolution of the European Parliament. That's not true. In 2009, the National Assembly took note of an act of a supranational authority, which is not part of the European Union's acquis, but is in force in the European political area and must be taken into account in this way also in Slovenia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has undoubtedly expressed its respect for all victims of the totalitarian regime by means of a declaration of familiarity. He stressed that the political authorities and the parties did not have the right to explain history and left it to the experts. Finally, the first point of the declaration indicates that the National Assembly will do everything in its power to develop Slovenia as a democratic, legal and social state. Let me also mention that most of the other Member States of the European Union have never considered a resolution of the European Parliament at all. It is, as it were said, a political act of Parliament. The few countries that have dealt with it have become familiar with it, as we have done in Slovenia. I will not mention any of the legal, systemic and nomotechnic concerns which are reflected in the report of the parental department and relate to the way in which the proposaler addresses this problem. I will only say that in the SAB Group we respect the principles that this resolution advocates and, in the first place, respect the principle of the rule of law, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms. Every time we submit this same declaration, for the fourth time in ten years, we understand, in particular, as the proposalr's wish to use the resolution for political purposes to deepen ideological contradictions between our citizens. In the Group of Members, we would also like to see the drafter of the position and principles of this resolution live in practice in his daily work, in the vote of his Members in the European Parliament and so on. For all the reasons given, we will not support the declaration in the way it was submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u57	Vice President, thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! We have been talking about supporting the European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism for the fourth time if, of course, the memory does not deceive us. The Declaration on familiarity with the resolution was adopted by the National Assembly in 2009, and a number of circumstances have indeed changed during this period, affecting the deterioration of the economic and security situation in Europe, which many are exploiting for the netification of new hatred. Since the end of World War II, the century has not passed, and since the end of the bloody war of the breakup of the SFRJ, we have already witnessed new sights of homophobic ideas and nationalist movements, which are a very good basis for the resurgence of totalitarianism. In order to avoid totalitarianism and other autocratic forms of governance, it is primarily necessary to ensure something other than the signature of the document. Above all, we must deal with the awareness that we must pursue respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for freedom, democracy and the rule of law before we take the right to explain history. These professional historians don't dare to take into their own hands. For this reason, we also rejected the proposal at the meeting of the parent working body. Slovenia respects that resolution and has adopted and implemented legal acts in this direction that help to uncover and study the half-lived history and, on the other hand, strengthen the awareness of the inadmissibility of dealing with victims of this war and post-war violence. In the Desus Group, we believe that the State, by adopting the declaration of notification, has already shown its commitment to respect the provisions which the resolution also contains. While the proposer argues that Slovenia, by implementing the resolution, retains recognition of a different selective history which Europe is not supposed to recognise. What history, then, should Europe be recognised in the Slovenian space or Slovenia in the European area? As has already been said, in the Desus Group we have been familiar with the resolution in 2009 and respect for it, but we do not see the point in re-decision on the resolution. The decision of the National Assembly was legitimate and weighed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u59	That's a good-bye! We will not vote on the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism today, although it was given in Europe on 2 April 2009. All totalitarianism is actually a crime against humanity, but in certain segments, so it is difficult to decide which segment is dominant. But totalitarianism is totalitarianism, and we can't get out of this. Slovenia became aware of the declaration or the resolution and remained so. Political parties generally do not support reopening this issue because they fear ideological divisiveness in opening up these issues. On the other hand, we fully agree in the Slovenian National Party that history needs to be cleaned and opened, that it is necessary to write both on the left and on the right and then to elicit the true truth. The real truth is what hurts most, and surely a lot of pain would come to the left political sphere if we opened it up in perfection. But I think something else is more important. Today we are faced, not today, with aggressive statements by Italy's top political representatives, Czech, Primorska is Italian, Furlania - The country of July is Italian, everything is Italian. After all, even in Slovenia, some want to amend the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia and instead of returning the Primorska homeland want to write the accession of Primorska to the homeland, meaning anšlus, what he did in 1937 Hitler, when he joined Austria, but after the end of the war, Austria returned to its framework. But if it were the way Mr. German declares it – what would happen? It would have happened that the Italians would have said in time, well, because you yourself admitted it was anarchus, and now we're going to demand Primorska back. It's a terrible thing! These similar statements are also taking place in connection with this horror. It is important to be aware that the Italian state also elects mayors of Dalmatian cities and also Slovenian cities every four years, regardless of what happened in World War II and what happened at peace conferences after World War II. That's why we need to be very careful here so that we don't get into any of this. I must say that three years before this European resolution, the Slovenian National Party filed a criminal complaint against Italian war criminals who were not punished on 19 April 2006 with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Why not? Due to the agreement of the Communist Party of Italy with the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. It's a complete list of these criminals, number 165. And yet even then the Slovenian authorities did not want to process this and the Supreme Public Prosecutors rejected it all together. One wonders what our authorities are doing, why they are doing this, whether they are still subject to the old communist connections of that time, or whether they are subject to today's European dictatorship. These are bad things. The marines also want a solution to this. After all, I said last time that it would be necessary – like the Slovenians in the country of Koroška and the country of Styria – to recognize the status of the constitutional nation, because history speaks that way, and we should demand that the constitutional status of the Slovenian nation be recognised in Furlania - the country of Juliana, because we were then a constitutional part of this region and only after Italy was brought together in 1860 did we go to the other side, including the referendum. At this referendum or decision-making, the Slovenians also voted to go to the Italian side for a simple reason because they thought they would be better off, but soon they got it over their heads. It is important to be aware that it is not a fascist authority, the authority is the authority, but that the Italian state has travelled to Slovenia. Today, when it comes to fascism, fascism is just one form, a form that worked in the country. Therefore, it is also questionable whether we can just think of the width of fascism. Why don't we say that there's an Italian country back here, why don't we say in Nazism that Germany or Spain is at a certain point in time? Why don't we say Russia is under Stalinism? Why not also say that all the countries of the Visegraj Group, as well as Yugoslavia, were part of communism, although there was a significant difference between that regime in Slovenia and the same regime in Serbia or Macedonia or elsewhere? In short, what can we do here? We will not vote on this at all, but the only thing is that historians take matters into their own hands, regardless of political preferences, but that they should look through the papers, look for and publish books. But not the kind that Mr Repe publishes when he writes praises to the former president of the country, but the historical books based on papers. After all, there is also a lot against Mr Leljak publishing those books, but he publishes the documents, and that's right. The documents must come out in order for us to be able to make decisions and decide what is right now and what was right in the past. If we don't do this, then it won't work. However, I must say that the Slovenian National Party will again file this criminal complaint, and let's see what gentlemen from the current government will do. True, most of these people who are written in here are already dead, but also post-mortem can, as can be rehabilitated, be condemned, and that is our task.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Felice Žiž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u61	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! Egregio vice presidente della Camera di Stato, Egregi deputies! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! I will briefly present the opinion of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. I tell you, I will repeat most of the words and phrases that the predecessors have already told before me, but I hope I will be a little shorter. I would like to begin by quoting from the text of the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by totalitarian and authoritarian regimes of the 20th century, such as fascism, Nazism and communism. It says: “No political body or political party has the exclusive right to explain history” and, “because these authorities and these parties cannot claim to be objective.” In 2009, the National Assembly took note of the content of the text of the resolution, as Slovenia and its inhabitants also marked all of the worst totalitarianisms of the 20th century. He adopted a declaration of familiarity with that resolution. In the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, we believe that this decision of the National Assembly was appropriate. In our view, the most appropriate response to this resolution is to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and human dignity, freedom, democracy and the rule of law, including the rights and respect of victims of all the totalitarian and authoritarian regimes of the 20th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The position of the Marjan Sarca Group will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. Also because I am one of the younger members of our Group of Members, the LMŠ Group, I will not be ideologically defined in my position. I do not see any added value in this and we share such an opinion in the parliamentary group. At this famous agenda item, which called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Justice, although it was already on the same scale and on the same agenda in previous references three times, the LMŠ Group would like to draw attention mainly to two facts. The first thing is completely technical. The fact is that the resolution referred to in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was discussed as early as 2009, when the National Assembly took note of its content by adopting a declaration of familiarity with the resolution. So today we are dealing with something that has been dealt with in the past in the National Assembly, and also with the same content, not just the same, with the same content, the National Assembly has adopted a certain act. The adoption of today's proposal for a declaration would result in the adoption of two different acts on one and the same subject, which is unacceptable in terms of legal certainty and also in terms of some hygiene. This has also been rightly pointed out at the Ministry of Justice and, if so, the applicant should propose either an amendment or a supplement to the declaration already adopted instead of the adoption of the new declaration. As a second fact, I would like to point out that the Declaration of Awareness adopted in 2009 also states that it will quote: “The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has done its utmost to develop and establish the Republic of Slovenia as a democratic, legal and social state in which special care will be devoted to the protection of human rights and freedoms, and to strive for tragic acts and divisions during World War II and during the period of the single party socialist system after it and their consequences are remembered as historical facts that should not cause new divisions, contradictions and hatreds.” Otherwise, I would not read the entire fourth paragraph of paragraph 1 of the declaration because reading a declaration or a resolution from letter to letter is not a presentation of the position and even less a supplementary explanation. However, I wanted to point out with the following words what seems to us in the LMŠ Group to be unproductive and even inappropriate, but today we are witnessing again – that in politics we continue to focus on the themes of our past history, when we have to deal with the present and our future. Otherwise, I understand that we have different policies among different political parties, but I do not understand the fact that some political parties have always put forward ideological issues that do not contribute to better prosperity in the country or to a better social climate, but quite the opposite. Political explanations of facts and divisions have never been a good basis for the development and progress of any society. In the LMŠ Group, we have already stressed many times, and I will do so today: it is time for our people to stop burdening themselves with ideological themes and to stop sharing on the basis of past half history. In our country, there are plenty of other important topics that need to be discussed. For this reason, we also estimate in the LMŠ that today's treatment, i.e. the fourth is already addressing the proposed declaration in a row, is unnecessary and, of course, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respected and respected! Social Democrats are not the first, and probably not the last, which, in our position or in the introduction to the debate at this point of the agenda, we find that this is the fourth attempt by the SDS to decide on the same matter. In view of the outcome of the vote on the Committee on Justice, it is clear that it is a once-in-a-lifetime failed attempt to impose on the National Assembly in order to give particular effect to one of the European Parliament's resolutions in our legal order. Nevertheless, we are today, not of our choice, participating in a performance that has already had some unfortunate repetitions, on which the audience has already given a clear signal that the script is bad and that the players have not convinced the distorted story of sin and guilt by their continued performance. There are probably not many logical arguments that could explain the persistence of SDS in an ever-increasing defeat. Only when we look at the context of this debate is it clear that this is not a proposaler's masochism, but rather a demonstration of the goal of eternal defeat or eternal return of the same one that is the heart of his political and ideological agenda. While most of today's meeting has been focused on the future, the SDS is once again bringing us back to the past with a proposal for a declaration. More precisely, at a precise point in the past, where everything ends for the SDS and at the same time it starts again and again. This is a historical period immediately after World War II, from which the SDS is being recharged. Social Democrats are never and will never reject the debate on the past. We need to know the latter so that we can understand the present and plan for the future and avoid making mistakes from the past. As the first German Chancellor said after World War II, who felt the horrors of the Nazi regime on his own, Christian Democrat Konrad Adenauer said: “Reviewing the past makes sense only if it serves the future.” This Adenauer's thought is best served by the current difference between us and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Especially at the point of reference to historical events during and after World War II in the area of today's independent Republic of Slovenia. No matter how complicated the past is, especially when it comes to a period of war, which is, by its nature, a source of suffering and injustice, we Social Democrats were already able to move beyond our own threshold in 1995. At the convention of the party in Slovenj Gradec, we strongly condemned postwar killings, condemning the abuses that the authorities of that time had committed against individuals. We also strongly condemned human rights violations, condemned the abuse of law and the State for political, class, religious and other purposes. We have condemned all of these many times in the National Assembly. We have also actively and constructively participated in the legislation on the correction of injustices, as well as in the management of graves. Maybe we could do more. Probably like the other parties. All, both policy and society, could perhaps focus more efforts on supporting the enlightenment of history, clarifying individual doubts and clouding circumstances. But anyone who really wants to do something about it and not just give the impression that he's doing something has to, and he's gonna have to start with himself. That is why the Social Democrats will never seek meaning in returning to the past because of the past itself. More, loud and sharp, we will face any attempt to change history, no matter how complicated and painful some of its parts are for us. We guarantee that we will once again oppose the reduction of the importance of national liberation and, on the other hand, attempts to relativise Nazi and fascist crimes. At this point, no compromise, from which the European Parliament's own Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism was born, is possible for us. The lawfulness of passing time is that we are slowly losing the key to understanding the past, which allows the SDS and others alike to try to open doors to different interpretations of historical events and their abuse for attempts at present and future division. The real danger of this and probably any future repetition of today's debate is the blurring of modern totalitarianism that is growing in modern formal democracies. It seems almost unbelievable that we are good 70 years after the tragic events of the 20th century in modern Europe with formal democracy, both at European Union and Member State level, at the same time justified and replaced by the rule of law and the protection of human rights, as evidenced by the emergence of political options that justify and even magnify the actions of former Nazi and fascist leaders. Similarly, the SDS seems to be openly and proudly sympathetic, supportive and cooperating with them. As the proposal for a declaration on the home labour body has been rejected, the Social Democrats will use this item of the agenda as an opportunity and a responsibility to discuss the danger of such relativisation and duality further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u67	Your Honor! The Committee on Justice, of course, did not support the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which they submitted in the SDS. The proposer even said that there was no debate. For the Slovenian public, it will be clear: we waited for the debate, we prepared for the debate, and the President or the President rushed us by interrupting because we were too slow. However, at least we have allowed him to take his daughter home earlier, which I think is significantly more useful in that moment than this debate that the proposer wanted to have on this committee. However, we will only take advantage of the opportunity today in the National Assembly to carry out the debate as it stands. What is important and, of course, in the Group of Members, we do not oppose the efforts and calls expressed in the Resolution of the European Parliament, and we will take them into account in our work and in our conduct, or in the National Assembly, as well as in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Republic of Slovenia, since 2012, when Janševa's government has designated 23 August as the day of the victims' memorial session, regardless of who runs the government or who forms the ruling coalition, it marks the European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of All Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes, as shown by the actions of either the Government, the President of the Republic, the National Assembly, the National Reconciliation Study Centre, which is a state institution, I also mention it, civil society and not least the Roman Catholic Church. Also at the beginning of this term, provisional President Matthew Tonin, on the day of the remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, addressed this assembly, which is the only correct one. However, we would like to point out that the SDS's proposal to support this resolution has already been submitted on the fourth occasion – 2009, 2013, 2015, 2019, probably 2023 more and probably 2027 more. We have exactly the same fate. Why am I bringing this up? In particular, I mention that it is essentially important to know the following. If we believe what John Janša actually mentioned in his government at the beginning and very clearly said this when he ruled, he said the following, we must stop and regret anyone who promotes any intolerance and return to ideological debates from the past, and thus mention the following: that we must deal with the future, with development, economy and not least with the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] Look at the fraction, there is no longer the Prime Minister, we already have here the opening of those matters to which he, as Prime Minister, has expressly opposed and even called for us not to do so. That is why this duality, which we have already witnessed on a committee where Members' groups are called upon to identify themselves on specific issues of this European resolution, is, of course, a reminder. At the same time, they say that no one should abuse these events for political purposes – they do. If we did this for the first time, I would also understand that they are warmed up and taken because they are doing this for the fourth time, it is a well-known political performance, which is presented in the National Assembly constantly with one purpose. What's the reason they're doing this? It is undeniable that they recently had a convention where their party chief says in truth that it is time to clear up who thinks right and who they will cooperate with. He says the following – just to find out that I quote him, I will be ours later, he says the next composition in the sense that anyone who is willing to sign this European declaration or European resolution and is willing to condemn all these fascisms, communisms, is those partners with whom they can cooperate without question. [[…]] So he went back to knowing who he was actually willing to work with. This, of course, also makes the introduction to this performance that we have today in the National Assembly. So, all those we don't support today, we can't cooperate with Janez Janša. By this logic and its definition, as he explained at his convention, he made it clear what time it was. In fact, it is important that we are aware, as we speak of ideology – that the ideology of SDS is based on the decommunisation of society, although several of the current political leaders of this party's former members of the Communist Party are also several. The SDS therefore consciously promotes the so-called cultural struggle, which in practice means the proliferation, division from the time of the revolution and civil war between the Second World War and the post-war regime. But we are concerned that it goes so far into its grip with the communist SDS that it is more dangerous to it than it is to fascism itself — today’s modern fascism, which is transformed into a different organization. More than foreign threats and territorial demands, he is concerned about domestic communists. In this regard, it is worth noting that, at the recent incident in Bazovica, SDS President Janez Janša and MEP mags are. Branko Grims, in a controversy between the President of the European Parliament, Tajani and the Interior Minister of the Italian Government, Salvini, and the President of the Government of Sarc, and the Foreign Minister, Dr Cerar, and European Commissioner Violeto Bulc, put him on the Italian side. How can someone who considers himself a Slovenian and a patriot pay tribute to Slavini and Tajani for relativizing Fascist crimes against Slovenians and territorial demands in Istria and Dalmatia? Otherwise, in the SMC, we are primarily interested in how the SDS would decide if the Parliamentary procedure of the National Assembly were to be followed by a European Parliament resolution of 25 October 2018 on the rise of neo-fascist violence in Europe. Why do I mention SDS in relation to the resolution? Does that make sense? He's got it. In fact, she does not hide her sympathy for the Slovenian branch of the generation of identity. This is the movement that the resolution specifically highlights when it mentions examples of members of movements condemned in the European Union to promote racial and religious hatred. The resolution also states that Parliament is concerned about reports from Member States that political leaders and political parties are cooperating with neo-fascists and neo-Nazis. The German, French, Austrian, Czech and Dutch branches of this movement and the Eurostat or Europol report, this is Te-Sat 2019, cited as an example of extreme right-wing extremism and terrorism. SDS is a co-owner of Democracy, which through its publication New Horizon published a Slovenian manifesto called the Generation of Identity. So these same generations of identities, which this report very clearly exists. SDS Member Jean Mahnic also posted on Twitter a photo of Manifesto for the country. But Jan Mahnic is not the only member of the SDS who is sympathetic to members of the individual movement. Although the SDS officially claims not to cooperate with them, in Kranj last December, an event on Human Rights Day was organised together. On this day of human rights, Mr Mag. Branko Grims discussed with an interesting title on migration and human rights for the Slovenian exhibition of the generation of identity, which is classified among extremist groups of the extreme right or as right-wing terrorism. In Europol, they also point to the link between politicians and members of former and current neo-Nazis; groups such as Blood and Honor. Anyone else remembers how, in 2011 and 2014, when foreign media reported, the British Guardian specifically mentioned the following: “At least two members of the Blood and Honor, including the head of the Slovenian Blood and Honor branch, were identified as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party’s youth wing. Among the members of Blood and Honor were soldiers of the Slovenian Army. It is known, however, that members of Blood and Honor have participated in SDS events on several occasions and have met with senior political officials.” And second quote: »The policeman, who was the bodyguard of Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša and also Borut Pahor, proved to be a close acquaintance of Slovenian leading members Blood and Honor. The policeman was also an SDS sympathizer.” The facts that have already been said in the past speak of the fact that today such a resolution with such a call is relatively specific, interesting in the way it actually calls for and should be defined. Since in the SMC Group we believe that the proposed act is formally inadequate, inadequate, because we believe that it is contrary to the purpose of the European Parliament resolution and the 2009 declaration of the National Assembly, and because we simply do not support the political spectacle of the SDS, of course we do not support the proposal. However, in 2015 I discussed in the National Assembly and concluded with the following article, saying: “If you will hear for once in this mandate and stop proposing such points, then I will understand that you are still in favour of development and progress, because no Slovenian or Slovenian woman is really interested in such a topic anymore. They are interested in where they will have a job, how their children will develop, whether Slovenia will be able to be one of those countries that will have a successful development and will be able to praise its descendants for taking care of them, for the good and healthy foundations ahead." In the end, I end up with one sentence: Will this help, I don't know. Today I'm sure all this will help nothing at all. Unfortunately, we have a rerun coming up soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u69	Your Honor! The examination of today's act was expected at the time before the European elections. The European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism is one of the many documents by which they want the conservative forces in control of European institutions to impose a specific model for the interpretation of modern European and global history. The objective of today's debate is, of course, only one: this is a forced debate on half-time history and on Nazism, fascism, Stalinism, with SDS primarily on domestic accounting, the demonisation of post-war Yugoslav socialism, although it has clearly cut with Stalinism. In Levi, we certainly recognize the severe suffering of people who have been victims, particularly of fascism or regimes, who have tried to build socialism. But we do not agree to attempts to throw all past socialisms into the same basket, let alone these attempts to throw socialism into the same basket with Nazism or fascism. The sign of totalitarianism became highly popular in the first two decades after World War II, in particular with American ideologists who, for the purposes of propaganda war, compared the darkest examples of communist and fascist practices with the ideals of Western parliamentary democracy. It was a measure of the abstract ideal of individual freedom, which has the highest place among the political values in the West, which they wanted to compare with the image of the often brutal reality in Eastern Europe and Russia. This comparison, of course, is not fair. Let us ask ourselves, Whose interests required millions to die in World War I. Why did hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese and Vietnamese have to die in the bombings? At the end of World War II, why were hundreds of thousands of people killed in the Anglo - American attacks in Dresden and Japan with nuclear weapons? This is of no particular interest to Western ideologists of the Cold War. Serious historical and political debates have therefore rejected the mark of totalitarianism from the ideological sheath of the Cold War; and that is the point. The same is true today when we have to reject the mark of totalitarianism even more decisively. The ideals of human rights, respect for human life and dignity, to which the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism swears, are being hit every day by the misery of everyday life on the European periphery; in Europe, here and now. The talk of human rights and humanity is at a moment when millions of Europeans and Europeans live in misery, poverty, with shamefully low pensions, with minimal wages that do not prevent even a bare survival, even decent lives in Slovenia. And this is also a problem that we have to deal with in Slovenia. The talk of human rights also unfolds as a fluke when, at the moment, hundreds of thousands of refugees in the territory of the European Union are in a terrible and human situation, who have had to leave their homes because of Western military intervention, with Slovenia participating and participating. At the borders of Europe's fortress, as we would say, they suffer in situations no man should have experienced. In Europe, camps are growing where refugees are divided, but colleagues and colleagues, you do not call it totalitarianism. You're calling the motions: let's close the borders. You demand more repression, more human rights violations, more denial of human dignity, more totalitarianism – both at the borders of the European Union and at home in Slovenia. You have participated in the adoption of laws that give the military far too much power, which should not be given by the army in civil society to suspend asylum proceedings at the border surrounding Slovenia with cutting wire, which increased the police's repressive powers. That's not enough for you. In your opinion, the border is too permissive, and some of your loyal members would even defend it with weapons. But if I go back to the beginning. The general logic of the various historical socialist attempts you are trying to impose is wrong. In many respects, Yugoslav self-government socialism was totally incompatible with the Soviet and other types of communist or socialist regimes and represented a much more positive and human attempt to build a socialist society. Efforts towards a different society, socialism from the Paris Communion to today, have gathered general electoral rights, social services and most of the civilisational achievements that should be assessed at the highest price today, but which are being consistently eliminated and demonised by neoliberal doctrine, which is also the meaning of this resolution, which is being considered today. But if something has turned out to be true in the last 20 years, it is that since the fall of socialism, capitalism has thrown away its human face and threatens to take over and throw itself into some kind of totalitarianism. To see the attempt of capitalism without democracy, human rights and freedoms, we do not need to go to China today. We can visit Turkey or neighbouring Hungary, where the Orban regime in Europe is already marked by neo-fascism. It is interesting that the SDS party which today proposed the adoption of this resolution is one of Orban's main advocates in the dispute in the European People's Party, and that is why we cannot take its initiative seriously. In Levica we oppose the proposal, we are against historical revisionism, and Levica is against reinterpretation and against the fabrication of our common history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u71	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! World War II also claimed a huge number of human casualties in Slovenian territory, both between Slovenians and members of foreign nations. Many human casualties also claimed to be mass killings, killing political opponents, both prisoners of war and the civilian population, by the revolutionary authorities of that time. According to the Institute for Recent History, the number of these victims is only among Slovenians 14 thousand 885. Victims of post-war beatings were executed most of the time without a conviction. Written information on the place of execution of the individual victim by name and surname was generally unknown or accessible. Slovenia is the only country in Europe that has been oppressed by all three of the worst totalitarianisms 20. Centuries: Fascism, Nazism and communism. But communism has caused far the most distress in our country. And worst of all, the vast majority of the victims were tragically killed in the months following World War II. Respected former president of the SAZU, Jože Trontel, said: “Naziism and fascism will never be blamed for World War II, for the terrible woes caused by many nations, for the millions of victims who have fallen into conflict, were killed in camps or interwar killings. The fact is that the third totalitarian system, communism, has entered into the war with new horrors." End of quote. All three totalitarians are therefore worthy of conviction. One of the content of this European resolution is also the marking of 23 August as all the European Day of Remembrance of Victims of All Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes. Maintaining the memory of these events and their relevant historical evaluation is certainly one of the important assurances that this will not happen again in the future. The other points of the resolution also bring only facts which we cannot oppose from the point of view of human values. In New Slovenia, we regret that the National Assembly cannot adopt the proposed resolution and thus condemn all three totalitarianisms. In 2009, the adopted declaration of familiarity with the European Parliament's resolution on European and totalitarianism does not constitute actual adoption and support for this resolution. Getting acquainted with something does not mean the same as agreeing with it. In Novi Slovenije we have at least partially performed the civilisational duty of every nation. With the adoption of our Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims in 2005, we have allowed the government commission to address the issues of hidden graves in addition to the 600 recorded hidden graves to record numerous new hidden graves and to take care of the burial of the remains of the victims. All the comparable countries have done so long before us. We regret that Members of the Committee on Justice have not even been able to discuss our common half-time history. Slovenia has so far not been able to hold a thorough debate on these issues. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is the only one who, in 1992, 1995 and 1998 at the declaration level, made it clear that the Republic of Slovenia is a constitutional democracy, that is, a country in which the conduct of the authorities is legally restricted by constitutional principles and by human rights and freedoms. The National Assembly was unable to do so. For this reason, it would still be important to vote on this declaration today. We will not, however, because the Committee on Justice has not accepted the proposal for a declaration. Thus, there remains a difference between the work of the Chamber which would vote in favour of the adoption of the resolution and the work of the Chamber which would vote against it. Part of the hall condemns all three totalitarian regimes and part of the hall condemns only two. Yet all three of them beat the dignity of man. It's communism, too. And that was condemned by all the countries of the Eastern bloc. On the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the resolution, it would be high time for our national assembly to do so as the European Left and Right adopted in 2009 along with all Slovenian MEPs. In Novi Slovenija, we supported this resolution every time, last in 2015 and we also support it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before we go to the general debate of Members and Members, Daniel Krivec has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! It was very interesting to listen to this auditism, which most of you are acknowledging to our client. I must point out that, with nothing on the committee, nor in our debate or position, there was nothing else to speak on but a resolution which was virtually unanimously adopted in the European Parliament even with the support of all the MEPs from our country during the period. It is only that we have drawn attention to the civil standards set out in this resolution that have been written in the past by this State Assembly, and that it has never so far verified in the sense that it also agrees with the origins of these standards. That is why we are repeating this resolution. However, my procedural proposal will go in the direction of an apology request from Dr. Brglez, who in his debate has somehow connected us or said that we are sympathizers and found supporters of former Nazi or fascist and Nazi groups at this time. I don't have a magnetogram yet, but he says, "It seems incredible that the SDS is openly and proudly sympathetic, supportive and cooperating with them." I would like Dr. Brglez to apologize to our client or prove these things, because this is beneath the level that he is openly linking us to these groups in plenary, and he claims that we are cooperating with them, compacting and so on. We, once again, on the committee where Eva Irgl presented the resolution from point to point, did not open up any topics that touched on rematchism, we did not set any points in the past, but we were only talking about the resolution and asking whether you agree with these points. The fact is that Mr Möderndorfer has also lied heavily, because there was an opportunity for discussion on the committee, but no one has applied for the debate. So once again, I am procedurally proposing that Dr. Brglez apologize to us for, I would say, an unworthy statement of pacting and support with these Nazi and fascist groups. But lastly, I have to say that it grieves us that you've all been getting into some sort of rematch to our party, and no one is talking about the resolution. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u75	Procedural. In view of the fact that the incorrect statement is in the entire case, I shall use the procedure for clarifying this paragraph. This paragraph seems entirely as follows: “The law of passing time is that we are slowly losing the key to understanding the past, which enables SDS and is similar to it to try to open doors to different interpretations of historical events and their abuse for attempts at present and future division.” You don't argue with that. “The real danger of this and probably any future repetition of today’s debate is the blurring of modern totalitarianism that is growing in modern formal democracies. It seems almost unbelievable that we are good 70 years after the tragic events of the 20th century in modern Europe with formal democracy, both at European Union and Member State level, at the same time justified on and replaced by the rule of law and protection and human rights, as well as by the creation of political options that justify and even magnify the actions of former Nazi and fascist leaders. It seems equally incredible that the SDS is openly and proudly sympathetic, supportive and cooperating with them.” It refers to the political options that are doing this today. You can check that out. I have nothing to apologize for.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much, both of you. I now propose, if already, that the procedural proposals relate to the application of the Rules of Procedure, as the provision is written down. The rest is then a matter of discussion and possible replicas or requests for additional clarifications. Procedural? The culprit, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u77	Thank you. We'll also wait for the magnetogram and then request perhaps even a written apology. But still, this integration of our debate that was not – you talked about everything else, not the resolution, both in your mission and in other Members. You referred to our debate, where our proponent did not mention any particular case, but strictly and exclusively the topics mentioned in the resolution. In no way has our Group defined itself to any specific case from a half-lived history. From your discussions, however, the debate was intended only for this purpose, and not by the word of the resolution itself, or by your position, to those statements of the resolution and the decisions which were practically adopted by consensus in the European Parliament. And you have now confirmed this in your debate. That is to say, you have taken advantage of the debate on the resolution to attack our parliamentary group, which, in not a word on the committee or in this Chamber, has not troubled any half-lived history. We have pointed out what the resolution says, and we are taking our stand for it all the time. Unlike all the other parliamentary groups that you have tried to give us in the mouth a statement about the problems of the past, which none of our Members have discussed. And this initiative has also been designed, without any broad debate, without us identifying ourselves on a case-by-case basis, because you all find that we are not historians and that this is left to history, we support these civilisation standards, which are clearly set out in the resolution, without any commenting on individual items in any way. But you've avoided it. You don't support these standards that are written down. You're talking about us getting acquainted in the past – we also got acquainted with the Minister's resignation, but there [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u78	Mr Krivec, this is a procedural proposal, this is not a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u79	My procedural proposal will be to make Mr Brglez apologize, because all these insinuations about our connection to these structures, fascist and Nazi, are still beyond measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Guilty. One more time. The procedural proposal is a proposal to be addressed to the Chair. It is not intended for any discussion between Members. That's why you have a debate and nothing else. The positions of the groups are the views of the groups of Members. I propose that these limits, as set out in the Rules of Procedure, be adhered to. Now it's just as free after Preshern, and it won't work. No matter who makes this motion or any other matter. Procedurally, Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u81	Thank you, Chairman. I hope that you will treat the left side of the hall with the same vat as the right. I ask the chairman to invite Mr. Brglez to present here in the National Assembly one piece of evidence – one piece of evidence! – that I, the Member of the National Assembly, in the SDS Group, and otherwise the President of the Council of the Slovenian Democratic Party – this is the most powerful body, the most important organ between the two congresses, fall into this category of speech – I will quote him once again: “The SDS seems to be equally supportive and cooperating with them, namely, these fascisms and so on, communism and so forth, openly and proudly.” One evidence, please call on Mr Brglez to provide one proof that I, as a representative of the SDS, one SDS body or member of the SDS Group, am sympathetic and openly and proudly supporting those who express such a position. Otherwise, if he doesn't transfer one piece of evidence – he said earlier that they were clearly documented, let him apologize to me personally, because when he said that, he said that I, as the president of the world, am sympathetic to such -isms and those who like to sign under them. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Logar. I have to all those who use the same vat rules, I have not made any mistakes here in this part, in fact, so that I may warn Mr Krivec earlier. In accordance with what has been said, I am in favour of the request, Mr Brglez, to apologize for the statement you have made on behalf of the Group of Members. That's all I can do right now. Your choice, your decision. If you don't, then we'll follow the script or the list of registered people. Member Janja Slug has been reported for the debate and has the floor. Get Dr. Milan Brglez ready for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Discussions about the past of Slovenia are gathering energy, someone once said. And this was the president of the party who is proposing this hearing today. Once again, the SDS is proposing, for the fourth time in a row, to be defined by the European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism adopted in 2009. As I said, it was once done in 2009 and 2013 and 2015, of course again today, probably again after a while and so on. This initiative has been rejected every time. And there's another fact. On 22 October 2009, the National Assembly adopted a declaration of familiarity with this resolution. So today we are talking again about something that the National Assembly has already done. That notification declaration was adopted at that time. This was done thoughtfully, and in the meantime, after my knowledge, no new facts, no changed circumstances, and nothing, which would require reconsideration of the adoption of this declaration or even a different view or amendment of this. Resolutions adopted by the European Parliament are not documents requiring specific legal acts from national parliaments to take particular note of these resolutions. No, no, no. This resolution is not required. And no other European Union country has done so. None. Only three European Union countries have considered this declaration on the competent parliamentary working bodies and have only considered it, namely Bulgaria, Estonia and Germany. Among them was not Hungary, with which you sincerely sympathize. Or Italy, with which you sincerely sympathize. This was not done in Hungary and Italy. And here's your duplicity, yours and your president. I will repeat and quote him on what he said when he first presided over the government of this country: "The debates on the past of Slovenia are gathering energy." Your president at the time regretted that discussions in Slovenia in the 21st century were still under way on the co-operation of World War II. This is what he said if I quote: "Slovenia is collecting the energy it needs to face the challenges of the future effectively. Those who warm up such debates do harm to the Slovenian future." And I can certainly agree with that. But of course you're doing exactly that today. To avoid any mistake, all totalitarianism is, of course, worthy of judgment, also their victims, but each country has its own past, each country has its own problems. And I think we can say that Slovenia has made a great deal of effort in eliminating injustices as a result of these events. I am speaking, of course, of denationalisation, of the Law on the Correction of Blame, of the Rights of Pension and Disability Insurance and so on; of course, of course, such injustices will never, ever be fully eliminated and corrected. But by opening up this subject over and over again, in fact to those people who have been affected by it, who feel some pain, you do just that – every time you open up this pain again, you cause a separation, you want to start counting on ours, yours, whites, blacks, I don't know what else, and to explain in your own way, according to your suggestions, the history of what happened, who did it, who didn't do it, who did it, who did it, who did it less guilty. And what worries me is that, in fact, you are more concerned with communism than you are about communism, that you are more concerned than the foreign threat of Slovenia by some domestic communists and that, in the event of the incident in Bazovica, your President has made a very frank stand on the Italian side, as well as your colleague Grims, who said congratulations and respect to Mr Salvini for his fake news and his anti-Slovenian views. That's what we need to worry about. And when we talk about the European Parliament's resolutions, let me remind you, the European Parliament has also adopted another resolution, a resolution called the European Parliament Resolution of 25 October 2018 on the rise of neo-fascist violence in Europe. This resolution has also been adopted by the European Parliament, but your Member did not support it; I wonder why. It is also, of course, a duplicity for you to demand from us today some kind of servility to Europe, which, on the other hand, you keep reading to us all the time. Let's make up your mind! I don't understand, I don't understand, as I said, on October 22nd, the National Assembly adopted the Declaration of Acquaintance, and you're asking for a re-examination. Today we report together at this point for 6 hours and 55 minutes of debate. Is that normal? Of that almost 3 hours of yours to make no mistake, you have almost 3 hours of it all together. I really don't understand why we should discuss this infertilely here again for 6 hours and 55 minutes, while this debate of course is not going anywhere at all. And one more thing. In our previous reference to the initiative of New Slovenia and SMC, we adopted the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. We got him. And this law in Article 1 states exactly what you are asking today, this resolution. And you didn't support this marriage. You didn't! This resolution is referred to in Article 1 of this Act. You didn't support him. So what are your intentions? What's that? It's all gone, that's all. There's an election coming up again. You have no idea. I know you won't stop doing this, I know you won't, we'll have this over and over again on our benches, but I really am the last time I'm going to talk about it, and I don't intend to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the word, and Jani Möderndorfer is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In this debate, I would like to try some things, in fact, how it is necessary to act before this resolution and to understand it, to expose it. But I'd start with something that's more important. Today's topic of discussion is the Declaration on the adoption of the resolution, on the support for the resolution. So the resolution as such is not a topic because it is already an ad acta, this resolution has been adopted at the level of the European Parliament and at this level this matter applies because we are all members of the European Union politically committed to us. So we have to try to respect her as best we can. And what I've pointed out before in my position, or the part that may be even more important, is that a certain amount of respect is shown by individual acts. Now, the first opportunity for such an act was the debate at the time, and then the declaration, which is valid in our legal order, was, of course, politically again, because it has no other effect, created. And this would have been attempted without the removal of the previous declaration, in fact, to replace it with a new declaration, because they cannot both coexist, or it makes no sense that this would coexist in this way. What I also said is that the Social Democrats did their homework in 1995 at their Congress in Slovenj Gradc. Now I will point out exactly what they said: “We condemn the postwar killings of the invaders' associates and the legally insurmountable reckoning with opponents of the current government. We condemn the abuses perpetrated by the then authorities on individuals, violations of human rights, political discrimination and persecution, unacceptable use of methods and means to achieve the objectives, abuse of law and the State for political, class, religious and other purposes, and immeasurable vendetta. In particular, we condemn the extrajudicial liquidation of returned domestic prisoners and the conviction of post-war political trials.” This is precisely during the period that is actually the most controversial. On this point, the position of the Social Democrats is clear and, on the basis of this, many attempts have also been made to implement partially in the Cemetery Act, which I said earlier, when it came to the creation of the amendment of this law in 2009 with a monument to all the victims, which we have actually completed only in the previous term. But in all these cases, the same thing has always happened — not all of them have. There wasn't really anything we could do together. And the basic thing about this kind of implementation and this kind of symbolic or whatever end of stories is that you do it together. Not in the way anyone else wants it, but in a way that we can work together. Just as this resolution was an absolute compromise for all, because everyone had their own at the beginning and it produced a text that cannot be contradicted by what is written in it. The problem is that some things are not written in it. And one such issue, which is not written down – this is a substantive debate – is a lack of emphasis on fascism and in particular the certainty of this and the fact that some European countries have not gone through certain processes of de- either nacification or fascism or decommunisation. These are the facts. I'm not talking about other things. For this reason, it is very important for me to understand the matter and to understand the issues and to overcome the trauma caused by these serious crimes and this state of non-recognition for such or other reasons, it is possible to go in different ways by this trauma. On the one hand, by allowing historical science to really make the greatest effort in understanding and illuminating the facts at the time, although it cannot fully, no, in the whole, it cannot be reconstructed to reinterpret it, but not completely contrary to the facts, because they are just an objective boundary. That's one. However, another important thing is possible from the history of the Holocaust and from all that has come up, so - called Holocaust literature has developed that allows modern generations to overcome such trams. This is sometimes a literary reanimation of the present time, even for us most likely for those traumas that occurred between the second and the second world wars, there is literature both on the one hand and on the other, and it is worth looking at, even those who are also critical of their own, against those who are supposed to be theirs, but are trying to put the matter humanly. All of this can help us to understand such matters, but it is important, at least to understand these matters, only to separate things. And I've already said what I think about these things, why the idea of fascism and national socialism is evil by itself. The idea of communism, let us say that it is neutral from this point of view, given how it has historically and otherwise emerged, but all its practices have been abuse, or Stalinism, and this pact between Stalinism on the one hand and national socialism is one that is supposed to be marked as a day to remember totalitarianism. Perhaps these matters were more clearly set out in such and other matters at that time. But the words are important, the concepts are important, because otherwise we suddenly find out everything in one thing without being able to separate these distinctions and thus prevent the occurrence of such matters. Or perhaps I can illustrate this with an example of one author I remember and experienced some specific fate of Castoriadis. He said of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: “Four words, four lies, none of this is true.” It wasn't Soviet, it wasn't a relationship, it wasn't socialist, it wasn't a republic. But that's when you try to make official names sometimes, actually, cover things up. And you just need names if you want to deal with things in the right way. And yet another distinction, which is only important in the context of World War II, is that which was defined, or from it for the first time I heard so clearly, Professor Prunk, who was also my professor, one of those authors of the 1995 report, which is the first such attempt at historical evaluation of events from 1929 to 1955, yes, because a wider period has to be taken, not only smaller, because then immediately the wrong interpretation of where you actually start for history, because history, wherever you start, can be for such a different reason, is already biased. In the case of the Yugoslav case, it is the 16-day dictatorship that then defines the conduct of the leaders of political forces, not individual fates. These two, the separation between how political leaders defined themselves, on the other hand, what individual fates were, which were cruel, impossible, depending on the context, criminal, all of this, absolutely, only need to be understood and such understanding also gradually built. What Prunk said was that the difference between World War II was that Communism was a winner. That's the difference. Fascism and Nazism were defeated. That's a fact. From there, of course, there's another story. And with regard to this story, at least the position of the Social Democrats is very clear. What is still a problem in our case, given the difference between general and special, is that you have a story of national liberation that cannot be completely separated from revolution. It can't be completely. It's conceptually yes. And we're celebrating this. We celebrate the national liberation fight just because it's a struggle, a rebellion against the invader. You can do that. However, according to history, he cannot be completely different from the other. Yes, we can also celebrate the Liberation Front as some form of the people's front, which has also made some difference compared to other countries in such camps or which could be attributed there. On the other hand, we have a problem that collaboration or cooperation with the invader cannot be distinguished from counter-revolution. Depends on the first one. What's important is that we condemn collaboration. Because it doesn't just go away. I also have to help myself with the words of the Hribar Memorial, which says two things: first and foremost – without war, there would be no postwar beatings. And the second, which is more important and which I hold myself to, and in the previous mandate, has also been adopted by law – cooperation with the occupying forces is a betrayal; always will be and always will be. However, here is the crucial issue: The Antigon did not deny the betrayal of Polyneek, his guilt. All she demanded was a five-year burial of his remains. So, the question of marking graves, decent burial on the one hand and guilt are two issues that cannot be linked in this way. On the other hand, it is a civil duty to do what is necessary, and I think that these things are being done, that these attempts of concerting have been sufficient. I'm afraid never by involving all the actors. But — fortunately — always by including both the left and the centre left and right — however you want the matter. Of course, on the other hand, what sometimes hurt the left side is that it did not admit that the war with the revolution or the implementation of the revolution within the national liberation struggle had fueled the struggle itself. That's a fact. But this does not diminish in anything the basic idea of rebellion itself, and here is what should be celebrated in this regard. What I would like to say is that the specific origin of this resolution is its consistency. Sometimes they scare me a little. Okay. It was intended to further or somehow expose itself to communism. To a certain extent, absolutely, even in the context, as I said, of Eastern Europe, Stalinism. In our case too, Stalinism was first present in response to the information desk — right up until that time in 1955, this period could somehow be placed as one that is truly of absolute regret. And what later became essentially political or any social process would certainly not exceed modern standards of human rights. But what is more important is that this has led — that is, to such treatment and equality — to the beginning of a relativization of the Holocaust. Politically, we see the consequences right in Eastern Europe. Right where these crimes happened geographically, not because of their guilt, but where they happened. Just denying it is actually a problem for yourself. An additional problem is the prohibition, on behalf of the Holocaust, of the international or political condemnation of Israel's treatment of others, particularly Palestinians or anything like that of anti-Semitism. All these things start to get mixed up and get abused. Which reminds us of one thing: that every good idea can be misused. And that is the basic cruel knowledge that sociology can give us to a certain extent. If I mention the case that I was asked about before – because you all mentioned it, Bazovica and everything that was involved in this – it does not need essentially such visible members that it simply cannot be different, these visible members represent a certain option and implementation within this. Of course, you can always get stuck in that kind of behavior with yourself, which is a political option, but what we haven't actually seen. In fact, she basically referred to other matters, but for that there is absolute evidence which the Slovenian public also understands. As I said, if we are to actually respect this resolution, we do not need a new declaration, but we need common practices that we will agree on in a symbolic and other way together. This means that we will talk about how to do these things, and that we will be able to come together on individual, let's say, pietous matters. Cases can only be closed in this way and in no other way. But it starts, like I said, with me. First you do your thing with yourself, then you're able to have dialogue with others, and then you can do it. I hope that because of ourselves, we will be able to do this for future generations once. But this must be common and what will be agreed, which no one will be able to own, but it will be some common thing that will enable us, hopefully, to prevent in the future the occurrence of anything like this anywhere, and in particular with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, I will now perform significantly more easily and also explain certain things that have been announced in the position of the SMC Group. But first, I'll start different. You file a document as a candidate, and you expect us to talk only about the written letters of this document, with everyone knowing that this document has a significantly larger and broader dimension, especially if we look through the prism of history and certain conduct of individuals within the country. At this point, of course, the offended proposer and their leader react in a way that they say we want to discuss only this resolution, only what it says here, but, of course, they do not want to say that these discussions have already been going on at least four times or now it is the fourth time, and that they have actually tried every single time with a slightly different reception to get their profit, the ransom, and this is to do stupidity as the only country in Europe that no other country has ever done, which is, of course, in mockery. So what we are different in Slovenia from all other European members to understand this document in themselves, and we have to somehow internalise it, so that literally, as they did in 2009, they copy and do it in a declaration and say, that's it. In short, it's just an introduction so that it's understandable why certain things are just going to have to be mentioned a little differently. My predecessor talked about the problem itself in terms of the Holocaust and the problem of how we deal with the subject only and how it is from the perception of each individual, in which case I will speak political options, perceive and perceive the problem and also want to draw it. Of course, I'm going to continue where it's much worse. Okay, okay. We are talking about the past, we are talking about history – but what is happening today, what is happening tomorrow? I'm much more worried about it, and I'm not going to talk about it now, and I'm not going to worry about where my child's going to be at work that way, but I'm worried because from certain things in the past we've had, we haven't completely learned anything and they've started to repeat themselves. Fascism, I'm sorry, my dears, is on a march in Europe and it's fat! Just in a new dress, and this in a change that some even worship, they identify with them, they go to their events and they interpret them as being something new, a new way; in short, something great. We're talking about a generation of identities. It started in France, continues in Germany and, of course, reached us in Slovenia. And look at the fragment! Applicants whose owners are the journals Democracy and this is co-owner of the New Horizon publishing the book The Generation of Identity. This book The Generation of Identity is represented by members, Members sitting in this Parliament. How should I believe in the sincerity of such a resolution or declaration that they propose that we discuss it and that we renounce the misuse of such documents for political purposes and leave it to historians? How am I supposed to believe that? I am sorry that my colleague Grims is not present today, there is no Mr Mahnic present today, nor is President Janez Janša, who is constantly distanced, if only possible, from all those topics that are actually produced. I'm sorry they're not here today, because I want to argue with them, because they like to stand up so much that they want to have a discussion, and then they put their tail between their legs and they rot and they're gone. It's all about the reason. They knew when they called, and they knew when it would be on the agenda today. That is why I feel extremely turned around today to discuss how things need to be arranged and to make it clear that we are opponents of all totalitarianism and, in fact, we are giving them even a kind of support in new clothes. How am I supposed to believe a man who advocated that postwar killings should be recognized and, of course, a certain fivefold relationship realized? From the law proposed by Nova Slovenija and we fully supported it here, from, I'll say, other proposals, how can I believe a man who, in fact, when a monument is placed in the centre of the most elite location in Ljubljana, says that this is not the case? [[…]] I'm talking about a monument in the Congress Square to all the victims of the wars and the consequences of these wars. How can I believe it? How am I supposed to believe the people who actually made it possible in this country to erase? More! Those who did not allow it, however, defended that in the end even the European Court of Human Rights had to judge because Slovenia did not want to do so. And that's, excuse me, no offense, totalitarian action. Only the autocrats can do that! That's right! Are we going to admit that? But of course we are always at the beginning; at first because of one simple thing. Because some would like to talk about just that piece of paper, no consequences, and no results. From a technical point of view, both the Legislative and Legal Service or the Legislative and Legal Service have not spoken in this case, but has given a second opinion before that, and today several Members have spoken in their views, such an act is in fact completely contrary to our normative order – in the way it is proposed. But they don't know that by chance? Well, come on.Oh, my God! They know that very well! They are very well aware that such a document cannot be adopted in such a way. Because if they were in power, I wouldn't say 2004-2008, because there was no document yet, but they were in power in 2013, 2012. And then they didn't propose, and they had a majority in the National Assembly, in this way. Look at the fragment, why not. And I could, and I'd still be accepted! [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] A colleague has a problem with his phone during a sitting session, so it seems to me personally this way in fact is kind of turned around and unfair to us all sitting in here. [[…]] By the way, the leader of the SDS Group said that I had lied at the beginning when I said we wanted to discuss it, and the president beat us to the punch. Too bad there's no chairman with us in the hall, because I'd like to tell you what that looked like. It's true that we've been snitching for a few seconds more than usual, watching who starts first and who doesn't. But believe me, I had a very fat and clear discussion and would be very much like here today; with one difference that I would not be limited in time. But in the final phase, it is irrelevant, more important, that you realize that your actions are in some way, for the first time, insincere, after the fourth attempt inadvertent and non-innovative and third, in fact, you are embarrassing a complete institution that you really love and abuse constantly for this kind of way of discussion. Last but not least, God forbid that any fool would be found and even allow such a document to really be accepted in such a form, in the way you suggest it, because then you would be embarrassed because you would not be able to explain all the following cases, why this is not the case. In the final stage, I propose to the applicants, indeed, I call on them to present such a debate also on the basis of the resolution I mentioned last year. Of course you won't, because you'd find yourself inside very quickly! I know there are some good people in the SDS, but you have some hard core that you can't say goodbye to, and this hard core insists that you idolize, by the way, an autocrat like Orban. Me?Oh, my God! And it's a very clear freeway and it's no shame. Interestingly, you honor a man who actually uses instruments that were used in communism at times. Give up this worship, and I will slowly begin to believe that you are in fact truly democratic and that you honestly think with such proposals that you are putting into Parliament. Give up At the final stage, you will see that in Eastern Europe, in the so-called multi-urban group, we have a country in which you force us, why not join this story and this group, why should we really respect these countries and their actions. [[…]] I'm sorry, but for me, the measures given by these individual countries are extremely perverse and very similar to the dictions that you are proposing in your document as a proposal for us to give up. Very similar. So, dear fellows, I'm going to repeat one thing. Every minute is spent on me, which I put into such a debate, but I will never give up on her because once you're silent, you'll be silent forever. And when you discuss it in this way and magnify something that is not really there, I will always come by and always stand on the sidelines of reasonable, normal and what most in the Slovenian space accept. Because that's not the majority you're suggesting. And if we are representatives of the people, then we must, above all, defend what is normal, healthy, particularly constitutionally, has some legal principles and, finally, respect some order. But the devil is in detail, each eye has its own painter and its own perception of perception. Well, that's not my perception!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Igor Patchek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Let me begin by saying that, despite the other arguments and the starting points of today's debate, it is not intended to address the content of the resolution, because it is, after all, already in force in all the Member States of the European Union by adopting it in Parliament, but is intended for some ideological starting points which may have been in the background and which have not been so visible today and have been more visible in the debate of coalition parties, but nevertheless. First of all, I would touch on the fact that I have had one thought through the entire debate, namely, the wars of the horrors of the 1990s, which my generation has experienced very vividly. In fact, not far from us, when we were carelessly enjoying our teen years, there were serious, serious things going on in Bosnia. There has been a civil war and today the memory of genocide in Srebrenica is so much more alive because we are waiting for the final verdict of Karadzic. So wars, especially civil wars, leave behind real deep pain, suffering and mistrust among nations; the mistrust that it takes decades to rebuild, or it will never be. It's hard to forgive, it's even harder to forget, or it's almost impossible to forget. I must admit that for me who come from Istria, it is impossible to forget the fascist and Nazi ideology. Remember this ideology, the memories of the victims, are extremely alive in Istria. It is this Friday that we will worship the first victims of fascism in Strunjan, namely, children whose children’s game was brutally interrupted and their lives brutally ended when they were shot and mutilated by drunken fascists passing by by by train on 19 March 1929. And why? Only because they spoke Slovenian. These were the first innocent victims of the ideology of hatred, and we will never forget them! We'll keep reminding them! But yet, new generations really don't want to live in the past anymore, want to live in the present and look forward to the future, and therefore we should stop the healing of old wounds and the pain of ancient history, overcome the difference and move forward. From this point of view, today's debate of grief. Why do we always need to open up wounds from the past that do not heal in any way? Or would it be better for our common good to leave them behind and become the past in fact — the past is history. The past shouldn't burden us. The past should warn and teach us not to repeat old mistakes! Above all, we must ensure that such horrors do not recur and that we no longer bring hatred and discord into society. From today's debate, I feel that we are doing this again, although today is actually an ideal opportunity to say that it is up to all of us, and especially to us, Members and Members of Parliament, who are representatives of all citizens and citizens, to prevent the horrors of totalitarianism and authoritarianism from recurring with zero tolerance for all forms of violence. Historical facts, as Dr. Brglez has already said, cannot be changed, but we can only accept them. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that our experience with communism and socialism differs from that of other Eastern European countries. The latter also confirms the scientific report of the Institute for Recent History from 1955 on the key features of Slovenian politics in the years 1929 to 1955. The report, which states on page 111 that there were no differences in basic characteristics between these regimes, nevertheless states this: “In practice, since the 50s, even more pronounced after later years, there have been noticeable differences. They were shown in a different type of property, social and non-state, in higher social personal standards, greater consumerism, in certain forms of creative pluralism in culture, as well as in other areas: to take greater account of economic legality, to decentralise, to strengthen the independent national sovereignty of republics, to increase the plurality of the information system and to gradually open up to the world that began in the 1950s, and to become one of the main values of Yugoslav society in comparison with Eastern European countries of real socialism, in particular Slovenian society.” Scientists, therefore, have already, with more than 20 years of fact, with evidence, objectively explored all the key features of half-lived history, identified themselves on all open issues, as well as clearly recorded who was on the side of the invader, who fought decisively against occupation, and who elected the Slovenians freedom, the right to Slovenian language and Slovenian culture. And it is not our task to assess past history, that is, not the task of the National Assembly, but even more; and the resolution that we are discussing today itself quotes: “No political party or body has the exclusive right to explain history, and the historical facts should not be evicted by majority decisions in Parliament.” It is time to stop ideological fighting and start solving the real problems that our citizens and citizens are struggling with. Although this has been said several times today, I will say again: The National Assembly has already taken note of the resolution. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is clear, the declaration does not have a legally binding nature and this document can only be understood as a recommendation on how countries should face the past that is tanning the event during that period. The European Union is an autonomous and independent legal system on the part of the Member States. With sufficient clarity and specific reference to the resolution, the summary of its text in the proposal for a declaration is therefore unnecessary and inappropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, for my sake or even better, for the sake of the younger generations, let us stop the ideological struggles and, as a politician, let us be examples of the ethics of the public word, and above all let us start to deal with and solve the social difficulties and actual problems of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u90	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mrs. Iva Dimic, we want you to speak. But get ready, mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. This debate here in the hall – one after the other – because you also have some time as a proponent so that you can answer. However, because I listened here in this hall on all sides of the debate, even the lessons of history back — just like in 1985. But I think I can say it in one short sentence. Nazism, fascism, and communism trampled upon man's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. For the mag. Mark Koprivec – just let me take a look, there are quite a few reviews – Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Much has been said today. The declaration, which we are reviewing today, has been discussed four times by this National Assembly; today we are considering it for the fourth time. While the National Assembly was formally informed of the content of the declaration in 2009, this should be sufficient. I don't know what the young people who just left this balcony are thinking and are watching today's session. What's the point? From year to year – or even from month to month, we put up and repeat one and the same ideological themes over and over again. Is it an emergency? Of course, it's an emergency. It's an emergency! And the Slovenian people have come to their senses. At the symbolic level of 1990, when the then President of the Presidency Milan Kučan and the then archbishop Aloysius Šuštar in some way marked this reconciliation by a reconciliation event. A very big and very important event for our country. Even the Social Democrats, we who are proud heirs to the Communist Union, adopted a declaration in 1996, as Comrade Brglez said, in 1996, where we clearly and unequivocally condemn postwar killings that were crimes. We can do this again or again if necessary: postwar, extrajudicial postwar killings were crimes. The same as the crime of collaboration with the greatest evil of mankind — fascism and Nazism. And that, dear colleagues and colleagues, is the main purpose of today's debate! That you're reviewing history! To say that the Belarusians were on the right side of history; to deny their cooperation with the invader. We're not going to agree to this. Even if you apply for the same debate ten more times in the National Assembly. We do not agree, these are the facts recognised by the whole of free Europe. It is known that the partisan struggle was on the right side of history to fight against fascism and Nazism, and it is known that there was also a collaboration in Slovenia that you are trying to justify in every way. Here's an article from Slovenia. This is, if you do not know, a pre-war clerical – and even after the establishment of a new establishment of capitalism, this journal was published in Ljubljana or Slovenia for some time. Here you can see very clearly the position of the command of Slovenian patriots towards Nazism, to the great Führer and so on. These are the facts. These are facts and you will never, ever, ever change them with many debates. The fact is that it is very difficult to compare our Union of Communists with certain other Communist parties in the Eastern bloc. The union of communists democratized itself, achieved a number of things, from which we are still reaping fruit today, many social rights were established between 1945 and 1990, at the same time, for example, as an example of women's electoral rights in Yugoslavia formally established in 1945, in fact within the organs OF before. In Switzerland, for example, which is such a fine example for all, but only in the 1970 ’ s, and I could mention it. At the same time, I repeat: what is to be condemned must be condemned, and we have condemned the Social Democrats. I'm surprised, your president -- who isn't here today. Given that this is such an important topic for you, I would expect him to be present in the hall – he was one of the more orthodox members of this party. Then, of course, he crossed over to Demos, took power, the party ran for Socialist International, from which she was thrown out, and then joined the European People's Party, the EPP, which is a group of peaceful Christian-democratic central pro-European parties. Just yesterday, we were able to listen to Mr Grims on television, how absolutely this group of customers is not appropriate for them, and to seriously think about joining a group of customers that belongs to Salvina and similar. And so I might be referring here to the accusation of Comrade Brglez when he was talking about how the SDS somehow compacts or sympathizes with customers who are also close to a modern fascist idea. In any way Salvini and the stories that happened in Bazovica, at the place of death of many Slovenes, and then called for Istria to be Italian again, Dalmatia again Italian – these are fascist ideas! And I'm sorry, if you want to join a group like this, we can talk about this calmly and easily. But once again, this kind of debate is pointless for me, for most of our citizens and citizens. I'm sure with this kind of debate you won't change history, you can't! But I suggest that we focus on more important topics; on topics that are important to our people, for our citizens and citizens. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm informing you that I have only two more applications. Mr. Robert Polnar, yours is the last one written, if Mrs. Masha Kociper comes, it will be the last one, but it won't be the last one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u95	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. I'm going to talk about things. I'm not going to talk about a person or a proposalant. Totalitarianism as a political regime is based on a comprehensive ideology and terror that controls all areas of human life. It has been the custom to speak about it quite easily, but in ease it is neither the past nor the future. Lightness is the result of their discontinuation. Each nation is obliged to offer its own destiny to the world and to ensure the application of such ideas. Belonging to ourselves is today the most dangerous sin of our world. In the light of the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, we can also talk about an attempt to relativise fascism. Such proposals are also burdened by some other interesting and unpleasant contradictions. What exactly is totalitarianism? Is it agreed that the regimes of Mussolini, Hitler, Stalin, Mao Cetunga were totalitarian or that the main content was hidden elsewhere? Totalitarianism is not based solely on the rule of one and only party, on the present secret police, concentration camps, subordinate media, on lawlessness, fear and violence. On the contrary! Totalitarianism is also based on enthusiasm. Without any doubt, totalitarianism is a historical drama. But — and this should be emphasized in particular — is also a personal drama. It is born at a time when man gives up his own mind, his own destiny, his own body, and his health, his conscience, and his own instincts, his own mind, and his dreams. It is not born when a person voluntarily consents to submit his life to something that was once imposed on him as a higher purpose and a higher purpose, at the family table, at the political booth, at the head of the school, or in the media. Still, it is only a poor cowardice of obedience or a childish fear of rejection and disfellowshipping. It is still just stupidity, unable to recognize the void and deception behind which the higher centuries of historical goals are covered. All of this is still just the naivety of a desperate person. Totalitarianism, however, is born when obedience and subjection to race, country, nation, party, proletariat or some higher being is experienced as enthusiasm, as passion, as willingness to sacrifice, to renounce, to suffer. And just this enthusiasm, and totalitarianly, is every enthusiasm for any illusion that appears to be more important than human beings, just this enthusiasm is a great and unforgivable crime against itself. Concentration camps, genocide, hatred, torture, war, mass poverty are crimes that are inevitable as a result of this original crime of great enthusiasm. The aversion of totalitarianism is not limited to its brutal involvement in everyday life, but to the fact that subjects are required not only to be obedient but also to be happy because of this humility. Its tendency is to transform its political objectives into the intimate and emotional goals of its subjects. The success of totalitarianism is measurable by the quality and quantity of emotions that have replaced rational democratic procedure. Governance with the country thus becomes a historical mission; it becomes a predominant, but empty words become indisposable sacraments; humiliation becomes dignity; contempt for itself is transformed into pride in the willingness to sacrifice itself; and heavy intellectual and moral depravity is celebrated and presented as national awareness or as a class consciousness. An individual who agrees to this and in this port experiences a personal fulfillment has committed a crime against himself and the only technical and operational issue is when he will commit a crime against another. Totalitarianism is not only Hitler’s speech, it’s not just Stalin’s article or the chauvinistic propaganda that offends reason. Above all, it is the inability of an individual to experience himself as a private identity, which is not defined by anything other than his personal self, but by his origin, language or place of birth. These types of incompetence tend to grow to such self-despite that the unfortunate feels deprived or is even offended if it does not belong to the greater whole, the community he loves, for which he is willing to kill and for which he is willing to be killed. Where these people have lost their self - respect is a question that has not been answered historically. Is it really so difficult to recognize the harsh deception in the abundance of freedom offered to nations and classes? Do people really live in such existential, intellectual and moral abysses that they do not regret their time, their efforts, their lives to dedicate their lives to obvious obsessions that surely cannot bring anything but poverty and death? In this void and in this sorrow lie the roots of totalitarianism. Without mass and enthusiastic cooperation there would be neither Hitler, nor Stalin, nor Al-Qaeda, nor the blond athletes, happy colts and happy workers. There would be no police cellars and banned books, flags, anthems and coats, and only boring brands among boring brands. The success of totalitarian propaganda is not the result of inexplicable skills but the desire to believe it. The power of the political police is not based on its effectiveness, but on the small canals of the neighborhood, which wrap anonymously. Out of confidence and out of pleasure. In totalitarian regimes, the media are not unfreedom simply to make fun of power, but also to prevent people from recognizing their own moral misery. The fact that racism and anti-Semitism are criminal ideology and that the dictatorship of proletariat is a reliable path to disaster and non-freedom is useless. The problem is that people believe in it and are happy and proud of it. They are willing to accept any conjecture that shows itself to be more important than their own destiny. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am sure that the resolution that attempts to condemn all totalitarianism is politically flawed. Why totalitarianism is only one, regardless of which flags it develops and which invention it offers happiness and freedom. And it remains totalitarianism because it offers this happiness and freedom to fiction, not to a living man. Totalitarianism is nothing more than a willingness to give up on itself, for the sake of which many frauds, which are once more and twice with lower intensity, are offered on the market of ideology and on the market of global views. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You were the last, since the last Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go. On the current list of Members. We'll continue later.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to add a few words in this debate on my behalf. In my initial position, I have said on behalf of our party that the values contained in this resolution are by no means foreign to all Members of the Alenka Bratušek Party. We respect the fact that we wish to worship the victims of all totalitarianism and to cherish the memory of what has happened in the past and must never happen again. In this respect, we also believe that the resolution already adopted in this house adequately summed up the nature of this political act and that we have already reacted properly as a country in this regard. Nevertheless, I was pleased to hear today's debate, today's debate, which was very interesting at times, but at times, of course, very ideological, which cannot be avoided in such a topic. And this is what bothers me and our client most; that such a serious document, a document of such weight, is being used for political purposes and that it is ideologically disputed by the already troubled citizens in our country. But still, I, unlike my colleagues, wouldn't go back that far or deal with some accusations between the parties and so on, but would look a little further. I am deeply concerned about the events we have witnessed in our time. Not just somewhere far away from us, on other continents, with presidents, for whom a few years ago we should never have imagined in our dreams that they would ever be elected. No, I'm also very concerned about the situation in Europe. In Europe, which we have thought for years and years that there is a guardian of development, progress, democracy and common sense, there is a cradle of civilization, where we will all, together with our common powers, ensure that the horrors of the past never happen again. And as it turns out, it will happen again, perhaps. I don't want to scare anyone, but it's probably today's moment that requires us to think about what we can do specifically, so that this doesn't happen. In 1945, a terrible war ended in which millions and millions of people died, but this war occurred after almost 30 million people died just 20 years earlier and people like us, you and I, claimed that something like this could not happen again. So it's quite possible – let's hope not, I hope not, for us, for our children and everyone else, that not, but maybe – that something like this will happen again. And it will if we don't all work on not being allowed. I'm just reading an interesting book by the 20th-century Trilogy of the famous author Ken Follette, and I'm in the second book on World War II and it's an interesting view by a writer who deals with this subject from the viewpoints of different people who lived in different parts of Europe, one in Great Britain, one in Russia, one in Germany, for example. In particular, these views of this German family are very interesting to me and personally I am fascinated by the question of what happens to some nation, with some civilization, which at some point is very highly developed, such as, say, the Germans, the Austrians who have cultural institutions, a high level of development, not just the economy, but also science, art, edgy, cultivated people, writers, poets, composers – what happens to these people, that just a few years later, from the first events to these events, they chant to some soldiers in black uniforms with terrible calls, and so on and just a few years later they throw innocent children, women, older ones, and so on. What happens in a nation and in a man to come to this? What fascinates me as a politician is extraordinary. That's why I read different books, not just those books, about dictators, about other enlightened leaders, and I wonder what's the difference when someone as a leader takes a dark side, while someone stays enlightened, good and works for the good of people and humanity. This similarity between events in the past and the present is fascinating. Even fascism, even Nazism, have in principle started with something that was close to people: we defend jobs, we defend something that is good for Germany, we care about our citizens, we want you to have food to drink, that you will live well, but not some Jews who devour us, who threaten us, who come from God knows where they are bad, evil and evil, who will eat you and tear you apart, and I don't know what they are. The similarity with the horrors of migrants who come in millions, we will just be possessed, eaten, driven away, destroyed our civilization, taken away our jobs, and so on, I think, is more than obvious. More than obvious! Of course, people, normal, good, working people who are concerned about their future can be more or less inclined to such ideas. What my colleague was discussing before me is the question of when someone submits to such a mainstream within themselves and starts to believe something some leaders say to him and lose this basic humanity; not doing to another what you don't want others to do to you. That you don't insult, humiliate, despise, destroy someone just because there are other races, other religions, other skin colors, other nationalities, or other political beliefs. That's enough already. And it's happening with us. And in Europe, individual politicians promote exactly this with simple ideas, with ideas in terms of protecting you, we will save you, we will challenge what we have been building in Europe for decades – some standard, some level of democracy that we must never give up. According to experts, it was always a word first and then an act — from family conflict to war. First someone insulted, threatened, you'll see, that, that, that, that hate speech, he'll end up hitting, killing, banishing or doing something worse. All those who are democratic about the soul and are party members in this House, who have a democratic mark in their own words, should be particularly careful about these trends, and in order to suppress any thing that can lead against these times being repeated. When I see such a resolution wanting to be misused for something else, I am sad again that we are not succeeding. On Saturday, for the first time in my life, I was at a celebration in Javorovica, where the death was then, I think that in 1944, 113 partisans. In that celebration, I did not actually see anything political, and in my opinion, without difficulty, every member of this call, including you on the left, could attend this celebration. There were people who regretted that one day the Germans came and beastlyly killed a group of partisans who were not guilty of anything other than fighting foreigners on their own land. To strangers who came to conquer the earth, to change their language, to break their families, to subjugate a nation. That's what they were fighting for! There is nothing political about this crying of these terrible events. And when I say the values of national liberation are my values and the values of our party, I mean exactly what I mean is to resist totalism, repression, violence that others want to do to you. You resist because of your integrity, because of the integrity of your acquaintances, your family, your children, and so on, because you have no other choice. That's something that should connect us all. Different Salvinia and Orbani and so on – I wonder if they ever think about where hard words can lead, and if they are aware of how narrow the limit is. The reader of books like me knows how people at that time — politicians, economists making fun of Hitler, oh, what this clown is going to be, who is taking him seriously! Politics did not respond properly. They thought, ah, nothing would happen — until it was too late! Therefore, once again, let not this debate and such a resolution – let it not be their intention to separate people, but one thought of what all together, including the proponents, can make sure that this does not happen again. Whether we can soften a sentence or accept a different opinion at some point or at some point we can listen to it in order to prevent it from happening in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u98	Thank you for presenting your position, honourable Member. I therefore find, honourable Members and Members, that the list of applicants is consumed. I'm asking the government representative if she wants a word. You don't want to. I ask the representative of the proposaler, Mrs Eva Irgle, would you like a word? You want a word? The microphone is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I have listened very carefully to both the views of the groups of Members and Members later on, and I must say that, apart from my discussion at the outset as proponents, there may have been no discussion in any way, which would have touched on the concrete content of the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. You have always stressed that this should not actually be discussed at all, but if we look at the hall today and those who have been accompanying this debate at home, you could see that today only those who have always talked about it should not be discussed. You told or told us that we were having an ideological debate, and we didn't even discuss it, and you really drew a whole bunch of ideological questions into this debate. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking only about the basic values of civilisation that we belong to as a European nation, and we should respect them, both human dignity and human rights, but unfortunately the vast majority of Members of this today are still unable to do so and I am deeply saddened by this. It is very difficult for me to believe that after ten years of adoption of this resolution in the European Parliament, this policy is not in a position to come together and support a resolution that speaks of nothing but respect for human life. That's the problem. All the words you said today are meaningless, they're just words, there's no action. This resolution, which we are talking about today, has been tabled in the National Assembly for the fourth time by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We first filed it a few months after it was adopted by the European Parliament, and, of course, it was not adopted. We have always talked only about getting acquainted with the resolution, but we have never confirmed it or have never confirmed it. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much! I would ask, even if we are talking about too many important topics, that Members actually listen to what we are saying. For all that I am talking about now is also about the future, not only is it part of the past, but it is about the future. The future that you are talking about needs to improve the situation and situation of people in this country, and I agree, it is necessary, but I will tell you something, this resolution is based on previous documents. One of these documents is the so-called Prague Declaration on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Under this Prague statement was first signed by Vaclav Havel. I hope that I do not have to explain to this national assembly who Vaclav Havel was, I hope that you all know what he has done for his own country and for democratisation and for democracy. But this Prague statement was then signed by thousands of Europeans, very important Europeans, well-known personalities, people with respect, because they realized how important it is to feel these European values, which some have beaten, have really been beaten, even in the blood, so that today we can talk about European values and democracy. Some of you talk more than you do, and I personally see it as a problem. But this Prague implements, among other things, that societies that ignore the past have no future and I quote, “because the final reconciliation of all European nations is not possible without a focused and in-depth effort to find out the truth and improve the memory.” The European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism is also written from these very starting points. It's all from these starting points. It was mentioned earlier that we must not forget the genocide that took place in Srebrenica in 1995. It's true, a terrible sea that should never have happened. Never! But you know what? This resolution is based on a previous document that speaks of this genocide in Srebrenica, but you do not support it. You don't support it. Here you can see this significant difference between whether you are just talking, sorry, or just talking — and today you have seen, you talk a lot, you have spoken only on that side — or you are really doing something. And to do something that you feel in your heart. I believe that if you do not feel and breathe with such European values, it is difficult to vote on the resolution in this way. Of course, the image of the Slovenian left in Europe is quite different. In 2009, the European Members all voted – Slovenian European Members – regardless of political affiliation, they all voted in favour of the European resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. So one face is for the European parquet, especially before the European elections, and the other face is at home. And here I see a big problem in duality and you talk a lot, but you do very little. Even for the future, not just for the past, do very little for the future. Very little. It was said that the resolution talks about this, I will quote and read again, "because the official political explanations of historical facts should not be imposed by majority decisions in parliaments, because Parliament cannot adopt legislation for the past." That's what a colleague from the Social Democrats was talking about. I don't see any problem. I mean, it's in the resolution, she read it! But do you know what the problem is? That she doesn't support it, and I do. That's the difference. I support it and press "for" and it presses "against". Our Group of Members is pressing for a resolution on the content of the resolution. And you press "against" for the coalition groups. I personally went to the Committee on Justice to propose this agenda item from point to point, from paragraph to paragraph of the resolution and asked for each paragraph whether any of the members of the groups had any problem or any reservation to the written content to say it, to write it down and to speak in the debate. Nobody said a word! I also asked the Ministry of Justice to be able to state up to all the points in the resolution whether they had any reservations or whether they had any problem with the European values defined by this resolution. There was no answer. There was no debate between Members and Members on the Committee, but we could explain all this. I wanted, really, honestly, I already, I think, that now almost 15 years in politics, but I am still naive, obviously naive, because I really thought that after so many years that this Parliament would come together some new really young parties with young people who would think secularly, European, who would internalize democracy within themselves, not only when they thought it would be good for them to say something, but that it would be true – it was none of that! I'm really disappointed in these clients, really personally, deeply disappointed. Deeply disappointed that we failed to move this, that we were not really able to take this step. And then you say in the debate that we need to connect together. Yeah, let's connect. That is why, on the Committee on Justice, I said that today is an opportunity to look together at where the problem is where you personally have it, each Member, where each parliamentary group, a political party in this room has a problem with this resolution. No one had any reservations, no comments, no problem! This presentation told me everything today. I hope that she has also told the Slovenian people, as well as all the common peoples in Europe, who have fought some place to try to live in democracy, as well as in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-20-SDZ8-Izredna-20.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. With this, I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a declaration, with respect and respect. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a declaration has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 20th extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Have a nice day. Goodbye. The meeting was closed on 20 March 2019 at 15.46 p.m.
