ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! I begin the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Yuri Lep, Dr. Franc Trček, Jožef Horvat, Igor Zorčič from 16:00 on, Iva Dimic, mag. Andrej Shircelj from 13:00 on, Alenka Jeraj, Tomaž Lisec and Franz Kramar. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Government and the candidate for the Minister of Culture of Mags. Mr Zoran Poznič for the intended extension of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 16th and 16th items of the agenda, the representatives of the Council of the Court of Justice to the 16th and 16th items of the agenda, the Minister of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of mags. Ksenija Klampfer to agenda item 15 and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I welcome all those present once again! With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 22 February 2019, with reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal of the agenda item. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 5th meeting be extended by 15th, this being with the proposal of a candidate for a Minister of Culture. You received your extension proposal on Wednesday 27 February 2019. Would you like to speak to the Prime Minister, Mr. Marjan Sarec, for enlargement? No, no, no. Thank you. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Thank you. I hereby conclude this part and move on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 79 Members and Members attended, 79 votes in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will be held on Friday, 8 March 2019, in accordance with the meeting’s timetable. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and with a follow-up. We're voting. 79 Members and Members attended, 79 votes in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 5th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of a deputy or vice-president of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Ivan Hršak as a member of the selection panel for the selection of candidates for the appointment of a deputy or vice-president of the anti-corruption commission. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 43 to 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. With this we are moving, honourable Members and Members, to the examination of the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the Member of the National Assembly, Dr Dari Krajčič. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that Mr Darij Krajčič has informed me in writing on 13 February 2019 that he has resigned from the function of Member of the National Assembly. I give my word to Dr. Dari Krajčič for an explanation of his resignation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister of the Government, ministers! That day, on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly, we discussed an affair with respect to rotten meat arising from a Polish slaughterhouse. In the context of the debate, there was also a word on the control of integrity in the meat food chain. During the session, I went to one of the nearby shops for a sandwich, because I was simply hungry and was preparing a discussion in my head for the meeting. After a web of unfortunate circumstances in trade, in connection with the content of the debate on the committee, I decided unwisely – because at the meeting we discussed control – to go and thus check the completeness of the failure to control customers in trade. I left the store slowly without paying for it. I went to the meeting and discussed, among other things, that no control was perfect, as I illustrated with the event at the store. Immediately after the discussion, I returned to the store and paid for the sandwich, which, of course, I have an account with a date and an hour. Then I went back to the National Assembly and discussed again in terms of the importance of honesty as values for the functioning of society. All the other mechanisms are just a complement. It's also an insight. And since I'm honest, I paid for the sandwich, of course. The action was inappropriate, which is why I apologize. I regret the action, although I never intended to alienate the sandwich, but it was just a plastic illustration of the debate on the committee. Whoever steals, does it on purpose, does it in secret, hides, and doesn't settle the bill, but when I come to the store I certainly didn't have it in mind, nor was there any of it in this case. In fact, it was an inappropriate social experiment, closely linked to the debate in the National Assembly. On the following day, on the basis of the expectations of the LMŠ Party, I delivered a resignation statement as a Member of the National Assembly. I estimate the client's expectations were too harsh, too draconian. It's a social experiment, although it's not an inappropriate one. Nor can anyone request a derogation from the Member; the Member is completely independent in this regard, but I cannot imagine myself continuing to act as an unrelated Member in the National Assembly, since I did not come to the National Assembly alone, but on the list of LMŠ. For the same reasons, I cannot imagine that in this moment he would have crossed over into another parliamentary group, that would have been simple against my values. I'm not hiding that I've got a lot of serious calls to insist in the National Assembly, but I just can't do this for the reasons mentioned above. I apologize to my constituents and supporters, in particular in my dear Upper Savini Valley, that I could not complete my mandate because of the error I have made and the very strict expectations of the party. In this sandwich story, someone had to let go. I gave up this time, and I think that's a good idea. There have been too many sandwiches in this country, so it's better to put some other contents on the table. In my opinion, the story of the sandwich has told a great deal in our society. It was much easier to jerk billions into the bank pit than it did into my stomach this sandwich. It's a strange story, but it's a mirror of our society. From now on, I hope that society will be more just, more honest, more kind, more respectful of other people, more humble, less narcissistic, more tolerant. One of the voters asked me to mention one letter, which was also sent to the President of the Government by the people of the White Land when I helped in a story last spring when that heavy hail was there. Well, I did this service right now. Allow me at the end to express my respect, fellow Members and fellow Members, for the excellent discussions we had in this short period of my time in the National Assembly. I learned a lot from them. I must say, I enjoyed it, whether they came from positions or opposition types. I also show respect for people who are staff in the National Assembly, starting with those who are in the reception and in the security services, and in all other services of this National Assembly. And I wish you a good job together in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. I therefore note that, in accordance with the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the term of office of a Member shall expire on 4 March 2019. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly, which candidate or candidate will become a Member or Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member for the remainder of the term of office, who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Mandate-Election Commission will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the assembly. On the basis of Rule 33 and Article 200 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly is informed of the following decision: It is found that Dr Dari Krajčič, who has ceased his post as a Member, has also ceased to serve as President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to thank my respected colleague for his work so far and to wish you all the best in further work. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we shall continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Dear Members, we are moving on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 47 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2), Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government to the questions of the Ambassador of the Left Party and to the question of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek, Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, Science and Sport and Minister of Culture, Mr Samo Fakin, Minister of Health, and Mr Jure Leben, Minister of Environment and Space. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. This brings us to a presentation of the questions sent. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka will raise the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The people of Slovenia are already experiencing consequences because of your inappropriate economic policy. At the very beginning of your mandate you raised the minimum wage and that you maintained social peace you also agreed with the unions to raise salaries for public servants. At the same time, you did not provide additional funds to increase the costs incurred. As a result, public institutions raised public service prices as a result of higher wage expenditure. We are talking in particular about rising prices in kindergartens and rising prices in nursing homes. With this you have so elegantly transferred all the burden of raising wages to the users of services. And let me remind you, this is especially about the elderly, their relatives, and this is mainly about the young families, the socially weak ones, which you like to expose yourself to. Every day we can see the price of kindergarten rising. The average is between five and ten percent. What does that mean for parents? This also means up to €30 higher costs for kindergarten bills per month, that you have actually increased the burden on the municipalities, and I am not speaking. On the one hand, kindergartens, on the other hand, are up 2% on average here, also at the burden of the caregivers, their relatives, if they are not able to pay for it, and again at the burden of the congregations. Dear Prime Minister, you have been the mayor, and you know what this means especially for small congregations and what this means especially for those congregations that are already in areas that are already under-averagely developed. Of course, wages in the public sector are extremely low in many jobs. However, we could choose a completely different economic policy, one that would actually benefit all citizens and citizens, and not one that would put the burden on service users. That's why I'm interested in this place: What in particular are you going to do to prevent the burden of raising wages on users of services – here I mean especially the use of kindergarten and home for the elderly? I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you so much for asking. The change in prices from 1 January was decided by 60% of the homes for the elderly, a rise in prices that on average does not exceed 2%. You've already figured that out. We do not yet have the information on the change in supply prices applicable from 1 March 2019. In the last week of February, meetings of the boards of institutions were held at which the proposed price changes would be confirmed. Price change notices will be transmitted to the Ministry in the coming days. Since it's obvious that the government is carefree, let me tell you how the department acted. As regards price harmonisation, it called on all operators to act responsibly when setting new amounts, taking into account the revenue and expenditure shown in the 2018 business report, the planned expenditure in the 2019 financial plan and also the payment capacity of users. However, it also called on operators that had already harmonised service prices in early 2019 to decide on a further price change only if the current prices do not allow for the coverage of the planned costs or to harmonise the price elements, a general agreement for the contract year 2019 requiring the provision of additional health care funds in social institutions. As a result of the emergency austerity measures, the former governments have linearly reduced the prices of health services. This is also an over-average impact on social welfare institutions, as in the expenditure structure 80 % of health care expenditure represents labour costs. Since the second half of 2017, institutions have not been provided with sufficient resources to cover labour costs, except for material costs and depreciation. The above-mentioned general agreement recently confirmed by the Government, the increase in wages agreed with the unions, takes this into account. I'm talking about the last arrangement or promotions scheduled for this year. However, it does not cover the overall increase in labour costs resulting from all the collective agreements concluded over the past years. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Consent to the General Agreement for 2019 did not provide and proposed that additional funds be provided with Annex No 1. The Government therefore adopted, at its 20th regular meeting on 21 February, a decision on disputed issues concerning the general agreement for the 2019 contract year. In addition, it was agreed that the possible rise in the prices of services for the health care programme in social welfare institutions would be addressed under Annex 1 to the 2019 General Agreement if this could be done in the light of the available resources. With regard to the increase in the salaries of health workers, let me make it clear that these raises of older people in their homes do not burden them, as the funds for their salaries are intended for medical bills. If I touch any more salary increases. As has been explained several times before, the government expected strike demands from more than half of the public sector unions. After almost ten years of austerity measures and understanding that during the crisis there was no other way to go, making the country's expenditure at least one and a half billion lower, the labour unions were expected to demand an increase in salaries. They warned that they could not feel the end of the employee crisis. That's what they said. In the negotiations on the resolution of their very different sentences, it was important for the government to avoid a general public sector statement. This would partially paralyze public services relevant to both citizens and the economy. On the other hand, two more are equally important. That an agreement has been reached within the framework of the public financial capacity or the permissible fiscal framework and that it recognises to public servants some value, however, contrary to the criminal codes on parasites in the state nursery. As for the congregations, however, that is why we also achieved an increase in the average because we had this in mind. Of course, the congregations will still be unhappy, but from 558 to 573.5 it is still [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u7	Madam Ambassador, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you very much. First of all, the first part of your answer. If there is a real majority of the burden from the health department, here we wonder why there has been an increase in the price of services. You said yourself that 2% is on average. Finally, they also know this at the Ministry of Labour, which actually confirms these prices. If enough money were needed, probably those lifts wouldn't be necessary. When we look at the kindergarten itself, we know you were mayor, probably known, about 80% in the economic cost of kindergarten is the cost of wages. And when they raise their salaries to the public sector, it is a significantly higher cost, and simply the majority of municipalities have no choice but to let the saints know, every day, every few days, we find in the media where the prices in kindergartens have risen. [[…]] If, like you on the other hand, you speak because we know that one large share is passed on to parents, the other share is transferred to the congregations, the averages would be enough, the congregations would easily provide these funds. But let me remind you, you really raised the average, which is still essential under the law, that was November 7th, and all the other arrangements came after it. And it is simple for mayors this year to find one after the other that resources from the average are insufficient to cover statutory tasks. And last but not least, this is why the Council of State has also announced a possible veto on the adoption of the budget, because you have ignored it more than clearly. In the coalition contract on page 34, you even write about setting up a free kindergarten program and the prices of kindergartens are actually rising. I want to know: What, in particular, will you do to ensure that this will not be a burden on your parents and the congregations?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your addition. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u10	Let me mention something else: wages in the economy also rise by 5%, and pensions by 5% are also higher social transfers and minimum wages. This also means that something is increasing on the other side. In many cases, however, these incentives are not justified, as in some cases they were also encouraged by 15%. But this is far higher than 2% and I can't get rid of the feeling that now this increase in public sector wages is expected, of course, as I have said many times before, it's not something that we've invented, that we're going to raise wages. We know what the story is, and now it's an excuse to raise prices, from insurance to something else. Despite these increases, wages and burdens, as well as working conditions in nursing homes, are still very poor and therefore there is no interest in doing this work and the need for staff is increasing. It is true that at that time I called on the congregations to establish a working group, where we will examine carefully what are the tasks of the congregations, and how these tasks would otherwise be distributed or the whole problem. This would be a systemic measure that we also expect in cooperation with the municipalities to review the scope of the tasks that the municipalities have and so on. We've already said all this in November when we agreed to this agreement. That's why it's not all uniform, but we have a lot of work to do, and that's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thanks again for saying that. I am not satisfied with the response of the President of the Government, so I propose that we hold an extensive debate on this subject at the next meeting. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia thinks that this has been done by the President of the Government. We didn't know exactly what the government was going to do. It was mentioned that social transfers had risen. Yes, some are true, but many people have also fallen into higher classes, so now actually for kindergarten pay more and are still somehow worse than before your salary raise. Your economic policy in this area is wrong, you could do things in a way that would actually raise incentives for all employees to relieve wages specifically and everyone would have something to do with it. Now, on one side, you have added to your salary, and you have transferred all this burden to the account of young families, to the account of the elderly and also to the account of the municipalities. I propose that we hold an extensive debate on this subject at one of the future meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. I hereby give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers, Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues welcome! A few days ago, the Minister of the Environment, Jura Leben, resigned. We know that there have been different stories, different guesses, and other different stories from the model. I want to know: Given that you have said that Jure Leben is a good environmental minister, is it the real cause of this model affair, or is it Minister Leben who was responsible for it, or is it perhaps a story by which the active minister, the minister who began to solve problems in the field of environmental issues, had a decisive role here for the lobby, the garbage lobby and the like, who wanted to step on their fingers or make order as he guessed? I want to know: Will you also take sides with the future minister, whoever else will, in order to be able to continue this story of problem management, or will the future minister have to resign when new affairs arise when possible? We know that this area is extremely important and the problems have accumulated, that there is also a lot of money in the back to hunt in the mud is the best. And since the minister announced the change, maybe that's why he had to leave. I am interested in your opinion and how you will act in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yes, your question was expected. If you were looking at my press release, you could see the reasons I gave. There is a lot of speculation about lobbying, as Minister Leben also announced in the congregation where you live that she would have to pay for her judgment. Maybe they knocked him down from there, but I don't know, given the stuff. I wouldn't be too busy with lobbying here, whether they are or aren't. Of course, what he did at Minister Leben's Ministry certainly didn't like people. We know there was a fracking, there was even some public lobbying, and for my understanding, it was pretty rude, even on some visit. Then there are some other stories here that you've all given correctly. I expect, as I have said, that work will continue exactly as Mr Leben did. The model is a fact, and Mr Leben offered to resign precisely because he wanted to relieve this situation. The model has nothing to do with his work. As far as these tasks are concerned, you have rightly listed waste management, degraded areas and bankruptcy, climate change, building legislation, housing legislation. These are all the tasks that Minister Leben has started, and I expect the next Minister to continue. I believe that there is also a general consensus that this is the right way to start solving waste and other matters, so the answer to your question is yes. That's exactly how I expect it to go on. Lobby, if you find out about any of them, you'll be happy to report them to all the relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ambassador, would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u18	We started a retreat here today. I wonder if in other cases you'll be so strict. In this case, it was just a sandwich. And someone who admits the truth honestly says — it was stupid in my opinion — has to step down. But we know how many cases there are in Slovenia when we know who got the credits, who didn't return them, who was responsible for what job, banks, state-owned companies. I want to know: Will you be so strict in such cases when it comes to appointing supervisors, directors, state-owned companies? You mentioned the municipality of Moravče where we have problems with waste. I do not think that the congregation was the one that encouraged Minister Lebn's resignation, but it was in the Moravče municipality that we expected Mr Leben to help solve our problems. Unfortunately, there's a lot of real lobbying involved, a lot of money going around here, and not his forecast of analysis, because the analysis is unfortunately very bad. What you said you would stand by the future minister too, I expect, because in the case of Minister Lebn, he was not accused, but you accepted his resignation. I expected if you thought he was that good, if he was solving the real problems, I'd back him up. And I don't know what criteria you're going to use in the future, and I'm wondering if you're going to do the same for everyone, or if you're going to run out of even a few shots, because each one of us has made a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u20	Yes, thank you. Here you compare some things that may not always be comparable. You say it's a sandwich, maybe it's not just a sandwich, but maybe it's a people's representative, because he had to wait a little too long, so he took something out of the store. And there are already cases on social networks when citizens – just yesterday I followed one – went out and said, "We didn't pay anything, but why should we." In short, examples are drawn, and if you're a functionary, you pay for what you take away from the store. Here I think that the Member has done the right thing, but this does not mean that the story is concluded for him and that he will never get another chance, for sure. We all make mistakes, we all make mistakes, and we all make mistakes, and I agree with you. However, as far as the stories you mentioned are concerned, these stories include, above all, past mandates and as far as the supervisory councils are concerned, and this has already been said a lot. Surely, I hope that once there too will begin to unfold differently and that we will explore all those things behind us. I believe that you will start your work quickly and that you will also be effective, because, last but not least, we have all given you support in this. As far as other evaluations are concerned, this is more so – it is possible to judge from a distance from the couch. Once in a position, you make up your mind, sometimes right, sometimes a little less right, sometimes even wrong, but you can't compare uncomparable things. Once again, the work at the Ministry of Environment and Space must continue as it began. After fifteen or even more years, I hope to say that the Minister has done what is right, but some things are not comparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ambassador, would you like a word? No, no, no. This brings us to the question of Mr Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u22	Mr President, the Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, all present, good afternoon! The Council is rapidly preparing for a new financial and economic crisis that has just affected our Slovenia. This economic crisis is inevitable, at least that's what professional economists all over the world call it. The last crisis has been very painful in Slovenia, and we must also be prepared for the crisis. I hope that the Slovenian Government is aware of the seriousness of the current economic world situations and the situation and that it has ready answers. I want to know: When does the Slovenian government estimate that there is a new global financial crisis, and does the Slovenian government have a crisis plan? The Slovenian economy is so much more sensitive because it is only connected to certain markets, particularly to Europe. I want to know: How will the Slovenian government help to expand to foreign markets in order to then reduce the crisis in the event of a crisis and mitigate it in Slovenia? Not the right, world economists predict the deterioration of the euro's currency, even its break. I want to know: Do we have a new currency in our reserve? Debt of the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia on 31. 12. 2018 amounts to EUR 29,181 million or 63,8 % of GDP. I wonder if, of course, you have an estimate of what the debt will be on day 31. 12. 2020. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Yeah, you got it right. There's a major crisis behind us. Practically a 10-year period is behind us, which has blocked practically everything. There were also austerity measures and everything else. Tomorrow we will say more about the balance and we have also heard that it is not preparing the country for the crisis. I remember one quote that why would you treat with antibiotics if we don't have angina yet, from 2008. That government didn't exactly prepare us for a crisis at the time. But I must say that the situation today is different. We've got companies in charge today. Companies are also significantly healthier than they were at the time of overheating, when everything was done on some credits on pretty eyes, as they say. And when some in greed after taking over businesses, how to have more, bought shares very expensively, then the stock prices collapsed and it is clear that everything went into francs. These were a variety of large systems that had collapsed and so on. Today we have a different picture in companies. Our current total public debt is €32 billion, our goal this year is to reach 66% of GDP. In reducing our debt, we are among the first in Europe, so the last assignment, not for current consumption, as some have already managed to fill, but was made for debt management or domestic debt reprogramming. It is very important for us not to get into any worse situation than we do. We've got the other picture. At the time, the country was less indebted to companies than it was to companies, and today it is different. But as for these predictions, when the crisis, even when you get in the car, you probably don't even talk about how you're going to crash, but you talk about how you're going to get to the goal and drive in your right mind. True, economic growth is getting a little chilly, but this does not mean that we are already in recession and that we are already in the negative, as we have sometimes had up to a minus 8% decline in economic growth. We follow all these things and we are well aware of them. About the fall of the euro or the break of the euro, that's speculation. No one in Europe has ever mentioned anything like that that could have happened. The European Commission and these institutions are also better prepared today for a possible new event, so that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is very closely monitoring the situation and will also respond appropriately to the possible cooling of the economy. But it is a truly cyclical thing, and it is natural that not always percentages can only grow, but they also begin to fall sometimes. But right now we're still there, so we don't have to talk about any catastrophic scenarios. But we are very well aware of the situation, certainly because we depend both on the world's developments, the events in Europe, the various customs wars, and we know what some in the world are doing, so that we can be worried. I agree with that very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u26	Mr President of the Government, you have answered everything in general that you have not actually answered anything, you have just been talking about a traffic accident. I want to know where this accident will turn us down if it comes to her. That's an interesting question. You have never, let's say, a crisis plan, or the new markets I mentioned, whether we have a future in any other market, or at the final stage, what our debt will be like in 2020. I wanted to hear the math. Thank you very much. If there's anything else you can tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you. Well, I wasn't talking about the accident, I was talking about something else, although for some, I'm an accident by myself. However, I said that the last debt charge that was for active debt management would fall to 66% of GDP next year, and then we would like to come to the Maastricht criterion 60% in the coming years. That's our goal. When you mention foreign markets, of course we are also actively working on diversification of exports, this is essential, not only on the European market, but also on the market of so-called third countries. That's what this is all about. The combination also with maintaining domestic consumption. All of this is important, but domestic consumption cannot save us because we are a small market, and this can only be so little to add. The government and the Ministry of Economy are actively working on foreign markets. Like I said, it's not all up to us. You know, our economic growth curve is very similar to the countries to which we export most. But there is, of course, another big stranger called brexit. There, too, are virtually in a strange situation, where it is not well - known, how it will all work out. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia assures you that it actively monitors all developments and also carries out such activities so that the next cooling of the economy will be ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, it's your last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u30	Yeah, one more time. Mr President of the Government, I am still not satisfied with what you have said. It's nice to hear you're watching, but you haven't answered my specific questions. I would therefore like to have a discussion under Article 276 at the next meeting, and I am exercising this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. This brings us to the next question. Mr. Luka Moon, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Mr. Prime Minister, last week your finance minister, Andrej Bertoncel, presented the tax reform. That looks good at first sight. It places a slightly higher burden on capital, which is true because it is among the least burdened among comparable European countries in Slovenia and, on the other hand, relieves wages. But here's the problem. The Minister of Finance says we're supposed to relieve the most productive, but the calculations show the next picture. Who are the most productive by this definition? For example, Renata, a manufacturing master who earns €850 a month, will receive 2.6 euros a month after tax reform, so it is difficult to classify her as the most productive. The same goes for, say, Igor, the administrator who earns a thousand euros a month. This one will get the bad nine euros more. Janez, a development engineer who earns a thousand and a half Euros 460, will receive 13 euros more. Marusha, a programmer with a thousand 977 euros, will receive 19 euros more. The most productive after this tax reform are the following. For example, a member of the National Assembly with 2 000 791 euros a month will earn the poor 60 euros more. Do we have to go up the ladder? What a well-paid doctor with 6,000 euros of net salary will earn 100 euros more, such as Blaž Brodnjak, president of the NLB administration, who has increased his salary by half a million a year after privatisation and 41,000 euros a month, and will receive 70 times more than that master Renata in production, says EUR 186 a month. Therefore, the draft tax reform does not relieve the lower layer, they receive a change of about 2.3 euros a month. It does not relieve the medium layer, says between a thousand and 2,000 euros of wages, they get between 9 and 19 euros, it relieves exclusively those who have already been burdened twice in the previous term, it is said that a few percent of the best paid, where the managers, the best paid doctors, officials and so on, are paid. That is why I am addressing you, Mr. Prime Minister, with the question: Do you agree with this tax reform? In view of the fact that you have gained a reputation in previous months as someone who has helped improve the situation or prosperity in Slovenia by bringing together a minimum wage and social assistance, you have agreed with the unions in the public sector and so on, why not set a goal, say, that most of the wages in this country exceed the thousands of euros as soon as possible, since at present there are up to two thirds of the wages below a thousand and 70 euros per month in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr President, the word is yours again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you so much for asking. It should be said that, at the time of this change, we have also joined this class, where people with minimum wages are, because at the time of the introduction of the increase in the minimum wage, they have fallen into an unfavourable relationship. And we are also correcting this with this reform. So the minimum wage has caused some problems and not all of them have been solved and we are also dealing with this reform. The aim of these corrections that we have made is, above all, to relieve the middle class. The middle class is the one we want to relieve, and that's why I find it difficult to agree that we're only raising the rich now. How many in Slovenia are those who are truly rich?Oh, my God! You mentioned the MPs. It can, I don't know, it can't get any higher, because it won't get any worse after that logic. But you've now listed some of those isolated cases. The highest rate, however, is those who belong to the so-called middle class, and we want to help. Corrections go in this direction that if employers maintain the same rate of payment, then the employer will also get more. As far as low wages are concerned, the state cannot solve all of this. Above all, higher wages will also be when we have higher added value and, therefore, in other areas, we also need to promote production that makes this higher added value possible. So the problem here is a little bit broader. It's certainly not the goal that we're going to be, I don't know, somewhere, creating a class of rich people, and I don't know what, but it's definitely this middle class. A person with an average salary of EUR 144 will have more income per year. However, it is also here in these corrections primarily to relieve the regression, where, as long as the employer devotes the regression, the employee will also get the amount. I think that this is also one of the measures that will have a positive impact on employees. Once again, because of the minimum wage, some have fallen into an inadequate income class, we have also had to make amends in this area. So maybe there wasn't a problem there either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u36	Unfortunately, Prime Minister, I cannot agree with your thesis that this reform is burdening the middle class. I've already illustrated cases for you, so let me show you now graphically. According to most definitions, the middle class is between 75% of the average wage, according to us a poor 800 euros, and two times the average wage, according to us there is 2 000 100 euros. Here you can see that these people's wages are practically not increasing. The real jump takes place only above the average wage twice, which is no longer the middle class, which is the upper middle class. I repeat, these people have already been fired twice in their previous term, and I do not understand why 270 million heavy tax burdens would be put there in the first place. Why don't we direct it to people who have 800, 900, 1000 euros, 1100 or 1200 and 1,400 wages if you want. They need help. I agree with your line, work has to be paid, I agree, it has to be paid, but people who already earn 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 euros a month are already paid off. And we have to make sure that the work is paid to everyone. When we talk about engineers, they also have to be worth it, but they are not in this class over EUR 2 000 500 or 3 000 – here I will read it to you – according to the data from the Finance of the 10 years of construction work earn from EUR 1200 to EUR 1500. They are missing this reform. They'll get a 10-euro circus raise to pay. I'm asking you: Why don't we set ourselves a different target in this reform, why don't we really burden the lower and middle wages because they need the country's extra attention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u37	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u38	The burden is the same as this country can afford it publicly. But when you also talk about the amount of wages, of course, work that has higher added value is certainly also paid higher. We agree, however, that if some people do not pay their employees in the same way as they should, then there is little the country can do about it. Again, I repeat, because I said that this tax optimisation is intended for the middle class, but it is set up to allow for further fiscal sustainability, because on the one hand we have to look at public finances and on the other hand we have to look at that the employees will have some of it and that the work will also be paid. Of course, we continue to discuss some details, for sure, but I would not operate on how rich he is, because in Slovenia there are few who are in the highest grade.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u40	I agree with that, Prime Minister. Indeed, there is little higher class and also your reform is essentially set at 10% of the best paid in this country. That's why I'm talking, you say, we're aiming for the middle class, but you're shooting there instead. I would like to make a request for a general debate, because we need to talk about who to relieve in this country, who to whom work is not worth it now, and it should be worth it. Also about these mantras, which we hear repeatedly, that if we reward those who create higher added value, then people who earn less will be better off for such and other reasons. That's what they call a tickle-down effect in America. But it looks like this, there was some kind of graphics on the Internet where they put the glasses in the pyramid. And the logic of this tickle-down effect is that if we pour it into the highest glass, once it's filled, the wine begins to flow into the rest of the glasses. But what actually happens is that this glass increases and nothing comes into the others. It's not a joke. If you look at what has happened to the wealth of the last 20, 30 years, when they have approached tax reforms in this way, you will see that the upper percentage of the population has only been inflatable and the middle class has collapsed. That is why I am calling first on the Prime Minister, now to the National Assembly, to discuss who tax reform needs to relieve us, who needs to be paid for, and is not worth it. And if I make one more argument, why should I target people with lower wages? See, if you give extra money to a man who earns 800 euros or a thousand 200 euros, there is a high probability that he will also spend that money in the domestic economy. So it's going to go to local merchants, innkeepers, in wages, something's going to come back through taxes. However, if you give a raise to Blaž Brodnjak, I doubt that at 41,000 euros he will even notice the additional 200 euros in the account. I doubt even more that this money will be spent in a way that will be productive for the domestic economy. He will either go to luxury spending or, what managers are doing now, buy apartments in Ljubljana, rent them or in Airbnb, thereby exacerbating the housing problem for generations who currently cannot afford housing. Here we are discussing how to lead this country's social policy, how much Slovenia will be a social state in two, three, four years' time. I want to hold a thorough debate on this before the reform is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal on Wednesday. I give my word to Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Your government, our common government, in which our SAB is also a party, has, after many years of crisis and then some kind of financial consolidation has finally been able to take some measures that individuals also feel. Today they have been mentioned many times: raising minimum wages, raising social contributions, the average of municipalities and also higher salaries for public servants. We have also done a number of things for the pensioners: we have reintroduced regular and extraordinary coordination of pensions and paid an annual allowance of five. Nevertheless, there are still too many pensioners who still cannot live in a safe and dignified autumn of their age. Many do not even have basic necessities, let alone pay for care at home for the elderly or at home. And that's just not right. This is the task of the pension system, as it has been introduced in the last decades in all democratic countries, and it is also a demonstration of the functioning of the social state. These are our parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles who have already sacrificed their jobs for this society, and now the power to work is simply gone and they need to ensure what they deserve. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we were not a member of the government coalition, so we invested so much more energy in talking to people. Two things you kept saying in these conversations. One is the problems people experience with the health system, especially the long waiting line, and the problems of pensioners, including future and, in particular, those who are trying to survive. Therefore, these two things have also been highlighted as our priorities in the pre-election period. That was the reason. Not that anyone among us thinks they have a priority over pensioners. When we made up the coalition contract – I think you were there all along – we insisted, surely remember that three things are being introduced and that they are also time-bound in this coalition contract. First, to allow pensioners who want to do so and who are able to work further and thus improve their social situation. Secondly, the annual allowance should return to the level it was before the crisis and be paid at two levels. And thirdly, to increase the rate of the future pensioners. I ask you nicely for an answer, Prime Minister: When can we expect these commitments, which we have jointly entered into a coalition agreement, to be fulfilled? Do you have any more information on how to implement them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you for asking. Although recent projections show that we have a pension system in the country that will last for several years, we need to prepare ourselves for the challenges of an ageing society today. It's time to think about it when, I'll say, you're at our age, when we think we're going to be for a long time, and in fact, we're already at the end of the hour, as far as retirement and old age is concerned, which is what beats us, and sometimes we're not aware of it. A key challenge remains how to adapt public finances to the cost of ageing. The number of pensioners by 2070 is projected to increase by about 20 per cent, from 616 thousand in 2016 to 736 thousand, as estimated in 2070. These are the ratings, the question is, what happens then? I'll be gone for sure. They won't need a pension for me then. New projections for the period 2016 to 2030 show that ageing expenditure would increase from 22% to 28% of GDP. And these are trends that are not only problems in Slovenia, but also pose a serious threat across Europe, in all European countries. Even today, the state is interfering with its transfer to the pension register. Approximately a billion euros a year to cover the difference between contributions paid and pensions paid. Pensions will be strengthened to EUR 5.5 billion this year, an increase of about 4% on the income and expenditure side. The relationship between labour and the rest of the population is currently improving with high economic growth, but not sufficiently. So I agree with you that not all pensioners get what they deserve for their past work. Decent pensions are certainly the priority of this government, not just one party, the whole government, at least I hope so. The long-term stability of the pension system will only be ensured by measures to improve this situation. However, we must always look here at fiscal sustainability. Of course it's nice for the pensioners to say this and you'll get this, but we have to make sure of that somewhere. The reconciliation of pensions by 2.7% from 1 January costs almost EUR 137 million. And that's not the last increase, there's going to be another rise. Then the pension will be about 4% higher. For 500 euros, this means a higher pension of 21 euros at the end of the year, and 800 euros at the end of the year is higher by 34 euros, which, of course, is not much for an average pensioner. He knows very little about this in his wallet, but the budget is very burdensome because, as I mentioned earlier, we have 616 thousand pensioners. Therefore, for a number of years, annual pension allowances have been subject to coordination linked to the budgetary situation of both the State and the pension funds, of course, on a case-by-case basis. This year's annual allowance will be higher for all pensioners than last year. However, the scope of the funds is the same after many years before the adoption of Zujf. If I look, of course, we've solved some of these problems. But the bigger problem, as I said, will be a long-term sustainable system. This also means moving the retirement age and that young people will sooner enter the labour market and leave it later. It is our essential problem to enter the labour market too late and leave it too late. But when I spoke to the Danish Prime Minister, he even said that they would increase to 75 years of age to have projections, so I don't know how people will survive it, but the whole of Europe has these problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ambassador, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President of the Government. With a lot of things you said, I agree. It's an extremely complex problem, challenges for an ageing society. As you said, the number of pensioners is rising. 620,000 people are a significant part of our country's population and things need to be changed. But I'm talking here about some agreement that we've concluded by all the parties to the ruling coalition that we've written down and signed. However, there are many people in our country, 16% of pensioners who do not even have pensions to the poverty line, and 60% of pensioners are pensioners up to €600. So we're talking about a really large number of people who are hard to live, and they've already contributed to this society. And as we all know, pensions are not a social transfer, they're a payment for past work. At the end of the year, the dispute we had, you will recall, was only because we had a small number of requests in our client — three in this regard, insisting that they be entered into a coalition contract, even being the only ones we asked for dates, so that these changes would have been introduced at the beginning of the 1st century. 1. 2019. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, but something was done, and I admit it. Therefore, as Prime Minister of the Government and the leaders of this team, I ask you, one word, to assure us when, in what time frame, we can expect these three commitments, which we have signed by all coalition parties, to be fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u48	Yes, thank you. Of course, the Ministry prepares a set of these measures or prepares the starting points for the revisions of the Law of ZPIZ. Of course, there is a proposal for changes in the direction of raising the dose percentage, one for both men and women, also taking into account this commitment under the agreement, so that the 40-year dose percentage will be set at least 63%, while at the same time a higher percentage and care for children will be recognised. However, these increases will be extended over the years, because we have to, I will again point to fiscal sustainability, stability. If we don't have public finances stable, then everything will be in vain. The increase in the percentage of doses will, of course, result in higher social security for beneficiaries of invalidity, widowal and family pensions and disability benefits. The starting points they are preparing at the Ministry, of course, also include one very important issue, which is the so-called dual status. It is said that pensioners can also work and, of course, pay all contributions. The Ministry is preparing this, and when the matter is ripe for public debate, we will also do it. So it's working on that, or especially on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u49	I thank the President of the Government for the answers given and, therefore, honourable Members and Members, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 2nd and 4th meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, will answer Mr Franz Breznik's question about regulating the situation of tourist farms. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u50	Dear Presidents, honourable Members, distinguished fellow Ministers, a nice welcome from me too! Allow me to answer another question from the second session. So, to the question raised by Mr Franz Breznik, I give the following answer. It is true that the amendment to the Agriculture Act in 2017 provided that the words of the farm in its title should not be used by those agricultural holdings which act in the form of espionage or share in their status form. Thus, agricultural holdings which are registered as s.p. or d.o.o. must carry out tourism activities in this form and not as farms in the form of complementary activities. The complementary activity on farms is indeed an activity that enables farmers to make better use of production opportunities, the labour force of the farm and the acquisition of additional income on farms. It is crucial to point out that these farms are limited to the scope of their operations and have specific requirements to do so, and therefore they also express this in their title. The annual income of these farms from the farm’s complementary activities must not exceed three average annual wages per employee in the Republic of Slovenia in the previous year and in areas with limited agricultural opportunities must not exceed five average annual wages per employee in the Republic of Slovenia in the previous year. In addition, there are other restrictions for them. In his question, Mr Breznik notes the problems of the farm in Styria, which is using farm tourism and, according to his information, is considering the complete abandonment of activities. Thus, problems on such farms that carry out their activities in the form of espionage or share occur when these farms exceed capacity limits and have therefore been transformed into espas and have kept in the title the name of the farm, which, as already mentioned, is not permitted by the amendment of the 2017 Agricultural Law. Therefore, those who are espe have no restrictions on the number of rooms and the number of seats for excursion tourism or guests, even though they are engaged in agricultural activities and have mainly their crops, which, of course, applies to farms carrying out complementary activities and are limited by certain numbers which represent a restriction for them. In short, the name of the farm may be used in tourist activities and other complementary activities only those which are actually natural persons, farms and are not espouses or parts. What is a farm, the Agriculture Act defines precisely, and this is certainly not espa. In the case referred to by the Member, the agricultural holding has 60 seats, which exceeds the maximum allowed number in the context of carrying out the complementary activity and must therefore be in the form of an espionage or a share thereof. The purpose of such regulation in the law is to separate who does the activity as a farm, and these are usually relatively small farms, it is said, when this farm does it as a complementary activity and when it is the same activity, but in a different legal status and, of course, under different conditions that are not bound by the restrictions mentioned above. From the point of view of the consumer, this information is important and, of course, we do not plan to amend legislation in this area. The Regulation on minimum technical conditions for the scope of services for the provision of catering activities provides for the provision of catering activities on farms which are tourist farms in accordance with the Regulation on complementary activities on farm. In Article 66, Article 66 of the Agriculture Act lays down the prohibition of misleading. Similarly, the amendment to Article 686 of the Economic Company Act, which introduced a company offence, provides that it has in the company additional components which signify the company in such a way as to contaminate or possibly mislead it. A transitional period has been set for the conversion of espaes and parts of farms and for the registration of their complementary activities, and from this point of view we believe that there is no reason for them to consider amending legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I note that due to the absence of Minister Juret Lebn, there will be no answer to Mr Tomaž Lisca and Mr Sam Bevk's questions. This brings us to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. You have the floor, Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Unfortunately, the Minister of Health is not with us today, but about a month ago I asked him a written question and because I have not yet received an answer, I decided to ask him orally. In recent times, in view of publicly exposed cases, we have begun to face again more intensively the problem of lack of family medicine specialists. Doctors themselves warn, probably also Members, ministers when you go to the examination, you see how burdened these doctors are, and therefore point out that the quality of their services is also questioned. Invitations for specialization of family doctors indicate a drop in interest. Older doctors are retiring, and young people are not overly motivated by the health - care situation. There is a failure of the working relationship due to overload and there are no new doctors in the field of family medicine. I come from the Municipality of Vipava and we also face similar problems in Vipava. Now, in some ways, this lack of family doctors is overcome, but there are still problems here. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How will you solve the problem of lack of family medicine doctors? I would like to ask you here to specifically state the measures. Have you considered increasing the invitation to tender for the specialization of family medicine? How do you plan to solve problems in smaller places, such as Vipava? And I would ask, given that the Minister is not with us today, that he should meet me at a future meeting or at one of the future meetings, because we never know whether he will be present or not, answer orally. Of course, I will also expect a written answer in the meantime, since I should have done so by law or by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We will expect the Minister's reply at the next meeting. This brings us to the 10th question of Mr Alexander Rebersk. Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! In the New Slovenia Group, we were informed that the illegal crossings of the state border between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia in the wider area, which is restricted to Ilirska Bistrica in the west and the north, Kočev in the east, are taking place again throughout the winter 2018/2019. Illegal migrants return to the Republic of Slovenia in the light of the pleasant winter and with the help of local smugglers, and then continue their journey towards Western countries. At the same time, they leave behind huge amounts of clothes, sleeping bags, backpacks, various batteries and other waste. These wastes destroy the natural environment of snow forests and nomadic forests, while hazardous waste also poses a risk of environmental pollution. Various municipalities are currently engaged in cleaning and cleaning in various ways. This is sometimes done by local utilities, sometimes by police officers. In any event, the disposal of these wastes becomes an unsustainable financial burden for the congregations there. We are familiar with a specific case where workers at one location have picked up over a ton and a half of such waste by cleaning. I'm asking you: Are you familiar with this phenomenon? Do you feel that the financial burden on the disposal of these wastes falls on local communities, which are neither responsible for this pollution nor have the resources they could use to do so? Which of your ministries is responsible for solving this problem, and how will you solve it? I ask for a time-limit and your specific commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Sir or Madam Minister? Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u56	Dear Member, allow an answer as far as is within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Of course, we asked our forestry inspection as well as our poor foresters about the issue. And allow some information we got from them. The forestry inspection, under the control of the forest area, has found that municipal waste occasionally occurs on individual roads in the forest area with the Republic of Croatia. These are mostly discarded clothes and shoes. Pursuant to Article 157.a of the Environmental Protection Act, which regulates the action in the case of illegal waste, the municipal inspection shall order the disposal of municipal waste. Where municipal waste is illegally disposed of on land owned by a country or municipality, it shall be ordered by the municipal inspection of public service operators to dispose of municipal waste and shall dispose of it in accordance with the rules on waste management. Where municipal waste is illegally deposited on land owned by a private right person, it shall order the disposal of such waste by municipal inspection to the owner or other owner of the land. Our forest inspectors have resigned from the competent municipal inspection for forest waste because it is municipal waste, mostly waste that is not attributed to migrants. As far as poor foresters are concerned, there is an increase in these wastes in the district units of Postojna, bordering the Republic of Croatia, and in the last year also an increase in the disposal of waste by illegal migrants at border crossings, especially in the areas of the municipalities of Ilirska Bistrica, slightly smaller Loška Valley. Some of these wastes are also disposed of by rebreeded foresters, and part of them is detected by police officers on the ground. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, indeed, the pleasant winter actually increases the migration flow from the region and the pressure on the Slovenian Schengen border to the southern border. Smuggling illegal migrants across the state border is led by individual smugglers and criminal associations and police have successfully prevented this smuggling. I must also say that there has been a dispersion of points in the Republic of Slovenia this year. If we said last year that 90% of illegal migration in the police administration was Novo mesto and Koper, this year we are being opened by the Ljubljana Police Administration and Maribor. This means that smugglers and illegal migrants are looking for crossings across the state border along the entire state border. I must also say that the waste problem is detected and recorded by the police and reported to the competent services. Especially in the nomadic and snow forests, some of these discarded clothes and waste are recorded. I can't talk about a bigger amount, because the police don't have any information about it. However, the police were informed of the finding of fewer clothes in the Cerknica Police Station, where the transport was provided by the competent service, and in Kočevsko there are two cases of these found waste. True, the police have actually been informed about these wastes lying in the woods, and I have also sent a report to the Government when I visited the municipality of Črnomelj, and I believe that we will find an appropriate solution in the coming months or days. It is true, however, that the police and the Ministry of the Interior are not responsible for the removal and cleaning of these wastes and are in fact reported to the competent services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much. However, most of the time they spent on describing the situation, not how you will save it and "in a few months". I expect specific solutions from you. The fact is, these things are coming to these landfills. And we can't afford to take this to the congregations. So once again, I would like to ask you: Who's gonna be the mercenary of this? Who's actually going to remove that? Above all, who will bear the financial consequences of all this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u61	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u62	In particular, I would like to explain that I have said that this is defined in the Environmental Protection Act. This is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and probably not the internal one. But as we say, we do what is within our jurisdiction. Thus, we perceive these wastes, we report them to the competent municipal services, and then, of course, their conduct is further defined in the law I mentioned. But it is true, as has already been said, that in a number of cases this cleaning is done by police officers and our poor foresters on the ground, in fact without any application.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador? Thank you very much. This brings us to 11 questions, that is the question of Mr Željek Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I am talking about children with special needs who have the right of an escort designated by the steering commission in the guidance decision and in these decisions. Decisions on guidance for 408 children in Slovenia are still not implemented and individualised plans prepared in schools are not implemented on the basis of these decisions. I am Minister of Education, Dr. Jerne Piccoll, at his hearing 4. 9. six months ago, before his appointment as Minister, he pointed out this problem. And the Minister assured the Education Committee that the decisions would be fully implemented under his ministry. This is still not happening, and this is completely contrary to what the White Paper on Education and Education, adopted in 2011, shows between pages 275-329 of the National Mental Health Programme adopted by this National Assembly last year. And also with regard to what the Ombudsman wrote in this issue, the demands on the Ministry. So, Minister, I ask: Mr Minister, on the basis of your commitments, I expect you, on a legal basis, on the basis of which you are already implementing the Guidance Decisions and on the basis of the Guidance Decision and individualised plans, to start immediately funding children with the necessary escorts. And secondly, I ask you for written information: How many children with guidance decisions who have the right to a temporary assistance companion to carry out physical assistance, the Ministry of Education finances this and in what proportions? Since this is a cumulative number of data, without names, can be given, it is 408 children and the protection of personal data will not be affected here because no name will be mentioned. In short, I ask for this written answer in addition to the first question that the Minister is likely to give me orally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We're moving on to the 12th. Mr. Edward Paulich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Rest! According to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the small economy represents over 98% of the total Slovenian economy. In 2017, this segment generated 68% of revenue, a good 43% of exports and employed almost three quarters of people, thus representing an important segment of the Slovenian economy. Members of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government have recently considered a coalition proposal to appoint several State Secretaries, including the appointment of a State Secretary for the Small Economy. The last proposal was rejected by the opposition for reasons of voting on all State secretaries at the same time and the opposition disagreed with all those appointed. In addition to the coalition members of the committee, some opposition members expressed support for the appointment of the Secretary of State for the Small Economy. In view of the above, I ask you, Your Honor Minister: What is your position on the appointment of the Secretary of State for the Small Economy? How do you intend to help this segment of the economy within the department? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u68	Dear assembly, distinguished Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear Member, Mr Edward Paulic, thank you very much for the question. The appointment of the Secretary of State for the Small Economy would certainly welcome the appointment, as the appointment would give a much greater symbolic significance to this area. I have always supported the proposal for appointment, and at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology we are aware of the challenges of this work in the economy and we support the development of a small economy with many measures. Despite the rejection of the bill, however, there is no substantive change in this area, since we are already giving appropriate attention to small, medium-sized enterprises and support measures. Almost all public calls and public calls by the Ministry include small and medium-sized enterprises as the main target group which has the opportunity to run for the tender. From 2016 to today, almost EUR 845 million of cohesion and integration funds were thus awarded, which could be applied for by small and medium-sized enterprises. All of this represents the majority of all the Ministry's resources. There is also a special priority axis within the European Cohesion Policy, which is intended exclusively for small and medium-sized enterprises. By setting up the financial instruments funds, up to EUR 135 million of additional funds, repayments and equity funding will be available exclusively for small and medium-sized enterprises by 2023. It is worth mentioning that for a supportive environment and ways of giving incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises, we have a special law, the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. With the last amendment to this law, we have improved opportunities to support small and medium-sized enterprises. By 2018, small and medium-sized enterprises had been given a number of financial incentives to support over a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises per year, to create around 2 000 new jobs, to maintain about 20,000 jobs and to increase the added value of open businesses by an average of 4% per year. We have encouraged about €200 million of investment in small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are also provided with free support environment services and various programmes to promote businesses and entrepreneurship, such as the four-level system of Slovenian business points – SPOT and free services for selected players of the innovative environment. With a view to simplifying and bringing them closer to the smallest, this year we are also introducing small-value incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called vouchers, as we will repeat the call for microcredit and guarantees for bank loans with interest rate subsidies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the fourteenth question. Mr. Dushan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you. Your Honor! On 22 January this year, the Minister attended the 12th meeting of the Interstate Commission to monitor the implementation of the Treaty between the Governments of Slovenia and Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations associated with the investment in the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. After the meeting, she told the media that the Krška Nuclear Power Plant was operating extremely well and that she had made progress with regard to the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste at the meeting with Croats. As an illustration of success, the re-meeting of the Interstate Commission for September was announced. The Slovenian public could understand from the statement that in relation to the issue of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and in particular with regard to the disposal of low- and medium-radioactive waste, cooperation with Croats runs without problems, but this is not the case. It is true that the power plant is working successfully and safely so far, but in the Slovenian National Party we believe that we cannot and must not separate it from the issue of radioactive waste and from the actual or potential impact of the power plant on the environment. As can be seen from the minutes of the coordination committee appointed by the Commission in November 2017, the views on the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant are very different between Croatian and Slovenian members. Moreover, it is clear from the common positions that our experts on the landfill for radioactive waste at the site in Vrbina have agreed to solutions that are in no way variable for Slovenia and especially for Krka. That's why I'm asking: Why did the Minister mislead the Slovenian public with her positive assessments of relations with Croatia regarding the issue of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste? I want to get an oral answer at one of the next meetings, because today, unfortunately, as we see, there are no chairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We'll let the Minister know. The next question is the question of Mr Predrag Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, dear Minister! Private security services have been facing a major human resources problem for a long time since entities carrying out security tasks that are not provided by the State have been humanely fed. This certainly has no good effect on the quality of the work done, and this is particularly reflected in the general state of security in the country. These entities also have an increasing direct impact on the state of general security, which in particular strengthens their role and situation in this area. Therefore, to the competent ministers, i.e. for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities and for internal affairs, I refer to the question of the Member State, which reads as follows: Does Article 27a of the Labour Market Regulation Act have elements of a working relationship as defined by the law governing working relationships? Is it possible for pensioners to carry out work under the temporary and occasional work contract also in the field of protection? Actually, I'm curious: If applicable legislation in the area of private protection of pensioners, of course those with appropriate competences, makes it impossible to carry out temporary or occasional work, do you intend to settle this issue at the legal level or in any other way, and when? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. With the introduction of the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, all pensioners, except those who receive a partial old or early retirement pension, were also partially active, and temporary and occasional work was also allowed. Temporary or occasional work shall be carried out on the basis of a contract for the performance of temporary or occasional work as a specific civil contract relationship between the employer and the beneficiary, which may also have certain elements of the working relationship as provided for by the Labour Relations Act. The pensioner may thus, in agreement with the employer, enter into a contract for the performance of temporary or temporary work, in which, inter alia, the period of work and the number of hours indicated, the hourly item for the work performed and the estimated total amount of income is also established. Notwithstanding the foregoing, I would like to point out that the Ministry is not inclined to extend such exceptions to specific rules, since, in terms of the safety of workers and the transparency of the legal order, it is important that a general rule is in place that all elements of the labour relationship exist in relation to all rights and obligations arising from it and carried out under the employment contract. From the point of view of the work of the pensioners, we also add that the starting points that we are preparing at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also include solutions to upgrade the simultaneous receipt of pensions and income from work that allow pensioners to receive pensions on condition of payment of all contributions to social security after meeting certain conditions, i.e. age and retirement. These changes will be presented to the coalition Members in the next two weeks and then forwarded to the social partners in the Economic and Social Council. The deadline for transmission of the regulation to regulate the content listed in the National Assembly shall be the first half of 2019. The fact is that there is a temporary and occasional work of pensioners for work where it is lawful under law to have certain elements of the working relationship. However, it should be added that, with regard to the reasons for determining the legal basis on which regulated activities can be carried out and the possible changes to the arrangements, only those institutions which regulate this activity may be identified in the case of the Private Protection Act, namely the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to the next question. The word is your Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we have heard about these pensioners in some of the questions sent and then the answers. It was said what else would be done for the pensioners. Let me say, as a starting point, that such questions are rather funny to me and at the same time sad, given that, after the possibility of doing anything, there is a different vote. And I'll explain. This is so-called raising of care in pension homes. Of course, we are not talking about this subject to politicians, but the pensioners themselves have warned about it. As you know, it has somehow begun to circulate within the home of pensioners and also their relatives petitions for a dignified age, which is now signed by both those who are providers and their families. In it, however, you were clearly highlighted, Minister, or your ministry, to respond in particular to this group of citizens and citizens most at risk. They made it clear that we cannot go to the streets, of course, we cannot protest because health and our age do not allow it. That's why I'm even sadder when I listened to the Prime Minister earlier, who said, "Of course we had to raise our wages, but otherwise we'd have protests." I don't agree with that. They raise their wages because they have to because someone's living badly, not to avoid protests. Well, that's a generation that can't protest. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed in the budget rebalancing that part of the amount, approximately €5 million, be transferred in order not to raise these supplies, and all coalition parties with the super-coalic Levica voted against. Thus, we also wanted to help the ministry to overcome this problem in this way too, so it is even more sad that I am listening to today's question by Alenka Bratušek, what will be done for the pensioners if they voted two days ago against a measure that would actually help. And now I really want to know, Minister: Given the balance of the budget and the amounts that are within the framework, what can you really do for this?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. With regard to your question, I would like to point out in the introduction that, over the last period, the fundamental mechanisms of the social state have been strengthened, after six years, all austerity measures in the area of social and family policy have been abolished, social and social security benefits, monetary social assistance and a social security allowance for women over 63 years of age and for men over 65 years have increased. Pensions and other benefits also increased, lastly by 2,7 % on 28 February with effect from 1 January. Also, in February, after many years, the amounts for the aid and service allowance and the disability allowance for physical impairment have been adjusted. This harmonisation was carried out in accordance with the system law, and at the same time, we have already agreed in the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget that we will have another extraordinary harmonisation in 2019, which is expected to take place in December 2019. This year, all pensioners will also be entitled to an annual allowance, a higher amount, compared to the previous year. Funding for the annual allowance will increase by €17 million. The amount of appropriations allocated for the payment of the annual allowance to pensioners shall be the same after many years before the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. Slovenia, like most other countries, is seen as an ageing and long-lived society. Life expectancy also brings significant changes in the age structure of the population. Slovenia has adopted a strategy for a long-lived society to meet the challenges of a long-lived society. The aim of the strategy is to encourage the widest range of stakeholders with the need to respond to the challenges facing the ageing population. This strategy seeks to contribute to the fact that the changed population relations would not cause generations-to-generation conflicts or disruptions in the functioning of the social state. On the basis of the strategy adopted, the Council for Active Ageing and Intergenerational Solidarity has already been established, where concrete measures will also be prepared to contribute to ensuring a decent age. How are elders also cared for? According to the experience of organisations implementing programmes for the elderly, loneliness is the biggest problem. The biggest problem arises when the elderly do not have their own social network but do not want the assistance of the competent institutions. The Ministry is thus co-financed by social security programmes, for which we are committed to the 14.7 million euro circus. All programs may include older ones who find themselves in distress. In recent years, a network of these programmes has been greatly expanded for intergenerational cooperation and social inclusion of the elderly. Among the programmes for older people we co-financed, we would like to highlight the programme for the elderly, the programme for Ageing without Violence, 15 multi-generation centres and the Slovenian Association for Dementia Assistance – Memorial and some others. With regard to price increases in nursing homes. In the existing system of institutional protection of basic social services in nursing homes, that is, housing, nutrition and social care, of course beneficiaries or debtors are paid and health care in homes is financed by healthcare. For change from 1. 1. 2019 decided 60% of all homes for the elderly, taking into account the Ministry's recommendation, to stress that I had already sent a letter to all social welfare institutions in December and invited them to decide to raise prices, which on average does not exceed 2%. Data on price changes applicable from 1. 3. We do not yet have this moment, because during the last week of February there were meetings of the board of institutions at which the proposed changes in prices will be confirmed, price notices will be transmitted to the Ministry, we are counting somewhere early this month. With regard to the harmonisation of prices in March, the Ministry called on all operators to take a responsible approach to price fixing, taking into account the revenue and expenditure shown in the 2018 business report, the planned revenue in the 2019 financial plan and also the payment capacity of users. It also called on operators that had already harmonised the prices of the service in early 2019 to join the additional price of the amendments only if the applicable prices do not allow the coverage of the planned costs of the service to be covered or to properly harmonise those elements of the price that were not subject to coordination at the beginning of the year. In the area of institutional protection for the elderly, the accessibility of services needs to be improved, which can only be ensured by the adoption of a system law on long-term care, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Health. The aim of the system law is therefore also to improve the accessibility of the service by creating a new pillar of social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your answer. Now, this last thing you said, although it was not about my question of accessibility, I absolutely agree with you, but I think we need to start having a serious conversation about this once and for all, from the source of justice. We have on the one hand pensioners with outstanding pensions, which amount to, I don't know, over 2,000 euros, and they have free homes for older citizens. I mean, something like this shouldn't happen in this society. On the other hand, you say there's been an increase in pensions. Yes, it is, but, you know, we have a lot of elderly people with a disability pension who today does not reach the amount of social assistance. There are thousands of them, sir. And now, such a rise that is promised today is simply too much for such people. Many today wonder if they can stay in a nursing home because their relatives can no longer finance it. And now, on one side, of course, the salary went up, but it hit the same people in the pocket. So someone's salary has gone up, but, of course, he's taking care of his parents at the retirement home, and this higher salary is going to go up now, of course, for higher amounts. I think it is irresponsible in the country that if we raise wages and, of course, allow someone to live better, on the other hand, of course there is an increase in prices. But what you said was that you gave a letter to watch whether they're going to raise prices or not, or they can do something else, I think it's a little bit, from the point of view of those people who work there and run these institutions, one of the burdens you've given them. I don't think it's anybody's business to raise prices because you're going to make a profit. Is that why they should start saving food? We have on the one hand data that migrants have such and different meals, such and different quality of food, and here in pension homes they should start saving food? There's nothing you can do. There's something you need to do. I'm really calling. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Secretary, would you like to respond? You don't want to answer, okay. This concludes the 16th parliamentary question, moving on to 17. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed minister! My parliamentary question concerns the Minister of Agriculture, Dr Pivec, on the European perspective, which is called rural development, which unfortunately is ending, time is running fast, 2014-2020. We got into this perspective, of course not because of your fault, a little later, a little late, we were late in preparation. During this period in the Republic of Slovenia, according to some statistics we received last year, about 2 000 400 farms have ceased farming. In short, if we give it a day, Slovenia stops farming 1.5 farm. Of course, it is very difficult to compare these farms with European farms, which are large. Out of 60,000 farms, we have 28 000 farms, less than 3 hectares. Dear Minister, with regard to this outlook for rural development 2014-2020, which, as I said, is slowly concluding, I am interested in: Is this trend stopping, decreasing? On the other hand, I would like to know when we are preparing for a new perspective after 2020: Will these trends be able to turn around or at least stop and start turning up?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Thank you, Mr Podkorodsk, for the question. Yes, it is true that we are very careful and with great sensitivity to monitor the situation in the area of the number of farms as well as the structure of agricultural holdings. And the fact is, according to the latest data of the SURS in Slovenia, less than 70 000 agricultural holdings are engaged in agricultural activities. We are seeing a trend in reducing agricultural holdings. To put it simply for comparison, in 2003 there were 77 000 of these. However, it is a slightly more encouraging fact that some types of restructuring are taking place, where growth is recorded in hectares, which means that these agricultural holdings process 480,000 hectares of agricultural land, which is more than 22% more than in 2000. The average size of the Slovenian farm is still 6.9 hectares, although the average size of the farm has increased by a good 1.3 hectares over the last 20 years. Let me mention that this is still lagging behind the European average of approximately 16.6 hectares. These small farms are of course of exceptional importance, for the first time in terms of self-sustainment, and are even more important in terms of maintaining rural functions, preserving the landscape and, of course, biodiversity. Because of all these facts, since such farms are more than 80% in Slovenia and because more than 75% of agricultural areas are linked to restricted areas, we are, of course, paying particular attention to them. Thus, during the 2014-2020 programming period, several measures were supported. Let me just mention them, those who have been in the current programming period. I will also tell you how we plan, which can already be planned for the future financial perspective. Under sub-measure 6.3, which was intended in this financial perspective to maintain small farms in an area with limited active and small farms, small farms located in the area with limited factors were mainly supported in areas with the highest registered unemployment, in areas with the highest proportion of operators over 55 years of age, and in small farms in problem areas and in farms situated in areas where the largest increase in agricultural areas has been observed in the last ten years. In addition to sub-measure 6.3, which was allocated EUR 20 million, agricultural holdings in the form of grants were supported by the amount of EUR 5,000 per beneficiary, a number of other measures were implemented under rural development programmes, namely investment measures, where the funds were mainly intended to invest in the processing or marketing of agricultural and food products and agricultural and forestry infrastructures, and measures 4.2, which supported the development of complementary activities on these smaller farms. How's it going? We are at a time when we are planning to enter a new financial perspective, which you yourself have mentioned. Following current prospects, this perspective is expected to start in 2021, unfortunately, as we all know, but the European Commission is still late or is a little slower in the time frame for making those decisions, which would then also give Member States the opportunity to plan their own strategic plans. Surely, however, we will give particular attention to these small farms, both in the area of direct payments, which is the first pillar for balancing income relations and supporting farms, and of course in the area of rural development programmes with the aim of achieving the greatest possible synergy between the two types of measures, of course. At the same time, incentives for smaller farms must not, of course, stop the restructuring process, because, as we know and as already mentioned, the average size of farms in the European Union is much larger than those in Slovenia and we will have to let this restructuring process happen if we want to raise the percentage of self-sustainment in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u86	Dear Minister, thank you for your first part of the answer. I certainly agree with some of your information, which is also publicly accessible throughout the past, also on the future perspective that I have mentioned that we are slowly concluding it. Since I was alone in the previous term as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, we have often found that these calls are made for large systems, and we have both found how many farms we are losing on the day that the problem of the Slovenian countryside is here. I have no doubt that a large field will not be processed, even if five farms fail to be processed by large systems, but I am afraid and this is an indicator when we drive through Slovenia, for rural areas where no one will work. And I'll be specific so we don't think about it. On 28 December, an invitation to tender for Sub-measure 4.1 for support for agricultural investment was issued. Here all those who report it say it is of great interest. Many times, however, we have high expectations, and our farmers are prepared for these calls, and then we run out of money. We have had one case in the previous term that we have repeatedly convinced the Minister to increase this quota in order to cover the wider segment of these farms, but we have failed. Therefore, I ask you about this concrete measure, which is outside, I think it will be open by April, that it will not happen, that there will be a great interest, and then the money will run out and our small farms will remain at large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u88	It is true that I agree with you that measure 4.1 is one of the most desirable measures, and in fact there are many applications for this measure. As you know, we, too, are limited in resources, and we get them from the European Union. If anyone, I would also like to have more resources, especially during this period when I run the department myself. Unfortunately, we are nearing the end of the existing financial perspective and the resources are only available, as far as the individual measures are concerned. We are currently in the process of evaluating the measures that have been implemented since 2014 or since 2015, because we have been late starting in perspective and what can be done, it will be possible to make transfers between certain types of measures. It means those measures that have been slightly less absorbed or no demand for them, and there remain resources, to redirect to those areas where this is, of course, more desirable or where there is a greater interest in applications. So right after the evaluation that I am counting on doing in the spring work, we will of course see if there are still funds left, and we will certainly redistribute them to those measures that are desirable, and this is definitely measure 4.1 and also 4.2 which allows for complementary activities. However, allow me to say about the future financial perspective that it is very inclined to do so, because you have mentioned larger systems as well as support for them, to go forward in the future financial perspective mainly with direct payments to a more equitable distribution of funds, where the tendency is to lower funds to large recipients to a greater extent than today, and those remaining resources are said to be also a ceiling of some of the resources that large structures or large estates can get, to 60,000 euros, and then, of course, to shift those funds to smaller agricultural economies. Of course, it is necessary, as I have already said, to be careful and careful to limit the restructuring of those who want to increase their property. I often say that special measures should address small farms that are self-sustaining and caring for rural development and with different measures those that contribute to raising the self-sustainment of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We turn to question 18, Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u90	Dear Minister Pivec, I have already sent you the question in writing in advance, so that I will not bother you with this Latvian language that is written there, but because we are accompanied by the Slovenian public, but we will still simplify and make this question understandable. Unfortunately, it is one of the many agencies we have in Slovenia and, of course, it is also under your department, under your jurisdiction, the one we call the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, which, of course, also cares about promotion. The invitation to tender was also, of course, appropriate and offered European funds to facilitate the production of wine or, as it is called, correct awareness to support the promotion of wine and so on in Slovenia. We in Slovenia, of course, said that wine is even food not drink, and accordingly, of course, I will also say, our tradition works. But there is one serious problem. We allocate these funds with the purpose and desire to do so, of course, and then one other authority in this country shows up and says, "ups, no, that's not what you want to do, but it's really a covert advertising of wine drinking. Although in fact, in the program they have reported, they say, Drink a little, drink well, and use wine responsibly to alert them to overindulgence or irresponsible use of alcohol. Our government officials said that it is a secret drink, although they talk about drinking culture and we are aware of it, because there is a general knowledge of the problem of alcoholism in Slovenia, and on the other hand we have vineyards living for wine and working for them to have something of wine and we are doing them the opposite. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: How much longer is that? Given that the decision was issued because this invitation to tender was between 2017 and 2018, we are now 2019, the programme is not implemented, the funds are there, will fall. What will happen, who will now bear responsibility? What message do we give to these growers? How far?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you for the question, Mr Möderndorfer. I will first answer this question in concrete terms, and yet then some more of my reflection on the work of those structures, in this particular case of the agency you mentioned. In this case, I have, of course, checked the matter and it is true that support for informing consumers in the Member States of the responsible consumption of wines and European Union systems for designations of origin and geographical indications is provided by the Regulation on the implementation of the wine sector support programme. Information in Member States under the measure should be based on the actual quality and characteristics of wine with a protected designation of origin or a protected geographical indication which is not directed at certain brands and does not promote alcohol consumption. The Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development has received one application for the approval of the programme at this invitation, published at 11. 8. also approved. In the context of its information programme, the party used the following messages: “Responsible use of wine” and “Drink a little, drink a good” and the name “vinoteka”, including the address of the website on which the offer of wines by certain producers or members of the wine associations is published, I will not mention the name. The Agency for Agricultural Markets has found that the party has breached the notification requirement, as it must not be directed at any brand, which in a particular case with a name and address, is prohibited by the second paragraph of Article 19 of that Regulation. With regard to the use of the messages “Responsible use of wine”, “Drink a little, drink a good” and the content of other information materials, the Agency has requested an opinion on the appropriateness of the information on the health and behaviour effects of wine use by the Ministry of Health, which has raised the issue with the National Institute for Public Health, in which case we are also committed. However, the National Institute for Public Health has, of course, found that the content in question encourages drinking wine. The Agency for Agricultural Markets must, of course, take this opinion into account, but we are party 22. 2. Requests that, before issuing the decision, there is still an opportunity to comment on the findings and was given the opportunity to submit additional arguments on the eligibility of the claim for reimbursement. We're still waiting for this answer right now, so it's not stopped. I'll keep going if you don't mind, 'cause I have a little more time. Of course I agree with you. Where, in fact, is the border between this, because on the other hand, I am, of course, a proponent of those who produce wine in Slovenia. Here is really always the dilemma between what is still a suitable ad for a wine maker, that he will be able to sell his product on the market, and what is still allowed to advertise by the director concerned about the health of citizens. I come from the wine profession myself, and I have been facing this issue for 15 or 20 years. As for the Agency for Agricultural Markets, I know that many agencies often operate under the principle of official review. I really am trying hard and trying to look at these things through the prism of substantive explanations and try to find a healthy limit, which, of course, the law still permits, but at the same time, does not harm those who apply for these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u93	Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm pleased with your way of thinking. In the end, however, we will find together that we have officials who rule this country and make decisions in the end. We have officials who decide and issue such decisions, and we have officials who issue such decisions. However, the Minister must not interfere with the independent work of the proceedings and so on. But we're gonna have to make an end of it once, you know. If we're selling candy, we call it a candy store. If we're selling chocolate, it's called a chocolate bar. And if we sell wine, we call it wine. Don't make a fool out of me. It's a shame, because today Minister Fakin is not here to listen to this debate, because I have a slow suitcase full of these, I'm going to say, obnoxious people who are obsessed with this because they think that every Slovenian will become a chronic drunk if he buys the wine that is food, by the way. But I'm an abstinent myself, and I haven't had alcohol in ten years. It's a paradox that I have to say it now. But I'm against people, officials who, at the cost of that, because they don't care who's going to fail on the other hand, insist on some of their views from some of their whims. Although we know that in the end the decision will have to be issued. And sometimes such a decision has to be made and they have to go to court and challenge it. You have a lot of responsibility on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u96	However, I would like to explain the part of the answer, not the part under Minister Fakin's responsibility, but the part concerning the wine shop. In a particular case, it is not a word of wine, but it is that I did not want to give the whole title and it was actually a direct direction in the name or those behind it. As far as the rest is concerned, I have said that I am working very hard to get this official thinking, but, at least as far as my department is concerned, to the level that we are actually going to use European funds for the purpose for which they are intended. As far as the case of wine advertising is concerned, because I believe that the wine sector is slightly affected or damaged in this area, I commit myself to having a conversation with the competent Ministry of Health, where is the healthy border that is still permissible and we must do something to help our wine sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u98	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, Dr. Bertonzel, I would like to ask you a question regarding the sale procedure of the Bank, a company of shares. The fact is that the European Commission has decided that the 100 % share of the Bank must be sold by June 2019 at the latest as a result of State aid for the resolution of the Bank and the Bank of Celje in 2013. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How is the sales procedure of this company carried out? Which financial advisors are involved in this sales process? Have you also discussed with the European Commission in the last period about the possibility that the sale of this company alone would not take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. It's a cakemaker! Abanka's sales process is under way. As we all know from publicly available information, there is now a thorough business review in the bank. I think they're before they finish it, or some potential investors have already finished it. This is followed by the submission of binding tenders, which is also a public indication that this would be somewhere until the end of March. Last August, the Government authorised the Slovenian State Holding to carry out this sales procedure on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. To the extent that it is known, a procedure shall be carried out in accordance with the planned timetable and, in fact, all procedures have been completed within this timeline. More than that in this part of the process, which is in fact the names of legal or financial advisers, it is common for international legal offices and international advisory financial and audit houses to be involved in these procedures. [[…]] In fact, I can't reveal any more than how the process is going on, the Minister of Finance cannot disclose it because it is time-sensitive information. However, I can say that the only merciless body that could make any decision regarding commitments is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the last meeting, Mrs Vestager and I talked to the Commissioner for Competition about NLB and the NLB commitments, but we did not discuss the procedures concerning the Bank or, as you could see from the press conference, after the meeting, both me and the Commissioner actually made it clear what the position was. We are immediately away from receiving binding offers for some good month. More than that, because of the sensitivity of such information, so that no one understands that I want to influence the procedure in the role of Minister of Finance, nor should I give it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u102	Dear Minister, thank you for this part of your answer. I probably would not raise this issue, but the fact is that the commitment made by Slovenia with the State aid at the time, we have repeatedly stressed this in the Slovenian Democratic Party – that the time component is not actually the one playing positively for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that, due to the time shift of sales towards the end of the sales window, Abank had to take a number of compensatory measures, from reducing the balance sheet rate to selling off its factoring activity, the leasing activities which were two high-income activities in the period preceding the year. The fact is, we probably lost some money in the budget because of this late sale, if you can say so. The most surprising fact, however, is that, somehow in November, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance said that even alternative scenarios for the sale of the Bank were being seriously considered. This means that this decision, issued by the European Commission, would not be taken into account, but some alternative scenarios would be sought. Since this statement came from your ministry, I would not say of any person employed by the Ministry, but from the Secretary of State, I would be interested: Is some alternative scenarios being seriously considered now? Has the European Commission been contacted in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u104	On the first part of the question – all questions relating to the sales procedure are the responsibility of the Slovenian State Holding, which will be able to provide this information on consultants and so on. With regard to the second part of the issue, as I have already mentioned, any decision relating to this procedure within the meaning of these commitments shall be the sole responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are not preparing any alternative scenarios at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Natasa Sukič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much, chairman. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here today, but I am still asking a question: bullying in the workplace, inappropriate distribution of work obligations, overburdening only certain colleagues and colleagues, insults, screaming and the like. Let us imagine such a poisoned working environment, such a working climate and clearly, it is not surprising that in such an environment there is an increase in the absence of workers due to patients. What am I talking about? It's probably clear that I'm talking about the readings we can read about in the media. I spoke to one of the victims of the alleged mobile phone at the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Infrastructure myself. It's a mobbing, a mobbing board by the chief inspector at this inspectorate. “The inspectorate’s employees are in constant fear,” says one of the victims. And he adds that the general service at the inspectorate is not even engaged in its core activity, which is intended to be mainly and mainly support for inspectors, but is involved in monitoring and disciplining employees. It is said that there is always some control, not to improve the quality of the work of employees, but to make use or abuse of the results of this control against those who dare to report this suffering in the workplace. These applications have been significant in the past year and only in the first two months of this year have they been significant. If it doesn't make sense that something's wrong here, I don't know. Of course, we are currently moving in the area of presumption, as the Ministry of Infrastructure or the Inspectorate insists that working relations are within normal working relationships, which is something the President of the Union of State Organs of Slovenia, Francisek Verk, who points out. To further exacerbate matters when someone reports this mobbing, of course, it is worse assessed as a result when its performance is assessed. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Or what will you do? How have you not responded to the calls of the President of the Union of State Organs of Slovenia so far? At the next meeting, I expect an oral response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, everyone else present, Minister Pivec! Our citizens from Lower Podravje as well as I as their Member are concerned about the cultivation of agricultural land, especially those of the more hilly, where much manual work is needed for processing. We are aware that organic farming is very appropriate for smaller hill farms or for areas with limited agricultural opportunities. While the number of organic producers is increasing, the growth of organic production is still not clear – what is the cause and how can the situation change for the better? Therefore, reduce land incursions by increasing organic farming. Most of the organic producers in Lower Podravje state that it is increasingly difficult to sell organic food. They want organic food to become more valuable and customers to be more aware. It is therefore necessary to use all the knowledge of researchers and agricultural advisers. I'm asking you: Have you put in place appropriate measures to promote organic farming? Is there any promotion action under way to produce healthy and organic domestic food? Consumer demand for healthy food has also increased in recent years. In this regard, I am interested in: Then why aren't we making you more pronounced? Is there not a problem with large imports and cheap imported foods? In December 2018, you participated at the Eco Prlekija Round Table, where you said that the Ministry of Agriculture's priority is to establish a new common agricultural policy where organic agriculture will have its rightful place. At the Agribusiness conference, you mentioned once again the new common agricultural policy, which I would like to quote: "It brings more subsidiarity, of course, while taking into account the European Union guidelines, but it will also take account of the specificities of the Member States." I also want to know: So what do you expect from European agricultural policy? What is your programme for the development and promotion of organic food production in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u110	Mr Lenart, honourable Member, thank you very much for the question, and thank the President for his words. It is true that Slovenia has, in view of its structure, which we have already mentioned many times today – this structure is such that more than 75% of agricultural land is located in areas with limited factors, either in hill or mountain farms, in the areas of water protection, or in the areas of farms in the Natura areas, which is also 37% of our agricultural land. So more than excellent conditions just for farming, such as organic farming. At the same time, it is a form of farming following a sustainable farming system, including environmental mitigation, while also producing high-quality food. In Slovenia, as we say, we have an extremely favourable situation for this, especially the situation for organic meat and milk production. For as we know, in the highlands of the hills and mountains, which are most prominent, there is still a vast sector of livestock. In Slovenia, 3 000 741 agricultural holdings were also included in organic control in 2018, representing 5.3% of all Slovenian farms with 48 thousand 668 hectares of land, representing 10.1% of all agricultural land, which means that the structure of these areas on which organic food is produced is larger. Thus, farms have an average size of 12 hectares; if we talked about 6.9 hectares in conventional processing earlier. Slovenia has supported shifts to organic farming since its accession to the EU. Thus, within the existing financial perspective, €65.3 million of incentives have been earmarked for this purpose, both for restructuring and for encouraging organic farming. Under the Rural Development Programme, the organic farming target of 55,000 hectares and 5,000 agricultural holdings is set for the measure by 2020. Given the current figures and the interest after receiving these funds, I believe that both objectives will be achieved, which does not, of course, mean that we cannot be, and we must also be even more ambitious for the future financial perspective. The ICGP also supports organic producers through other measures, through measures of agri-environment-climate payments or so-called COPP payments, as known by the producers, through a measure for areas with limited agricultural factors, quality schemes, measures to establish groups and producer organisations, through a cooperation measure and through an investment measure in fixed assets where additional points are obtained from organic producers on public tendering, it is said that when they run for the same tender with the traditional method of farming, ecological growers receive additional points. Despite support, however, the main reasons for the slow development of organic agriculture are still poor organisation in the field of production. And since you mentioned Prelekia, where we attended the round table, Prlecija is just one of the good examples of practice where growers are already strongly connected and associated to enter the market, while in those parts where these growers are not connected, this is a really big problem, because they also cannot provide enough of the crops that those who buy from them want, whether they are trades or public establishments. Of course, we will continue to work on the ICGP through various measures that will focus primarily on information and awareness of the benefits of organic farming, education and counselling – we are also unfortunately under-advised in the area of organic farming – training farmers to work with the new technologies they can use, and in particular one very important measure, promoting all vertical chains, which means from production to marketing, and for which, as I said, awareness of the role of integration of these producers will also be essential. This autumn, we are also entering the generic promotion of organic farming, which means that we will also allocate special resources and promote organic products in the coming six-year period.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u112	The environmental control you mentioned. So, how long would it take to report this, and then how long does it take to actually put it into organic production, is it said that it did not fertilize, that it did not use starch and so on? How long does it take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u114	I regret to say, I do not have accurate information on these technical matters, how long certain fertilisers must not be used, unfortunately. Of course I can get them. However, this procedure is certainly such, of course these growers may first apply for the funds earmarked for restructuring, which also helps them to adapt technologically to the new type of farming and, of course, they must meet these specific requirements in the certification process carried out by the certification authorities. But I apologize, unfortunately, for exactly how many months it takes, I don't know, I can get this information later, but this is a well-known information to growers. A bigger problem arises when the surrounding farms are not focused on organic processing and the problem is that they then have an impact on certain fertilisers or on the means that this farmer, who might wish to make a decision, also has a problem. That is why, as I said, our activities will focus on raising awareness and educating farmers. I am sure that, as long as this production becomes more massive in Slovenia, Slovenia has enough markets, and there is also a lot of demand for these products on the market. Unfortunately, however, at this point, the offer is not yet sufficient for what the market would have wanted, either as a matter of trade or as a public institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Lidija Ivanuša has the floor to ask the Minister of Health Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u116	Well, hello, all of you! My question is addressed to Minister of Health Sam Fakin. In particular: The patient has the right to respect his time. The health care provider in the public health service network shall arrange for the shortest possible waiting time and waiting time within a reasonable time and work by ensuring that the patient is treated as quickly as possible. The healthcare provider shall treat the patient in accordance with the order of the waiting list or in the order of order and order, unless otherwise specified by law. The Law on Patient Rights provides that the healthcare provider in the public health service network shall ensure that the work is organised in such a way that the waiting period is as short or as short as 30 minutes. Supervision of the above-mentioned legal provisions in the network of public health service providers shall be carried out by the health insurance undertaking. However, the supervision of the health insurance undertaking shall be limited to supervision for all health services subject to a contract between the health operator and the health insurance undertaking. There are no criminal provisions to violate the right to respect the patient's time. I want to know: How many checks have the institution of compulsory health insurance carried out, and what are the findings? How has this legal provision proved in practice to be respected and, perhaps, to cause problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Franz Jurša will ask the Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! Individuals from the Association of Slovenian Officers have warned me that no member of the Slovenian Armed Forces has been promoted to a higher rank since the last 90s. Questions about this leadership are raised by its members at a number of conferences and other meetings, as well as also by veterans, and they have also asked me to ask the Minister of Defence again the question of a Member. By explaining that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted such a rule which makes this impossible, they are no longer satisfied. You are expected to change every rule. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: Can we expect additions or amendments to the Rules on the Advancement of Petitioners and Officers, which will move towards the advancement of the active members of the Association of Slovenian Officers and also of the veteran organisation, who are not in the agile composition of the Slovenian Army, but who were in important duties in the then Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and in the defence bodies of certain local communities? As long as the rule cannot be changed, of course, it is necessary to work on changing the Defence Act as well. I have already raised a similar question to your predecessor, Minister Andreja Katič, just over three years ago. The Minister then replied to me that the Ministry of Defence was carrying out activities related to this initiative in order to address this issue by amending the Defence Act while checking at the same time what changes or procedures would be necessary in order for this initiative to take place in 2016. Actually, that's when we celebrated the 25th anniversary of independence. That's why I want to know: Which of these have already been realized or what activities are currently under way at the Ministry of Defence? When could we expect changes in this area? Let me add that the state's promotion doesn't cost a cent.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the question. I must say that this issue has not actually been resolved since the independence of the Union. I was re-emerged by the Union of Slovenian Officers and the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, an initiative for the extraordinary promotion of officers and officers of the reserve. This is said to be those officers and officers who acted during the period of independence in the Territorial Defence. Of course, some have also worked in other state bodies. This is also the case with this group of military bondholders who, in the framework of military service after their independence, graduated from the military unit's military school and then, because they were not deployed, did not obtain the appropriate rank of officer. By joining this conclusion of yours that many of the officers and officers who carried out the tasks in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia have not progressed. I have to say, this is a legal matter. It is not regulated by the Regulation, but is a Regulation on facts and promotions in the Slovenian Army. In addition, they regulate promotion and determination of acts also of the Law on Defence, the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army. You also correctly realized that it was already an attempt to change the Defence Act and actually try to set this thing back up, but then it didn't work. However, I must say that the military act demonstrates the position of individual members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the structure of the Slovenian Army. This is achieved in two ways. The first is through appropriate education, training. Another way is if an officer performs a certain duty on a higher rank than he currently carries out. But this is about somehow trying to thank all those who acted in the reserve composition of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia for their contribution made during the period of the self-sustainment war. Of course, it is a sensitive issue that this would not affect, in particular, the field of the career system that applies to the Slovenian Army. Here, of course, when we resolve these legal issues, we will have to be very careful not to interfere with the Slovenian Army's career system, which is determined very precisely through training, education. Here we just want to express some thanks to all those members who were involved in the war of independence. I must say, I had a conversation with the Federation of Slovenian Officers last week. They raised this issue again, and we agreed that we will try to address this issue within the Ministry of Defence, through the regulation, not through the rule of law, and, as it were, through the regulation on actions and promotion in the Slovenian Army. I hope that this issue will be resolved through a regulation. The key is that these officers and officers who worked in the reserve at the time of Slovenia's independence have the status of veterans under the War Veterans Act, so that there is no situation here for anyone to receive a higher rank, but it worked, for example, in the spare structures of the Yugoslav Army and was not an active member when it came to a self-sustaining war. Therefore, this status as a veteran will be conditioned in any way not to be abused. You have also rightly concluded that this matter will not have any budgetary implications. It is primarily that those who acted at the time experience a measure of satisfaction.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u122	In a large part of the answer, I agree with what you have said, but of course I have some things to back up. In fact, it is known that for a number of acts, as well as the suit of the Slovenian Army reserve officer, if I call it that, it means a lot. We see this especially at these meetings of officers and veterans. For example, some members of the Slovenian Army had a higher rank in the former army, which they were actually fighting than they are now. All these members actually carry some other army, but not this army, for which the country has actually fought in some way, here or there, or in the administrative authorities or in the territorial defence units. I'd like to know about the deadline for you to say a little bit more specifically how much time this could happen. For me, this correction means something, a regulation, a regulation, a regulation, and for us this is in the final stage absolutely no matter what, and if the regulation can be corrected, the regulation can also be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you very much. In this regard, I must say that we have been in contact with the Union of Slovenian Officers and the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia all the time because we would like to resolve this issue. It is important to know that it has been almost 30 years for me to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Slovenia's independence, and we would like to resolve this issue in a legally correct manner by then. I am sure that with good will and with some common sense, we can also resolve this legal issue properly. I think the regulation will be the most appropriate act. I have already ordered the services to prepare possible solutions because there are different situations to know, and I would not like to see a situation in the context of the amendment of the regulation where someone would have this right to increase by act, but someone would have been overlooked. Because, as I said, it's not only about officers and officers working in the Territorial Defense, but it's also about others operating in other state bodies. Here we have, for example, defence departments, which we know were carrying out a great and important task at that time, when it came to recruiting volunteers who went to fight for independent and independent Slovenia, including members of the then militia, the police cooperated. So this needs to be thoroughly reviewed in order to avoid any categories being omitted. As Minister of Defence, I can say that, of course, I am inclined to resolve this issue, because it is primarily about thanking all those who risked their lives in such a way that they also experience this elevated act. As we say, we will have to be careful not to interfere with the very structure of the Slovenian Army's career where it comes from professionals, because there is also one fear that things will not get mixed up. But I'm sure we also have the right legal and professional solutions for these things. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The president of an officer's organization I belong to will soon be old, if I'm not mistaken, 77 years old, bearing the rank of major. This is said to be progressing, given that he has everything you said, the minister – who would he threaten within the Slovenian Army? None. I can certainly tell you that if six months from now, before the celebration, this solution will not be adopted, I will again ask you a question. However, I will not propose a public debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims, who will question the Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Mr Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The task of the police is to protect and protect both the individual and, of course, the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. The legal order of the Republic of Slovenia is based on its constitution. This constitution is widely threatened by irresponsible conduct and, in some cases, by systemic action. However, it is certainly not as threatened in any area as it is in the matter of freedom of expression. 39. Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia gives everyone the right to collect, expand, express his thoughts. This article is located, ladies and gentlemen, in the chapter of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is a chapter within which it is not permissible to restrict human rights and fundamental freedoms in any additional way by the Constitution itself, except in exceptional cases on the basis of the Constitution itself, and of course by law. This is the legal order — what about it in practice? In practice, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few months, especially this period of some eight months, since the last elections, things have been going on in terms of the goods protected by Article 39 of the Slovenian Constitution, which are quite unacceptable. For example, it happens that one individual shares an advertisement for a legally published book in Slovenia, an advertisement published on the website of one of the legal Slovenian media registered in the register of media, and when he shares it, he gets 30 days of bans on internet use. 30 days of bans. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? I personally experienced the case when I shared pictures from the national celebration of the Republic of Poland, the national celebration of the European Union, and someone erased it. And when I asked for an explanation, it was said that it was the spread of right-wing extremists or right-wing nationalism or something. Ladies and gentlemen, in Refugees we have a very nice institution for those who hope to say such a thing. But in this case, it's something else. It's an obvious, grave, deliberate systematic intervention in human rights, freedom of expression. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Whose side will the Slovenian police be on? In this regard, I have already made a public announcement, as far as I know, you have done nothing. I also ask you: Will you protect freedom of expression as enshrined in Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u129	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! Slovenian police are always on the side of legality, expertise and work in accordance with their powers. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 39, guarantees freedom of expression, thought, speech, public appearances, print and other forms of public information and expression, while also laying the foundations for the effective exercise of many other human rights. The Government advocates the maximum respect for the rights and freedoms of an individual guaranteed by the Constitution, laws and international acts, while the Government, like other governments in the European Union, advocates zero tolerance in any hostile speech and expects all state authorities to carry out their tasks in accordance with the Constitution and laws. Modern society has been increasingly confronted with the abuse of that constitutional right in the form of an enemy speech in recent years. The police have taken an active approach to identifying, preventing and persecuting various forms of hate speech, participating in a research group involving NGOs, universities and research institutes. With the work of the working group, we have strengthened the functioning of the police and the capacity of police officers to work in multicultural communities. There is also great emphasis on raising awareness and linking the functioning of state and local authorities in environments where multicultural communities also live. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and with positive legislation, the police must take appropriate action when establishing illegal conduct, which is also consistently exercised by the use of powers under the Criminal Procedure Act, the Offences Act, the Police's Tasks and Powers Act and so on. It will also work hard in the future to avoid such illegal practices or to keep them as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u132	All of this, we all know, is happening under the cover of the fight against hate speech and also opens the oldest dilemma of any democratic society – who controls the overseers. Of course, what's going on here has nothing to do with the cases I've mentioned. It is the most harsh, disgusting, disgusting form of censorship, political censorship. That's all. Here's this slippery ice, Mr. Secretary. I can now ask you what hate speech is. Tell me the exact legal definition of the hate speech, and you'll see that you can't, because no one knows it. There are some legal definitions, none of which are uniformly defined. Persecuting something on the basis of something that is not even clear what it is is is, of course, totally unacceptable and means in itself a grave violation of human rights. As a result, all the most well-known, most respected Slovenian constitutional lawyers point out that no administrative persecution of the so-called enemy speech is admissible, because it constitutes only a grave violation of the constitutional order and the Slovenian legislative and all the other, all of which form a joint legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. That's the problem. That's why I ask you again, in such cases or if you want another similar. [[…]] There is someone who is active in one of the civilian initiatives, sharing a legally published video of one of the media stations in the neighbouring Republic. When he shared it on his side, all right, when it was posted on the website of a civil initiative, blocking, erasure, I don't know what. For something completely legal. In short, there is a systematic, obvious violation of human rights here. As police, as those who protect, you are obliged to act against those who commit this violation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u133	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The police have certainly taken action when the 39th Article of the Constitution, which provides for freedom of expression, is at stake in the Penal Code, Article 297 of the Public Promotion of Hatred, Violence or Intolerance and, of course, in the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace in Article 20, when we speak of the promotion of intolerance, also. These are the marriage grounds. The police act legally, professionally and in accordance with their powers. However, it is true that the police are only the first in the whole process, and I believe that the courts eventually determine freedom of speech or so-called hate speech or reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u135	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u136	Obviously, when it comes to understanding the legal order and the actual state of affairs, whether we don't hear each other or we don't understand each other. When you say the police are protecting me, I'll tell you again the case that happened to me personally. I shared images from the national celebration of the Republic of Poland, a member of the European Union that began with the opening that their President of the country had, then was a short military parade and then it was an expression of patriotism that we could only wish for in Slovenia. There were thousands of Polish flags. Something similar, perhaps to a smaller extent, we see only in Planica every year in Slovenia. And I have commented that I would like such a thing in Slovenia, so that the celebration in such a way and that the value of patriotism would also be the central point that everyone has in words, including all former Presidents of the Republic of Slovenia, is always full of mouth, when it is necessary in practice to enforce it, but it happens to you that someone erases it and writes that it is about encouraging, I don't know, right extremism, or what nonsense they have already written to me. In this case, it is clearly an abuse of these measures. Against this, you should act – in order to protect freedom of expression, Article 39 of the Slovenian Constitution and all the legislation on which this is also justified. For this reason, I say that not only is it necessary, but it is imperative for the National Assembly to speak about this in order to see any systematic, systematic, planned abuses occurring in this moment under the cover of the persecution of hate speech. Once again, you can check: hate speech is not defined in legislation at all. Nor is it defined in European legislation. There is some legal practice, there are different definitions that are political, but there is no uniform concept of what it is. The absurdity of this story is that almost everyone thinks they know what hate speech is, but it's not really defined. For this reason, the only one who could act in any way would be a competent court. But only it and no one else, because any administrative action of this kind automatically means, in itself, abuse and manifestly unconstitutional conduct in the light of the extremely clear, here is every honour to the authors of the Slovenian Constitution, Article 39 of the Constitution, including those in the chapeau of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which further protect this article and this right. However, I hope that in at least one thing we all agree: democracy, in which freedom of expression is not consistently respected, becomes just a farce and a totalitarian system. Certainly, if we do not want something, it is that in Slovenia a totalitarian system will be quietly formed under the present authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u137	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Juret Lebnu and the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. The first ideas about the birdfold date back to the last century. As a result of the construction of the Ptuj Bridge, the Ormoska road, which is one of the invasions of the city of Ptuj, gained attractiveness and transit in the city. Unfortunately, the construction and opening of the new highway did not contribute to the shift of traffic and transit from the embankment road back to the other direction. That's the way it is. People living along the armo road have at first terrible problems with noise and dust levels, as well as hard nanodecks, followed by vibrations resulting from driving this transit or various means of transport, and these have already pretty well destroyed buildings, and unfortunately with health. Since humans live not only for numbers but also for numbers, there is an important direct sense of the affected population in addition to the measurements. Many times, they say that when they go out to the garden or to the yard, they can’t even talk because they can’t hear, such strong vibrations and noises are there. Now I have some questions. My questions are: What are all the measurements made for this area; when, where, and who performed them? What solutions are planned for the projected reconstruction of the road that is moving again? How will after reconstruction improve the lives of the affected inhabitants, they can promise anti-group protection, real estate repair subsidies as some sort of compensation? Is there any objection to the ban on transit traffic along the arms road? The effects could be known very quickly as transit transport is the main source of pollution of the living environment along the road. The Ministry advocates the so-called Northern Birdfold, which takes place in the northern part, because, in any case, the matter continues in this direction, that the people who live along this road take up the southern railing, are referred to as the southern birdfold, and they are interested in the following. [[…]] I'm asking you: What are the framework deadlines for the construction of the birdfold? The impact assessment for the South-South variant is currently being carried out, when will the results of the assessment of this route be known? However, I demand from the ministers and from the Government that the northern version of the bypass, which would significantly worsen the quality of life in this area, be taken from the table and we are talking only about the southern variant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Juret Lebnu a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Republic of Slovenia is still experiencing the consequences of the past financial crisis, which has significantly reduced investment in construction, especially in the area of housing construction. According to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia needs 10,000 new apartments, which exceeds the capacity of this institution. Since the offers are too small, the prices of both built apartments and dwellings that are in construction are high. As a result of the financial crisis, a number of construction projects have been inherited, from residential buildings to the neighbourhood, and so on, which, on the basis of the mortgages entered into, have been transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company, DUTB. The latter are now selling these facilities at market prices. Both the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, DUTB, are business entities owned by the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the distinguished minister: Is there a legal basis that would allow the transfer of ownership of unsold residential facilities from DUTB to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia? What would be the appropriate amendments or additions to the laws on the basis of which this transposition would be possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Muršič, who will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister! The local elections are behind us. Municipal administrations and municipal councils, or city councils, are composed in spite of complications in some areas. The Local Self-Government Service at your Ministry was also very involved in local elections this time and was monitoring the progress of local elections, including the holding of elections. In the course of the elections, this service answered many questions, which I certainly believe you know, as well as representatives of candidates and candidates and candidates. Many interested parties also addressed the State Election Commission with their questions. We know that the latter has a rather limited mandate in the conduct of local elections, I repeat, local elections, which does not mean, of course, that she was not actively involved in the local elections. The undeniable fact is also that the State Election Commission answers with its answers, opinions and proposals and has also answered many of the questions addressed to it. After the local elections, you were briefed by the State Election Commission on your observations and conclusions on the past local elections. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Are you familiar with the letter from the National Election Commission, in which it made its assessment of the local elections and also proposed to examine some possible amendments to the Local Elections Act? If you are familiar with the letter, I would like to know: How do you define yourself to the individual observations of the National Election Commission and to the proposed solutions? I also want to know: Has the Local Self-Government Service prepared an assessment or analysis of local elections? If she made it, I'd like to know: Are the job observations similar to those observed by the State Election Commission? I'm also curious: Are you considering any changes to the legislation governing local elections? If so, I wonder: On what issues would you say changes to legislation would be necessary? Dear Minister, I think it is now the right time for the cases presented and the problems caused during the 2018 local elections to be resolved in due time until the next local elections. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u143	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Ministry of Public Administration is working very closely with the State Election Commission in all forms of elections when it comes to local elections in particular. So we were both orally and in writing aware of the content of the analysis prepared by the State Election Commission following this local elections. Here I would point out in particular two initiatives of the National Election Commission, which we received in writing and, of course, responded immediately. It is the two proposed amendments to the Local Elections Act, for the first time that the Presidents of the Municipal Elections Commissions, as in the State elections, should be appointed from among the Judges, and for the second time that electoral legislation should be interpreted by one State authority in the execution of local elections. So far, in accordance with the Law on Local Elections, both the Ministry of Public Administration and the electoral system, such as the State Election Commission, when it comes to electoral procedures, voter organisation, the work of electoral committees and so on. The first measure would, according to the State Election Commission, provide a higher degree of legality of the functioning of the municipal electoral authorities, while the second would provide quicker and more uniform answers to the questions of the electoral authorities and candidates. As we have said, we have informed the National Election Commission that we have absolutely included the initiatives of the National Election Commission in a set of possible amendments to the Local Elections Act, because there are several other ideas in this selection, and I may now tell you what we have found in the Ministry of Public Administration, after we have conducted a survey with all the secretaries of the Election Commissions throughout Slovenia. They were, in fact, one such good indicator of what would be applicable in electoral legislation yet to be changed. Otherwise, on the basis of this questionnaire, the secretaries of the electoral commissions assessed only the preparation and progress of the electoral process and the elections themselves. Among the problems pointed out by the secretaries of the Ministry of Public Administration were, among other things, difficulties in the conduct of elections in the local councils, some errors of the Geodetics Administration in the identification of certain voters, and they also pointed out the irregularity in the payment of awards to members of the electoral committees due to the tax policy – a minor problem, but it was quite large at that time, and we also dealt with it with the Ministry of Finance in a transitional way. On the basis of these perceptions, as well as some other initiatives taken by the Ministry of Public Administration during the regular local elections, the issue of the electoral rights of soldiers on international missions abroad will be raised by the Ministry in its proposal for a new Law on Local Elections. In addition to those I have already mentioned, questions about the regulation of the electoral rights of persons with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia who would like to vote from abroad have also been raised several times, and the simplification of the elections of the Council of Local Communities in order to introduce some uniform rules, since now individual municipalities are regulating this for themselves. And a more detailed arrangement, including that was exposed, the awards of municipal election committees. These were therefore matters that were highlighted during the initiatives to amend the Law on Local Elections. We have accepted a set of these initiatives and are preparing a proposal for amendments to the Local Elections Act. However, given that there is still some time here, I think it would be wise, and we will also do that, but we will still pick up other initiatives that may appear and we do not even know about them at this time. And then, if the Law on Local Elections is opened, even comprehensively [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u145	Sorry, Mr. Secretary. The technique is being eliminated. Ma'am, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. True, the local elections are really complicated, to the extent that I say, even more complicated than the state elections. However, in this place, because I see that it is an interest to change the Law on Local Elections, I would like to point out, and I cannot help but overlook the fact that the municipal election committees in recent elections acted very voluntarily. I would like to point out that some of the voices of the black and white press – political parties have logos that are colourful, and they have not taken this into account. Some municipal election committees did not even put logos on the ballot, even though the political party proposed or wanted this logo on the ballot. I would also like to point out at this point that only one candidate has submitted candidate lists, which is allowed by law, but I am asked if the candidate list can be made up of 18 members and only one candidate on this list is put forward, how can we talk about the fact that it is a candidate list. I would also like to mention that small municipalities have formed electoral units. Here too was the fact that the smaller constituencies wanted to circumvent article 70a of the Law on Local Elections, that each of both sexes belonged to at least 40%, which means that one sex was elected to the municipal council. It was also interesting that we did not get information on the preferred votes. The municipal electoral commission did not want to give us this information, but they had a very strong impact on the candidates elected to the municipal councils. I think there is a real need for this law to be opened. I see you have an interest, and I believe we will find a way together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u147	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you. Of course, I absolutely agree with you, Your Honor. We also know about all these things, and they have also been published in public. That is why the initiative taken by the National Election Commission is to appoint people of the types of judges as Presidents of the Electoral Commission and to define certain things in the law itself. This should, of course, be arranged for the uniform image or uniform rules to be for the whole country. Therefore, with all that has been shown in these local elections, it is reasonable to open the Law on Local Elections, but it is true that no one has questioned the legitimacy of these elections, luckily and thankfully no one in this country has disputed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Dejan Kaloh, who will question the Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u150	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister Boštjan Poklukar, we are the last again, so we will be productive, I believe. A week ago, the 4th meeting of the Europol Joint Parliamentary Oversight Group took place in Bucharest. I was a participant there, too. In short, Europol's leadership has highlighted the achievements of the last half of the year, from September 2018 to February 2019, which is why today's question – Europol, the relationship with Slovenia and, of course, their achievements in the most pressing areas concerning Slovenia, will be our country. I want to know: How much did Europol actually help in the area of migrant smuggling in Slovenia? How actively has Europol been involved in any national investigation in the last three years in relation to criminal smuggling activities? How successful has our police been in breaking down these criminal smuggling networks? Previously on a previous question, you said the police were successful in preventing the smuggling of migrants. Recent statistics show that, however, this is not so that this migratory flow and this smuggling is increasing. If I have the right information, I think yours are official, in January alone, which is still the winter month, the border went illegally across 325 illegal migrants, which is 33% more than it was in January of last year. So this current is larger, it's not shrinking. I am interested in this, Mr. Minister: What measures do you have in the future? Measures are being taken to control these illegal migrations, because, as we see, statistics show, this flow is not understood. So much for the first part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u151	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Slovenian police use different international platforms for operational information exchange and up-to-date mutual information. Europol is the only European Union agency responsible for collecting, processing and storing criminal intelligence information at EU level. Europol also supports and strengthens the activities of the competent authorities of the Member States and their mutual cooperation in the prevention, detection and investigation of serious crimes affecting two or more Member States is the European Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Cyber Centre and the Centre for Combating Illegal Migration. This has been the case since 1 May 2017, when Slovenia joined or exchanged this information in Europol. Large international criminal and terrorist networks pose a major threat to the internal security of the European Union. The greatest security threats are terrorism, illegal migration and illicit trafficking in illicit drugs, illicit trafficking in arms, money laundering, fraud, counterfeiting of euro and trafficking in human beings, and cybercrime, tax evasion and other contemporary threats. Slovenian police exchanges with Europol take place daily through the Slovenian national unit Europol. Part of the national unit is the Office for the Association of the Republic of Slovenia, located in Europol, where two officials or two members of the Slovenian police, who are so-called liaison officers or liaison officers, carry out their duties and tasks. The Europol Liaison Office is part of a single platform that brings together all representatives of security authorities from the countries participating in Europol. I must say that cooperation with Europol is going well, Europol and the use of Europol's products and tools is increasing from year to year. I must say that the reports sent and the reports received from 2016 to 2018 have also increased by 20%. This means a lively exchange of information. In 2018, the Slovenian police sent 786 communications on operational matters to Europol. This means that it is a 25 % increase compared to 2017 and that Slovenia is also ranked 5th among the 28 Member States after the number of information exchanged with Europol in 2017. Here is also a large part of cooperation with Europol in the field of organised criminal associations and the financial analytical assistance of Europol to the Slovenian police. We do consider this cooperation to be exemplary. True, migration is one of the security threats in this country. You have also rightly stated that we are not hiding this from the fact that migration increased in January compared to last year. This can also be attributed to better and warmer weather, as migration from the region takes place through Slovenian territory to the Republic of Italy. The police are effective, but we need to know that some of these people also come illegally through Slovenian territory. It is true, as I said before, that we have previously recorded an increase in migration flows right at police stations or police administrations in the area of New City and Kopra, we are now being opened in the area of the Ljubljana Police Administration and partly Maribor, as the border is being searched for permeability and the police are also moving with operational measures. Before that, you asked me what they were doing. One of the measures is border surveillance video in these sectors where illegal border crossings are common. It is true, however, that cooperation with the Republic of Croatia is carried out properly and all these illegal migrants who are stopped or arrested at the borders themselves are returned in accordance with the agreement. Of course, all those perpetrators of the crime of smuggling of these people are also properly processed. Of course, there is also a major problem with the abuse of asylum procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u154	Mr. Secretary, thank you so much for this part of your answer. It's all true. Thank you very much for at least one measure of video surveillance, I hope there will be more. Not after all is Slovenian Robert Črepinko, you know this, also at the head of the European Centre for Combating the Trafficking of Migrants. So I hope that this cooperation with Europol will be even more fruitful, that then, at the end of the year, the statistics will not speak, I don't know, about 20 or 30 thousand migrants going across our country and many of them remain here with the abuse of the asylum system. But since you also mentioned cybercrime, there would be another complementary question here, because it is also in Europol's focus when we talked about Bucharest, this is very important – attacks on information systems of public institutions and businesses, sexual abuse of children over the Internet, fraud and places of payment over the Internet; so all the rejections that then take place over the darknet, on this so-called dark web, are now of interest to me in this segment: How does Slovenian police deal with this phenomenon of crime, which is not available to ordinary users at all? Is the Slovenian police here, or are criminals being fed? According to my information, they're not as qualified as they are. In order to be successful in detecting crimes in an anonymous area of the dark network, it seems important to me that: effective legislation, professional, motivated and qualified personnel are said to be effective. The key question is: How is the Slovenian police in this very important area of cybercrime or dealing with the darknet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u155	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much. To explain the measures at our southern border or at the Schengen border – in fact, we are explaining in very detail to the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, so I do not want to explain them here. I must say that I met with the Director of Europol before the time in Brussels, in fact, she is very pleased with Slovenian cooperation, including the mentioned Mr Črepinka, who is one of the leaders within Europol. As I have already said, Slovenian police use Europol's data exchange agency and it is also successful in these operational matters, and this is also reported, so I do not see any problems here. However, I agree with you, cybercrime is a modern risk, a modern threat in this digital society in which we live, and here we must also prepare ourselves for some resistance to it. First, when you asked me how to work on the dark Internet, how to explore on the dark Internet – Slovenian police have knowledge but have no legal powers. This is what we want to do in the following novels of the Criminal Procedure Act in some way also bring the power to investigate computer systems, but I believe that there will be a very gruesome debate here, because every police mandate requires on the other hand control, both parliamentary and domestic, as well as civil society and also judicial. This is how the debate will be, I believe, also turbulent, but I do not want to close my eyes, because these threats and risks of cybersecurity are difficult, in fact, extremely dangerous. The dark web is something that we do not currently have the authority to investigate and not the equipment in this way, and this is some field in which Slovenian police cannot operate. It works in other ways, in those where the law is clear or the Criminal Procedure Act allows it, and here you have to put a dot and the rules are crystal clear. However, I believe that it is in this Chamber that we will hear arguments when we open this debate, but above all I want to have the power of democratic society, because any disregard for any human rights or control or action in this case must require really good controls. I believe that we will reach them here with a broad consensus towards the Slovenian police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. It is the turn of Primož Siter, who will question the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Question for the Minister of Education absent from today's session on the topic of online tools used by Slovenian primary schools and heard by the name of eAssistent. It is one online tool or platform that allows electronic communication on the route of school – parents – including children. E-school’s website says that the tool is intended to exchange messages between school and parents on food regulation, timetable and school events. It's also designed for students. They can prepare for evaluation, have insights into school nutrition, the schedule and the list of homework and so on and so on. eAssistent is a concretely positive tool in digitisation of the school system as well, and everything is fine here. But there is one problem when we find that the free service of this eAssistent is only partial. So, parents who do not pay 26 euros per school year for each child, or 50 euros for a package of parental and student aids, are deprived of a comprehensive service and the Slovenian school system of parents at this point are divided into two classes; those who can take a look at their child's teaching process and those who can't. This is an unacceptable discrimination and inadmissibility in a system which should be equally accessible to all families, irrespective of their financial, material, social background. The problem is also that the owner and administrator of this tool is a private company and users are therefore parents and school obliged children. That's why I'm interested in the following package of questions: Does the Ministry have a strategy or formulated guidelines for digitisation between schools and parents? Has any consideration been given to the full control of parents over the teaching process that takes place between a teacher and a student, since, on the other hand, we do not need teachers to look under our fingertips every two minutes? Does not the payment of this service mean equal treatment of students? Why is part of the service even paying? In what way can socially weaker families be given the same opportunity of rapid and effective, I stress, electronic insight and information about their child's education? Why is the service provided by an external provider, a private undertaking and not the Ministry of Education? What is the nature of the contract and the cooperation between the Ministry and the contractor? Given the Minister's absence, I'd like him to answer me orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you very much. A nice greeting to everyone! As we have already heard today, the Minister of Infrastructure is absent and abroad. If my information holds, deals with climate change and in this spirit, i.e. in the spirit of the Paris Agreement or in the spirit of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it is also an issue that I am addressing. In September 2016, we introduced a subsidised single ticket for integrated public passenger transport, and with its help we enabled students, students and participants in adult education to make public transport more accessible and time-consuming between home and educational institutions. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: When can I expect similar combined tickets to be introduced for all other public passenger users? But I'm asking for an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Franci Kepa will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I say hello to everyone! The existing H1, former highway, is burdened by traffic. Its daily traffic is from all 4 municipalities in the administrative unit Trebnje; most of it from Trebnje, as well as from Mirna, Šentrupert, Mokronoga, Treblen, and Sevnica. The biggest failure to enter the town of Trebnje is an unregulated intersection on R2488 regional road, on the section connecting to the local road 425052. Project documentation has already been developed for the establishment of the circle in question. Redefinition of the central circular intersection of Trebnje, intersection for Dobrennic, intersection for Treles. Construction of a circle on this part would significantly improve transport safety. The transport hub is also built in Mirna, where they are waiting for the necessary bypass and bridge across the Mirno River, which would help avoid traffic to the centre of this place. At the opening of the new highway near Trebnje, the congregation was promised to make connections to H1 within a few years and to remove overpasses that are in very poor condition. These are five, including imports into Trebnje. The two connectors have already been resolved and the remaining three should be resolved as soon as possible. Existing overpasses are as old as the old highway, sometimes falling off the obstacle, open fittings are visible, fences on them are loosened. The problem has also been shown on public television. Every day, children walk to school and the country for walks, and after H1 bikers, bikers walk. It is only luck that we can thank him for not having had an accident so far. The worst condition is the overpass near the village of Lake, where there will also be additional connection after removal. It must be recognised that the Roads Directorate is cooperative, but without additional resources, all projects will not be able to be completed quickly. The SDS Group proposed an amendment to the 2019 budget rebalancing for additional funding for this project, €1.5 million, to speed up the matter, but the coalition rejected it. The funds could also be diverted from 2022 to 2019 or 2020, new connections could be made, along with cycling routes, and old superstructures could be removed. You shouldn't waste money on expensive maintenance. I want to know: What are you gonna do to make things go away? Given that the Minister of Infrastructure is not present today, I suggest that you answer the question raised at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u164	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! My question concerns the area of public procurement. In the past mandate, certain positive measures have been taken that have facilitated the procedures themselves. For example, in the field of engineering and architectural activities as a criterion is no longer the exclusive criteria of the lowest price, the criterion of the most economically advantageous solution is introduced, which is not fully defined and leaves many issues open and incomparable. In practice, this means that a number of tendering procedures are carried out long enough not to pass the procedure without the tenderers complaining or even requesting an audit. One of the more resounding examples is the construction of the Karavanka tunnel. In view of the fact that, at the time of your election to the Minister, you have stressed the need for this law to be amended, I am interested in: Is the Ministry planning these repairs and is there a time stamp? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Member, the Ministry of Public Administration is certainly planning amendments to the Public Procurement Act. It is true, however, that in this short period of time, as far as I am at the Ministry, we are very intensive in this area. At this point, you have mentioned one of the concrete things that burden the law, and the whole public view is a whole bunch of flat-rate assessments, that the law is bad when we want to know more than that, but there are no answers. We went for this very reason into a very detailed, if I may say in the notes, a field check. Thus, we have conducted a series of interviews with contracting authorities all over Slovenia and now we are also having talks with the tenderers, i.e. with the economy on the other hand, in order to really specialize in the basic problems on the basis of which the law will make sense to open. As we know, marriage has not even been in effect for how long. But it is true that it is now the time when the consequences can be seen in practice. However, what we did at the Ministry of Public Administration first and at this point we may have found a major problem is the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. Here, however, things are more complicated, and they call first to rescue them as soon as possible. On the basis of the discussions we have had with the European Commission, we have begun to prepare draft amendments to this law and is now in the final stage of preparation. I expect that this month we could start a public debate on this law – well, I can say that this month we will also start a public debate. The aim of the proposed solutions is to increase independence, and – I will say a little harsh – also the expertise of the Legal Protection Authority in procurement procedures, this is the State Audit Commission – to regulate the appointment and discharge of members of the Commission. At the same time, the law already has priority in addressing audit requests for public contracts co-financed by European funds. A similar solution would also make sense for larger infrastructure projects, irrespective of the way in which they are financed. While we can see that in the last period, somewhere from 2013 onwards, the number of audit requests received in public procurement procedures is significantly decreasing, but on the other hand, the information that has shown us that particular attention should be given to this area, that in procurement procedures over €5 million of these audit requests are more than 25 to 30% more than years ago, and that there are about 45% of them are successful, which is 10 to 15% of all audit requests, which, of course, is huge. Of course, we cannot limit the right to review by law now, we already have one of the highest fees in Europe, but we want to speed up the audit procedures with the amendment of the law in the field of public procurement of higher value, which is not financed by European funds, which we think is extremely important. In this way, we would also be able to achieve a quicker solution, as these delays certainly do us a great deal of economic damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the floor to ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! President, Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Mr Rudi Medved! I am going to ask you an oral question concerning employment apartments or premises owned by the State or the Republic of Slovenia. There are a number of such apartments or these spaces in Slovenia, in different areas in different buildings and in Lithuania there is something similar. The questions are as follows: How many apartments in the Republic of Slovenia are managed by the Ministry of Public Administration or the Housing Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? How many of these apartments are occupied, and how free is it? At the same time, I'm curious: How much is the income from renting these apartments? How many apartments are sold with a non-profit and how many with a profit? I'm sorry, there are a lot of questions, but I believe that you've probably already prepared something, so that I can also get some answers and, of course, all citizens and citizens. In doing so, I would like to point out another special case, namely the case of the Lithium Red Cross Regional Association, which is the tenant of such an apartment, has been said to be a state apartment since 1973. This association, which deals with humanitarian activities and has the status of a society in the public interest, which seems to me to be essential information, has so far had an exposure of the apartment to the use free of charge or not charged with the rent and has regularly settled all operating costs. This association, called the Regional Association of the Red Cross of Lithuania, had to extend the contract every year, despite the fact that since 1973 they had rented this apartment and that they were also holders of housing rights. I want to know: Will the Red Cross Regional Association continue to have to pay a profitable rent, or is it possible that rents will be forgiven as before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm gonna have to give you some numbers because that's the question. The Ministry of Public Administration has one day. 3. 2019 in the management of 502 apartments, of which 464 are occupied, 6 are unoccupied and already allocated and 32 are unoccupied. Of these 32, which are not occupied, 16 – we call them unsuspecting for office apartments – intended for sale, 8 apartments will be rented and already an invitation to tender on the website of the Ministry of Public Administration and 8 will be included by the Ministry of Public Administration in the invitation to tender for the rental of office apartments to be made in 2019. What does unsuspecting apartments mean? These are apartments that are not suitable for broadcasting because of their natural condition, are rooms without sanitary facilities or basements, apartments that are not suitable for a work apartment because of their location and are, of course, intended for sale if an interest is shown. The number of dwellings paid with non-profit rent is 401, the number of dwellings paid with a profit is 63. Beneficiaries for renting apartments with non-profit rent shall, in accordance with the rules of residence, be employed in public administration bodies and officials, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity for a period of 3 years, employed in the police, the Slovenian Army and for a period of 2 years employed in the Office of the President of the Republic. In 2018, the annual rental revenue was EUR 28 000 317 million and the annual inflows under this heading are comparable and are approximately the same in 2017 and 2016 as the figure I mentioned. The average age of dwellings is 40 years and the average usable area of dwellings is 52 square metres, and this data may be about two thirds of all these apartments in the Ljubljana area and remain relatively evenly scattered throughout Slovenia. Now, if you'll excuse me, there's an explanation regarding the apartment he rents the Red Cross in Lithuania. The Red Cross has been renting this apartment since 1973, as you mentioned, and it was also free until 2017, when there was a centralisation of real estate management and thus the regulation of the Housing Commission came into force, which no longer provides for free rent of apartments. No one thought that this could in nature also cause the damage that this, of course, caused the Red Cross in the area of Lithuania. So the apartment can no longer be rented free of charge under this rule. The Red Cross was aware of this at the time, and you do not want to have to agree to the rent you mentioned and, of course, to settle it on the basis of this rule. I can't say I agree with that. I can't. I know that the common practice in Slovenia is not that much depends on the individual municipality as well, how it sees the humanitarian activity of individual NGOs. As soon as I got acquainted with this case, I assigned a task to the Directorate for Real Property to contact the local authorities in Lithuania and we are trying to solve this case. I don't want this to be a precedent for all of Slovenia now, but in this case, for more than 15 years, the Red Cross was in this apartment or doing this activity for free, and then it happened because of some rule. [[…]] We will certainly try to find a solution to this problem with the mayor or other services of the Lithuanian congregation, because, as far as I am aware at this time, the state does not even have any other business or other place that would not fall under this lease regime. Since, in the event of a business space, the State could, however, rent it free of charge. Of course, we will also get to know you, and you will be in contact in Lithuania with the fact that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I must say that with that first part of the answer, as far as the numbers and these service apartments are concerned, I am satisfied with this second part, a little less, even though you have tried, and I hope that we will actually find a suitable solution to this problem. In fact, there was a problem following the amendment of this Regulation. This Regulation was amended in 2017. It must be said that since 2017 – or even now – there have been some times that are a little better than those before. Given that wages go up, that the situation in Slovenia is being rectified due to economic growth and so on, of course, I would not expect in my dreams that a humanitarian society that has been in this apartment for so many years and that is trying extremely hard to carry out its humanitarian activity, in this entire area collecting money, of course with donations from individuals, businesses and so on, and actually free of charge, do this very important, noble work voluntarily – that they must then pay the rent. I think that's unacceptable, and I'd really like to ask you to find a solution here. It is true, however, that society is in the public interest and would probably find a solution to give the congregation – municipalities usually offer free premises in the public interest, by paying only the costs. I hope they stay in this apartment and have it for free. Otherwise, I offer you a solution; below, there is a complete area of ownership in this apartment block, and I think that the countries where the warehouse is now were once business premises or banks, and there were other state institutions. It seems to me that such rooms, so beautiful in the middle of Lithuania, are somehow not for some kind of warehouse. There's some tables in there with chairs and so on. I look forward to a favourable solution, and I hope that we will all work together to help the Lithium Red Cross. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Of course, because the problem is that it is an apartment and that this activity is carried out in an apartment and then it has fallen into this regime where it is not possible to exempt this company from rent. That is why we have come to the rescue of this matter in another way. Up until now, I didn't know that maybe the state owned these premises in this same building. I will look into it; if that is true, then of course the matter is even easier. In any case, it seems to me that it is unacceptable from the ground that if someone for 15 years has been entitled to not pay this rent, that now due to some rule it is now [[…]] It is true, however, that the only case in the area of all countries is that there is an activity in the apartment, that is, that they are not residents in it, but that there is an activity in this apartment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The next will raise the oral question of the Magi. Meira Hot, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister! Recently, there has been a lot of talk about the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities by law ensuring that parents of blind and visually impaired children who have been deprived of one of the supplements – either an allowance for the care of the child or an allowance for assistance and service – that these supplements are returned. I absolutely support such a proposal, because I believe that the supplement has been wrongly withdrawn and that these injustices must be corrected and corrected. However, I have recently been approached by a group of mothers with severely ill children, who have pointed to another anomaly in marriage and in practice that makes their lives very difficult. In fact, other children who need permanent 24-hour special care and care, such as disabled children, children with severe forms of cerebral paralysis, tetraplegics and similar severely ill children, – well, these children, unlike the blind and visually impaired by PIZ-2, are not entitled to an allowance for help and service. Such children need 24-hour care and care, but many live at home and not in the institution. Parents take care of them, often without any help or support. The Personal Assistance Act, which entered into force at the beginning of this year, provides that a person who has reached the age of 18 is entitled to personal assistance, and therefore does not belong to a minor child with disabilities. There are also many parents who cannot afford to pay someone to care for and care for their children, so they take care of them themselves. It is especially difficult for single - parent families. These children and their parents would still urgently need an allowance to help and serve. Moreover, this right to an additive should be a personal right belonging to these children. This supplement for these children and these families will not be of any standard but will allow them to provide within the family for the basic human needs of all family members. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: Will the Ministry ensure that these disabled children – that is, children who need special care and care and not only are blind and visually impaired – are entitled to both supplements, both to the child’s care allowance and to the allowance for assistance and service? If so, when can we expect changes in the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking. Initially, I would like to explain that as soon as I learned about the problem of appendices for blind and visually impaired children, I acted. So on December 24th, I invited Mrs Andrea Pader and her son Philip to a conversation where my mother explained her difficult path with her son. Right away in the new year, in order to find solutions, I convened a meeting with the State's Attorney and the Ombudsman, where we also explored the legal basis for the preparation of a special law. As you are aware, we have received 25 claims to the Ministry for compensation for the child's care, i.e. the unpaid child allowance, but some parents have already waived their claim. In a number of cases, the Labour and Social Court has already issued a judgment, fully rejected the claims of parents and imposed on them the payment of legal costs, which in individual cases amount to several thousand euros. The parents complained, the Supreme Labour and Social Court rejected their requests. In a specific case, the Supreme Court rejected the proposal for the approval of the audit. However, since some parents are facing difficult situations and also high costs, I immediately came to the rescue. As a result of this, we are already actively preparing a proposal for a special law to remedy these injustices. We will prepare it within the deadline, in accordance with the Commission's decision on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities. With regard to your particular issue and the case, I would like to report that we are currently preparing a law that will deal with blind and visually impaired children. We are certainly aware that other disabled children and children who need special care and care are important. We hear their voices and their parents' voices. It is important to stress, however, that each group must be treated individually and that we will also examine this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you very much. As you have already described, we have also addressed this issue on the Commission for Petitions, we have taken certain decisions, but we should look at the historical side of the whole story. A while ago, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act extended the range of beneficiaries to the allowance for assistance and service to blind and visually impaired children, but then did not extend the right to supplement to the other categories of children that I had previously listed and would necessarily be entitled to this supplement. Why it was like that back then, we don't know. However, given that we have recently raised this issue to address the issue of the appendix in the blind, the visually impaired, I think it is really urgent, meaningful, logical and just question what will happen to the other categories of these very poor, severely ill children who need urgent 24-hour care. Therefore, I ask you to consider extending the range of beneficiaries as part of the legislative amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I also have no answers why such a decision was taken in 2003 which is in some way discriminatory. Absolutely, we will examine all these initiatives and, of course, try to find the right solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Next is Mateja Udovč, who will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandri Pivec an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian Fisheries Institute, in cooperation with Italian partners and local fishing families, will try to prevent the extinction of the fish species of the coastal submersible with the Life for Lasca project. The coastal subsoil only lives in Slovenia and Italy and its population is in decline. This species will try to breed in captivity and repopulate it into the inflows of the Vipava River. To date, the only confirmed reason for the extinction of the coastal subset of the presence of a foreign species is the presence of the alien species. The main threat is the Danube podust, which competes with the coastal atmosphere for a common living space. For the successful re-inhabition of the coastal subdued, it is necessary to prioritise the Danube subdue throughout the Vipava River. The Life for Lasca project is a sustainable project. In this spirit, it was also planned to return the taken specimens of the Danube basin to their original environment of the Danube basin. This would correct or remedy the mistakes made in the past by the then actors, local fishermen. At the same time, the return of fish would strengthen the population in the Danube basin, which has been in severe drought for at least decades, also due to human interventions. Incomprehensible, however, is the opposition of officials in your ministry. The Institute for Fisheries of the Republic of Slovenia is a central professional institution in the field of fisheries in Slovenia set up by the Government with the task of carrying out sustainable management activities to preserve fish life and its diversity. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor Minister: What measures will you take to ensure that the catch of the Danube subsoil from the Vipave River will not be destroyed, but that it will be used to fish the central and lower part of the Sava River with tributaries, where the population of this fish species is already severely weakened by interventions in the Sava River? Will you support and take into account the solutions prepared in the project by the Department of Fisheries? Do you think that we can make new mistakes today to remedy past mistakes due to bureaucratic obstacles and destroy a healthy, strong fish population instead of returning them to its original living environment because this species is already in severe drought because of our interventions?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u186	Thank you very much for the word and, of course, thank you for asking the question. We are already familiar with this issue, of course, also with the content of the project carried out by the Slovenian Fisheries Institute, together with Italian partners and local fishing families. Of course, the problem that arose before the start of this project is well known, and we have also communicated with the Institute for Fisheries, which has informed us about the implementation of this project. The main threat of the coastal cushion in the territory of Slovenia is really the Danube podust, which competes with the coastal atmosphere for the same living space. This also led to the content of the project. However, I cannot agree that we are opposed to this for bureaucratic reasons, because the Fisheries Authority as a central institution, which is responsible for fisheries, is also limiting legislation in this area. The transfer of fish is defined on a legal basis, both in the veterinary field and in the freshwater fisheries legislation. The rules on health requirements for aquaculture animals and products and measures to ensure the prevention and control of certain aquatic animal diseases allow specimens to be introduced into a aquatic body having the same or lower health status as the original aquatic body. The Act on freshwater fishing, which is the umbrella law in the field of freshwater fishing, explicitly prohibits the transfer of live fish from the Danube water zone to the Adriatic Sea and vice versa in the third indent of the third indent of Article 25, which also speaks of prohibitions. Article 26 of this Law, however, allows the Minister responsible for fisheries, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Nature Conservation, to authorise, exceptionally, a certain fishing method, irrespective of the prohibition of Article 25, where necessary for scientific research purposes or in other specifically justified cases. Of course, at the Ministry, we also know this possibility. However, we stress that the exceptions to Article 26 of the Act are only to the possibility of fishing in ways that are prohibited, but not to the transfer of live fish from the Adriatic Sea to the Danube water area or vice versa. Since the Ministry is aware of these issues, it is looking for and proposing and is also making decisions, which must always be in accordance with the legislation. This is also true in a specific case. The Ministry, of course, supports the project and, within the framework of the project, represents professional solutions. Therefore, together with the Slovenian Fisheries Institute, it is looking for both legislative and professional solutions so that it can legally transfer the Danube subsoil from the Adriatic Sea to the Danube water area. In my view, together with the representatives of the Fisheries Authority, they have also found suitable solutions, which at the same time respects legislation and also allows for the transfer of these fish at one intermediate level, meaning that the fish are held for a while in the farm and then released into the river. This, in our view, was the only possible legal solution that the institution is already implementing, according to oral information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Would you like to add? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u188	That means that if I understood you correctly, those fish that are already in the farms that have been fished can be transferred to the Sava River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u190	As I said, according to oral information, this is already happening, and this is a solution that is compatible with the law, while allowing these fish to be transported back later in life, because of course it would be a great shame that these fish should also be put to death.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Ambassador Vojko Starović will ask the Minister of Health an oral question to Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Health care is an important and extensive public sector whose aim is the well-being of the population. Health is a universal value, human rights and, in fact, the most important good, and therefore is a source of health for the individual and society of great importance. These resources are taken care of by the State and also through its special body, the Ministry of Health. Citizens who make payments to the health treasury rightly expect that available resources will be dealt with in such a way as to ensure the highest possible quality and efficiency. The functioning of the healthcare organisation must fulfil social interests such as equal access to services, quality of services, care for citizens' health and sustainable financing. Long waiting periods and limited and untimely access to health services in recent years represent a significant shift from these objectives and requirements. Despite the big words, promises and plans from the past, unfortunately, even in the current mandate, at least not yet, the health sector has not seen any improvement. However, it is urgent and strong to bite into this sour apple, for time works against the many that are needed for medical treatment. Too little money is constantly mentioned as one of the key causes of the extension of waiting species. In the budget rebalancing, we have foreseen 10 million euros for the reduction of waiting periods; in the financial plan of the health insurance company an additional 20 million more; with the amendment of the state sector budget decree for 2018-2020, we earmarked a surplus of 35 million for the reduction of waiting periods. Well, some money is now provided. In addition to the lack of money, the key cause of underadaptation and efficiency of public institutions in health care should be a key cause. At the time of his appointment, the Minister himself assessed and said that there was a great deal of reserve in the organisation, management and staffing to be achieved through appropriate organisational and cadre-related measures, particularly with good governance. What has been done in this area? It has been almost half a year since the government's arrest, so soon it will be around this year too, and we still have no concrete and clear path to how health problems will be resolved. My specific questions for the Minister, who is unfortunately not here today, are: When will waiting species reduction measures be introduced? When will the changes be felt by patients in particular?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Another question, would you like an oral answer to the next meeting or would you like a written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u194	It would be a welcome oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u195	Okay, thanks. He'll be in the next session. Ambassador Matjaž Germany will raise an oral question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Mir Cerar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Minister, welcome! Dear fellows! I'll be extremely brief. It is not the first time that I have addressed you with a question that touches our culture, our cultural heritage. We've been in the past few years, despite the fact that there are only two million of us, about. 2 million and a half of us speak Slovenian, and abroad we were able to worship, like in Galicia or Italy in Sovodnja, what was at least able to understand as a cultural heritage, is said to be our relatives abroad. The Republic of Slovenia responds to these historical moments, which are often tragic, and this time I touch on one another. Like right after the new year, when I addressed you in writing with a question of cultural heritage, which touches mainly the area of current Egypt, I am talking about Cairo and Alexanderines, especially the latter, namely Alexanderines, and of course the world-renowned architect of Slovenian origin Anton Laščak. It has happened in recent years that the Republic of Slovenia has failed to systematically address this issue, i.e. to preserve the Slovenian language, Slovenian inscriptions, Slovenian names where they left the seal. In fact, both Alexanderines and Anton Laszczak made an immense impression not only in Alexandria, but also in Cairo. And, of course, like those positive characters who introduced some wealth into the society at the time and, above all, left their profound impression and fasted the Slovenian heritage there. Of course, I'm talking about the inscriptions that stood at the cemetery. To date, the Republic of Slovenia has not found the right recipe to preserve this cultural heritage in Cairo and Alexandria, where we actually make an impression: all of us Slovenians of Slovenian descent. Dear Minister, without touching the details, they are clearly stated in both the question and the answer. I want to know: When, how and how can we expect this to be resolved? In fact, this is what I missed in the written reply, because it seems to me that, given the amount, I speak financially and also human resources, this could be arranged relatively quickly. I'm familiar with activities not only at the Ministry, but also at the Cairo embassy. The Ambassador has been very involved, but there is a lack of that point on the i: when, how and how we will solve this relatively small problem, but extremely important for Slovenian cultural heritage. And above all, we show a relationship with ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much for this question, honourable Member. Let me say that we are thinking this in the same direction, in the same way, because we all want the architect Laszák as well as other of our great cultural and other minds, the giants who created important things in the world, to be sufficiently recognized and recognized both at home and in the world. Let me say that since you received the written answer to your question, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has continued to be active and so will we in the future when it comes to such a question, either for architect Laschak or for the late Alexanderines in Egypt. In this regard, our Ambassador to Egypt, as instructed by our Ministry, has held several talks with the Egyptian interlocutors, with the representatives of the Italian Embassy in Cairo and with the representatives of the cemetery where the architect is buried. Let me tell you that, in February, the Ambassador of the Republic of Italy came to the information that he informed us that he was aware that more than two years ago there was an initiative to relocate the remains of architect Laščak from Cairo to Gorica, but that process remained unfinished because it was not possible to obtain all these documents, which is why this procedure is no longer up-to-date. Thus, we are now coming to the conclusion that we are somehow cohesive with the Italians, in the same way that, in their view, we would be the most appropriate solution to keep the grave at the Latin cemetery in Cairo, in order to ensure that the inscriptions on the grave are renewed, which is the common concern of both countries, both Italy and Slovenia, and not only for the grave, but also for the promotion of the cultural heritage of the great architect who has spent most of his life in Egypt. On this proposal, the Italian Ambassador will inform his foreign ministry, and we are, of course, prepared to contribute financial resources in this direction, so that the grave will be properly arranged there, with the addition of inscriptions which also promote his cultural, that is, the cultural legacy of our great architect. We also believe that the efforts to protect Laszák's heritage abroad would be much easier to enforce if the status were both formal and material, namely Laszák's heritage, especially the care of Villa Rafut, were properly regulated in the Republic of Slovenia. Both in this respect and in the case and in the case of Alexanderine, we will strive with financial means and in all other ways to arrange these graves, to have appropriate inscriptions there that will remind us of our great architect and his legacy, as well as of the fact that we had Alexanderine and their families in Egypt. There, too, we think that the most appropriate solution, given the situation, would be to arrange a grave where the Slovene woman is buried, so that those tablets, the memorial tablets that now exist, were removed because of the Egyptian burial authorities, would be placed on this common grave, where they would then write to all of our important people what is right, in their memory and which somehow marks their rich and our common rich legacy and heritage. In this way, I guarantee that the ministry will continue to be very active here. In a way, we are also grateful for this initiative of yours, which only encourages the Ministry, that we are coordinated in this direction and that we will do what is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to further explain the matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I don't expect any further explanation, you've told me everything, I just want to predict on the basis of the experience I've gained over the past few years to keep my eye on the result. I know we're on the same wavelength if I put it humanly, but until I see it, I don't believe it. So I predict that at the April session, I will still — either in writing or orally — check the situation because both my role and yours is to resolve the matter. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Ambassador Janja Slug will ask the Minister of Health Sam Fakin a question, which is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I think the Minister is sick, and I would like to ask this question anyway, and I would also like an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Indeed, the Minister likes to communicate in the media, especially with the information that does not yet come to us. Therefore, there is no alternative but to ask him back almost the same way. In December, the Minister announced at the press conference that the Ministry would be actively involved in the management of public health institutions – i.e. hospitals and health homes – and that a mini law would also be drawn up for this purpose, as he stated, in which the management of these public health institutions would change in order to introduce supervisory councils and administrations, as would the personal and property responsibility of supervisors and administrations, as is the case with companies. In a public statement following the 20th meeting of the Government, the minister said that this mini law was in preparation. Once before, we have also heard that he is in preparation and that he will somehow arrive on our bench at the end of January. Now it's the beginning of March and we don't have it yet, so I'd like some answers to my questions. How many members of this bill will be in the administration itself and in the supervisory boards? Who's going to name these members, and where's it coming from? In fact, we know that it is very difficult to get relevant experts in the existing councils of the institutions and that they are already very difficult to do so. What will be the role of the current Council of the Institute and the current management of public health institutions at a time when these changes will only be introduced? In what way does the Minister aim to increase the responsibilities and responsibilities of administrations and supervisors? Above all, I would like an answer here in the light of those public institutions that are in the process or in the process of being rehabilitated, but the Minister is not talking about amending the remaining sectoral legislation and we know that this will be difficult, as the remaining sectoral legislation does not allow such governance. On what basis was General Hospital Celje selected as the trial bunny, as the minister put it, for the first such hospital? Is this consistent with Celje General Hospital? I am particularly interested in this in the light of patients' rights. Economic companies, we know the principle of how they are managed, and at this point, as I have been informed, some programmes and outpatients do not meet the costs they are incurred, so they do not cover costs. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u203	Thank you very much. At the next meeting, you will receive the Minister's oral reply. Marko Bandelli will raise an oral question to Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u204	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister! Following the monitoring of the Kobilana Lipica Act, the importance of its integration into the tourist destination Kras was stressed. The tourist destination Kras has a very elaborate activity, there are Škocjan caves near Lipica as well as Stanjel. Crassus is a recognised gastronomic region and has eight protected products. The parishes of the Kraški municipality want Kobilna Lipica with its tourist offer to become an integral part of the tourist destination Kras. Unfortunately, the progress of events in Lipica is not going in this direction, the closure of Lipica remains. There is no cooperation or involvement of personnel from the environment. In Kobilana Lipica there are still people who see Lipica as a horse farm, for them tourism is disturbing. The behaviour of old and new personnel in Lipica does not lead to progress. There's talk, there's talk, there's talk, there's talk, there's talk, there's talk, there's talk, there's talk. A specific example is the implementation of legal obligations in relation to the implementation of classical training and testing of horse performance, which is the basis for the implementation of selection and genetic progress. Cooperation with institutions and personnel has been suspended in Austria and Germany, where riders from Lipica have practically been trained. The desire for higher quality began in an unfortunate way. The director managed to get rid of former home trainers, Kobilna Lipica for the first time in history without a home coaching staff. In 2017 and 2018 we watched performances of Lipi riders with the implementation of exercises with elements of classical training and school exercises. These horses have been trained domestically. Riders from Lipica took part in training competitions for the World Cup and also took part in the Olympic Games. We miss the programme of the youth training plan – riders and trainers from the environment. The question is, with which horses will we implement the programme in the coming years according to the age of the currently trained horses. The Ministry of Economy and Technology, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Culture is aware of this issue. The Ministry of Economy promised representatives of the environment, municipalities and civil initiatives for Lipica to exchange leadership in Holding Kobilarna Lipica and to engage people from the environment who will understand the working processes in Lipica. My question is: How do you assess cooperation between ministries and a common approach to resolving the situation? Households, mayors and others are interested in whose interest is Lipice being degraded and ousted from the Crassus development process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u206	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Dear Member, Mr Marko Bandelli, thank you for the question, although it is a little different than I have been asked, but I will answer it. The cooperation between the ministries mentioned has already been very good and constructive in the preparation of the Law on Kobilana Lipica. This cooperation is also good in the implementation of the law. With the adoption of the Law on Kobilana Lipica, conditions for the development of tourism activities have been made possible and cultural heritage, including the breeding herd of Lipica horses, will be more adequately protected. On the basis of more than €8 million worth of investment in the historical core and the Kobilarna Lipica estate, which was carried out between 2015 and 2018 under the auspices of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and the results achieved, we ensure that Lipicane and Kobilar Lipica receive all the concerns and attention of the Ministry. These are the key things that have already happened, and they shut up. I certainly agree that Kobilna Lipica is the most recognizable tourist sight of Crassus. According to the new organisation of Slovenian tourism, Lipica is included in the Mediterranean-Kraška macro-region and in the Strategy for the Sustainable Growth of Slovenian Tourism 2017-2021 is exposed to the top 5 experiences of this macro-region. Let me also mention that I also met with the mayors of the Krka municipalities with whom I discussed the importance of Kobilarna Lipica and her offer to develop tourism in the region. We all want the number of visitors and hotel guests to increase. The leadership of Holding Kobilarna Lipica also seeks to do so. In 2018, the company recorded the largest number of visitors in the last 20 years and reached ambitious targets, namely a 14% increase in revenue in the horse activity segment and a 25% increase in income in the hotel and catering segment. The company also has high objectives in the field of classical training and testing of horse performance. The reports of Holding Kobilirna Lipica, d.o.o. show that both the breeding and the breeding of Lipicaans in Kobilana Lipica is carried out in accordance with the breeding programme for Lipica horses. The vision of Kobilarna Lipica as the original kobilar horse breed Lipiscanec is to become an internationally established horse center. It is certainly in the interest of employers, as well as the creators of tourism policy, to employ local staff in tourist companies and to develop tourism companies for the benefit of the individual place and the local population. Of course, good cooperation between the local community and the management of the company is essential for the operation of such a company, especially tourism, and it must be borne in mind that the local community cannot manage the policies of the company in the way it used to be, however, that procurement and training matters took place in the interests of narrow groups of people. I believe it hurts, but the results of the progress indicate that we are on the right track. In preparing the strategy for the sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism, it was also found that personnel in Slovenian tourism are one of its most important unused development potentials for future sustainable development. We are aware that we have human resources problems in Lipica, and we intend to upgrade things in this context and we are also working intensively. We want to tackle this challenge decisively and in all areas, so we have also set up five key human resources development policy measures, together with some resources, with the tourism economy and other stakeholders, in a strategy independent of Lipica, but for all of Slovenia's tourism. Let me also say that in Holding Lipica there are 120 employees, of which 83 locally – Sežana, Lipica, that is 70% of the employees; the remaining employees are from the Kopra, Ajdovščina and Postojna areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u208	Thank you. Minister, because you need to understand me, I, as a representative of voters from Crassus, have to listen to them, listen to them, listen to the employees, listen to those who have cooperated with them, those who participate, and those who have been excluded from cooperation. I believe that you have received one answer from your principal and you can also believe her blindly; but you also believe that it is not exactly what you said. For example, stopping the hotel from rebuilding. Why did the hotel repair stop? We don't know why. There was one answer, but if I get your answer, I'll be happy if I don't. Why it has not yet been confirmed, since it has been legitimately presented to you, it has been proposed by the congregation, and you have not yet accepted it. With regard to the conflict that the director has with the employees, we also know what this is about. It is not right to say that everything is all right, all works forward, are progress; if not. If people aren't happy there, it means something's wrong. That's what I wanted. You know, even those contracts with those new trainers from abroad for 200 000 euros, and they come up five times to ten times, they say five to ten days in one year for 200 000 euros, foreigners with some horses Andalusians who have nothing to do with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u210	Thank you. I'll try to answer for a moment. All these comments have been addressed for more than a year. The fact is, there have been changes in Lipica. The fact is, in the previous period, coaches in Lipica were paid 12 months and worked from April to September. And since this is a change, I repeat, I realize it hurts someone. The fact is, Lipica bought three times more hay than domestic suppliers than her neighbors. We are ready and will always give priority to domestic suppliers, but no one will be able to survive, sitting on Lipica. 3 million public, state-sector funds in Lipica will be spent in a maximum rational manner. We provided Lipica with funds to rebuild the hotel. The hotel will be renovated once we have enough transparent public offerings. But when the tenderers agree and make the system in a way that it's only one, we're not gonna do it. In Lipica we will get to the new hotel in a rational way, in a way that all matters will be concluded in value as described. There's no interruption. Again, Lipice won't be running a civil initiative, but we're talking to her. It's unfair that they keep repeating the same issues over and over again, because we don't have enough people to do that. But we're going to set up human resources, the hotel will be restored, and for the first time in many years, we're having market-oriented events now. No one can deny it, and in the end, the physical and financial results show progress. In Lipica, nothing will be the same as before, when narrow groups have taken the matter from the inside or from the outside, I don't know how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first is Jani Ivanuša, who will raise an oral question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Mir Cerar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u212	Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, the other ministers and all present. In recent months we can read various contributions in Slovenian media about Slovenians living in Venezuela. Slovenians in Venezuela live or do not even live because their incomes are barely enough for the most basic necessities of life — food, transportation, medicine, education, and so on. Security is an even greater problem, as theft, kidnapping and murder also take place on a white day, sometimes in cooperation with security authorities. According to the media, some Slovenians living in Venezuela would like to return to Slovenia and have problems when applying for Slovenian citizenship. Among the conditions for obtaining citizenship is that the candidate must be included in Slovenian society. Due to financial and security conditions, Slovenian companies in Venezuela do not operate. The second problem is financial, as it is necessary to pay translations into Slovenian and for fees for obtaining citizenship. This seems to be a source of real wealth from Venezuela’s income. The least Slovenia can do is offer help to all Slovenians. All who want to move to Slovenia should be able to do so immediately — without bureaucratic obstacles. I'll get some information. The minimum wage in Venezuela – of course for the one it has – is on average 65 US dollars or 52 euros. According to the data available, there are 300 Slovenians with permanent residence in Venezuela. About 650 of them went to this country in the previous century. Now it is estimated at about thousands of Slovenian citizens with their descendants worth it. As I mentioned earlier those citizenship fees, all these citizenship costs amount to EUR 290 to 340. We also have one Lipa contact society from Trebnje, which otherwise helps these people in Venezuela, but for the time being they have only received a criminal investigation, at least so I am familiar with it. We also have company in Caracas. The method and Cyril set up by the late priest Griltz. Today, for example, the neighbouring country of Hungary has just allowed 300 descendants of Hungary or Hungarian citizens to return to their native Hungary. My question is, Mr. Minister Cerar: As Foreign Minister of Slovenia, how will you help the Slovenians in Venezuela? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. I am pleased, although the matter is extremely dramatic, that you too rightly see that there is indeed a strong political, economic and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. Some want to minimize this matter in Slovenia. It's a very dramatic matter. And it is true, even people of Slovenian origin and our citizens are in some way threatened by existence, in a normal way of life, so they need to be helped. In some ways, in general, we will help them most in the long term if they stay there, by supporting the European Union's actions and also by actively participating in this when it comes to humanitarian aid when it comes to promoting an appropriate solution to this political crisis, to democratise the system; in short, the situation in the country is improving democratically. But when it comes to things that you mentioned specifically when it comes to these thousands of people of Slovenian origin and up to 300 of our citizens who live there, it is mostly citizens who have, when we talk about these thousands, also Venezuelan citizenship. We'll have to be more specific here. Let me say that, within the remit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which monitors developments through the Embassy in Brazil – this is a non-resident embassy, but is now closely connected with Slovenian citizens and also with the community as a whole in Venezuela – there is absolutely still very active. However, I would also like to point out that we have always warned that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia can also turn to the representation of any other Member State of the European Union if there is urgent consular assistance, such as in the case of hospitalisation, deprivation of liberty or the issuance of a passport for return. As I said, we will do everything we can to remove certain administrative obstacles, to act quickly and decisively and to simplify procedures as much as possible. When we talk about repatriation, which means that some people would go to their original homeland, we call it evacuation in the professional public, it is a great consular, political and logistical challenge. It is not only a safe departure, but also to provide some acceptable conditions for life in Slovenia after arrival. There have been no such requests for repatriation in recent years, but they are governed by the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders. In this case, if such situations and requests were to occur, our ministry would provide a safe exit from the country, in this case Venezuela, to Slovenia or to another safe location. However, when it comes to acquiring the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, there is a possibility here of an extraordinary naturalisation procedure where the applicant must demonstrate that the granting of citizenship benefits him, the country of Slovenia in terms of scientific, economic, cultural, national or similar reasons. In the case of a Slovenian emigrant or his progeny to a second generation or a member of the indigenous Slovenian national community in exchange, he may apply to the application for such citizenship the benefit of the State for national reasons. Here you have rightly found that in this case, when it comes to a national reason, it must prove a multi-annual personal active relationship with the Republic of Slovenia or at least five years active in Slovenian societies abroad and so on. And here, for these procedures, if there should be any relief, simplification, any changes, the competent Ministry of the Interior, because this is all regulated under the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia. Here we will also call for the Ministry of the Interior to examine these matters, closely monitor the situation and, if necessary, take action within its remit. As I have already warned myself in the past weeks, we are also monitoring the situation, especially how this situation concerns our Slovenian community, our citizens in Venezuela. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will, I repeat, do everything in its power to help simplify procedures and to alert other ministries, such as the Ministry of the Interior, to carry out these simplifications as necessary and to monitor the situation further. The government will be active, thank you for this question, because it is very important that we work together in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u216	Mr. Secretary, you said something, but I'm still not happy with your answer. All I heard was: we will, we will, we will; I'd like to hear more: we are, we are, we are. Such a question was raised in the 10th month 2017 by Mr Breznik and the answer was this: How did the state of Slovenia help our people in Venezuela? No, nothing or nothing so far. You were then Prime Minister of the Government, the Foreign Minister was Mr Erjavec. At the time, you were assessing as good and open questions with the state of Venezuela, that was the answer. As far as these costs are concerned, or we are talking about this membership in society. Guys aren't working. That's what I warned you. They can't even work because the country is a mess, and there can't be contacts, and there's no money for people to get together, and so on. We should be a little more flexible or flexible here so that no five-year membership or membership is needed. It's our people. I'm sure I'd rather see Slovenians returning to our homeland than drag these migrants into our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u218	Yeah, I'll be brief because we speak the same language. We all want to help our citizens, the Slovenians and people of Slovenian origin in Venezuela as well as Venezuela as such, that is, all of them; for there is a humanitarian disaster and needs to be helped more. As regards our citizens or Slovenians, people of Slovenian origin, let me reiterate that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in its procedures in the coming days, weeks, will remove all unnecessary administrative obstacles. On the one hand, however, it is necessary to have appropriate requests, requests, applications or at least something to see that some interest on the part of these Slovenians is concrete in order to come home or elsewhere if we are talking about this; in this case, we will act. On the other hand, through the Ministry of the Interior, which are now possible to remove administrative or other obstacles to such procedures. These are matters that are under study, as this situation has culminated only in recent months until this point that these requirements have emerged at the official level. In this respect, we will continue our activities. As I said, at the Ministry, I will work with my colleagues in the government so that, as a government and as a ministry, we can ensure that these people are helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u220	However, I am not satisfied with what I have heard, but I would ask, in accordance with Rule 276 of Article, that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 6. 3. In the context of the votes. The following question will be asked orally by Member Zeljko Cigler, Minister of Health Sam Fakin, who is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u222	Your Honor, thank you very much. One year ago, the National Assembly adopted the Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme 2018-2028. In order to achieve the objectives of this programme, which is set out for 2018 to 2028, its appropriate coordination, quality and effective implementation, which is also supported by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, is essential. In this regard, I am interested in: In 2019 will financial resources be provided in line with the Action Programme for the selected priority actions, and this Action Programme will be linked to 2018-2020? In accordance with the 2018-2020 Action Programme, will financial resources be provided in 2019 to ensure accelerated and planned specialisation in clinical psychology? In Slovenia we face a chronic lack of clinical psychologists, which is reflected in long waiting lines and unfortunately also in inadequate treatment of people with mental health problems. Does the Ministry of Health plan to strengthen staff in the field of mental health, in line with the action programme, where two additional jobs are planned for this purpose, in order to cover the area of mental health and the implementation of this programme I am talking about? Can we expect an appropriate legal regime in 2019 for psychotherapy and its inclusion in interdisciplinary treatment of people with mental health problems? Is the functioning of the Government's Mental Health Council in place? If not, why not and when will it be? The functioning of the Government Council is crucial in monitoring and carrying out the activities of the national programme in accordance with the national programme. As a government consultative body, its most important role is the annual monitoring of the objectives of this programme. The establishment and functioning of the Council is therefore crucial in the implementation of the mental health programme and at the same time in the decision-making of priority actions in the field of mental health in the future. And I would also like to say this because so far there are no mechanisms in place at the primary level to help children and adolescents in mental health, as well as older ones, so that personal doctors are more material and time-consuming. And if this matter were to come from our program adopted by this National Assembly, personal physicians would also be relieved in this regard. However, I would like to point out what you pointed out last year to those who were in this National Assembly, one information – poor mental health in Slovenia means 3-4% of gross social product loss and 65% of the costs associated with this are out-of-health. The matter is very important, and I hope the Minister will give me the right answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u223	Does that mean you want an oral response?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u224	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u225	It is said that this will be included in the next meeting of the assembly. The next question will be the oral question put by Mr Boris Doblekar, Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertonclj, and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A nice welcome to both ministers, namely the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer! I have a question about paying employers' contributions to workers. This topic was very topical a few years ago. However, since such cases, i.e. cases of default, outstanding obligations, are still emerging and if we look at the Furs website, we can see for ourselves that this list is extremely long and there are so many companies on this list that it is actually a matter of concern. I understand that sometimes it is difficult, including the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises and others, that there was also a need to look more realistically at why this payment did not come or why it was late; but I think the matter is quite worrying if we look at these lists. I have this question raised on the case itself, i.e. in the case of a worker who lost his job or quit his job in the company precisely because he came to the conclusion that his employer had not paid any contributions so far; and he was also apprehensive and found another solution. I therefore ask both ministers, because of course it concerns both ministers, namely: How many contributors were there in 2017 and 2018? How many financial fines have been issued, perhaps even prison sentences for this? How many inspections were carried out on REK forms? Does an inspection for work or Furs have an insight into the eTax application, which is clear that it has, since it is its domain, taxable persons, where it is clearly recorded, whether the contributions have been settled or not? I want to know: Can the tax administration or labour inspectorate see this information at any time, individually, for each individual; can he view it as a whole? Does such an insight into this eTax app have a view of an individual debtor who actually sees some data? About that later on, so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Andre Bertonclja's Minister of Finance is not here right now, so I'm sorry, he's here. [[…]] First of all, I give my word to Minister Andre Bertontz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u228	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. In the opening, let me explain that, in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia exercises control over the legality, regularity and timeliness of the accounting and payment of social security contributions. In 2018, to provide some information, EUR 6 billion 959 million of social security contributions were paid by Furs at the ZPIZ Treasury and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia; that is 7.1 % more than 2017. On 31 December 2018, the debt of the PPIZ and the health treasury, where most social security contributions are made, amounted to EUR 335 million, EUR 292 000, which is 11 % less than the year before. The situation in this area is improving. For the period 2017, an average of 3 000 398 employers published forms on Furs’ websites on the REK non-proposal list. In addition, thousands of 726 inspections were carried out in the field of tax control over the collection and payment of contributions in 2017 and more were carried out in 2018, i.e. a thousand 839 checks. In 2018, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia filed 81 complaints and 131 % more than in 2017, as a result of a criminal offence against workers' fundamental rights. The Financial Administration shall carry out all procedures to achieve the fulfilment of its obligations by the employer, i.e. payment of salaries, billing and payment of taxes and contributions. In doing so, officials shall have access to all the information they need in their work. Maybe more information, as you mentioned, about a specific case. Indeed, Furs publishes these data on his websites, so that employees are also available, in the section Missing Tax Accounts and in the records of the tax authority for the applicant or applicant, for example: they are recorded or not recorded in all individual REK forms for monthly wages. This is the case if this has not been done for a certain period and a specified period is specified. The date of the last payment of income from the working relationship in the calculation of the tax withdrawal, these are the so-called REK forms, and then the last date or cut date is given. And what information can employees find on the website? For its information, this is the information on the contributions charged and paid. The calculated amount from the REK forms, that is the sum of euro, and the figures on payment and non-payment. If it is a payment, yes, if it is non-payment, it is a “no”. This includes contributions to the worker’s burden, i.e. insured persons, data on pension and disability insurance, health insurance, parental care and employment. And contributions to the burden of the employer, it is pension and disability insurance, health insurance, parental care, employment and injury at work. As it is said, the data on payment, and this is crucial for each insured person, is also an answer for each section either yes or no. If yes, it means that these contributions have been paid, if no, and the date adjusted to; and this is the date by which the last settlement was made, since then these contributions have not been paid. Employers, such as insured persons, can have a good look at their situation or to what extent the employer has contributed to it, that is, the insured person, actually paid. And of course, we are actively fighting this when they were, when was this last cut-off date when the payment of these contributions stopped.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u229	Thank you very much. There's only a few seconds left. Probably not enough to answer. Nine seconds, minister. If you want, you can, but there's not enough time, I'd probably go on. But first, I apologize to the Minister for my inattention because I missed that change during my reading. I now give the floor to the Member to complement the explanation of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank you, Minister, for a very detailed answer, which I have also been interested in, and also all interested in, is true of the workers who should all know these procedures or well know how this application eDavki works so that they can also properly explain what they are looking at. Still, I would ask further questions or ask the Minister of Mags. Xenio Klampfer to further explain the issue from his point of view, his field. This information, which Dr Bertonzel, Minister of Finance, has said, is a bit of a concern, a little bit worse than last year, and a broader debate on how to deal with these issues should be reopened. Furs' list of these companies, where there is no accountable contribution, is really wide when a person looks at it, he sees that companies are so big that you can barely find anything. But up there are these data on current non-payers. I'm not talking about the eTax app, I'm talking about that website; if someone paid later, it's not visible. It is also worrisome that if, for example, the employer is not on the list, he does not necessarily pay contributions. But these are things that might have to be worked out a little bit better. Now I will wait for the answer, and then I will add something in the proposal for a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u232	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. From the point of view of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, it is important, above all, to make progress at systemic level, in the area of the system of control over the payment of salaries and the payment of social security contributions brought by the amendment of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, so-called SPIZ-2E. This law laid down the new competence of the Financial Administration to impose fines on employers, their responsible persons, if it finds in the tax supervision that the employer did not submit a tax invoice because he did not pay his salary. In this way, legal and social security of workers is ensured, while at the same time preventing possible acts and the grey economy. The purpose of the scheme brought by this novelty is to ensure that the entire period of pension insurance is taken into account for workers who do not have an influence on the calculation of social security contributions; while at the same time informing the insurers of the consequences of non-payment of contributions, i.e. non-recognition of salaries in the determination of the pension base, non-recognition of the pension age, and the legal possibilities they have for the protection of their rights, together with an invitation to the insurer to express their remuneration, including its level. However, the employer shall be informed that he must pay his salary if he has not done so and provide for the payment of the tax deduction, otherwise he shall commit an offence for which the fine is prescribed. At the Ministry, we are aware that the worker is the weaker customer in relation to the employer, so we are always looking for an arrangement that would be as pleasant and as simple as possible for him. In this way, the law protects the worker as the most vulnerable category of insured person in circumstances which are not affected by it and is therefore granted an insurance period irrespective of the payment of the contributions. The Inspectorate shall carry out, in accordance with Article 2 of the Labour Inspection Act, inspection of the implementation of laws and other regulations, so that, in relation to the case specifically exposed, it may be explained that the view of the information system shows that the employer has not been dealt with by the Inspectorate in the last two years and has not received any applications against him. The report of alleged violations of labour law, which also relates to the payment of wages, was received by the inspectorate on 28 February this year in a specific case. An inspection will be carried out with the employer, findings can be reported upon completion of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Doblekar, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank the Minister very much, too. In the question I raised, of course, we did not specifically raise names, which of course is also right. But I'm glad you have a review of these non-payments to monitor. But it is true that individual workers who are actually weaker than employers who have such problems, and when that happens, often do not know where to turn to get what belongs to them. And many times they don't know who to turn to. The unions, too, and not having anything against the unions, but I think we should play a much bigger role in raising awareness of such matters. I am also taking the initiative, and I am also proposing, or I will suggest in the general debate, if it comes to educational institutions, schools, employment institutions, the media, that the government devote some resources to advertising to promote this website and this eDavki application, who can use it, when can use it and how it can use it. And also NGOs could approach VEM points so that in fact any worker would be aware that he knows what his rights are to look at this application. It has a possibility, the state has made it possible and the matter is working. The only problem is that workers don't know it, employees don't know it, or they don't know enough because they're not conscious. When it's too late, it's too late, and then they don't know what they're gonna do to make it pay. In such a case as this case, on which I have raised this question, the worker has completely given up and has also resigned from this company. If this company does not pay its salary, it will not pay its contribution, which is normal. But if he doesn't pay his salary and the worker still works, it's a crime. However, that the company pays wages and does not at the same time settle obligations for these social contributions, this is not the same thing. And I propose that we also discuss this issue again in the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 6 March, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandri Pivec an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u236	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Madam Minister, I'm going to ask you a question about tying dogs to chains. Many Western European countries, as well as some Eastern European countries, such as Hungary, have already banned dog tying to chains. There are many reasons for this. The first and main is that in countries where this practice exists, so that a dog can be tied to a chain and can be left tied there indefinitely, it greatly impairs the mental and physical health of animals. Many dogs that live this way have different mental disorders, are aggressive, are alienated, hunt their own tails, some also have physical injuries to their necks, spines and the like. The problem is that it is nothing special for us to say that a dog buys it or adopts it, and when he gets tired of it, he practically leaves it in front of the house for the rest of his life. We also have cases where dogs are there in winter or in very unpleasant weather conditions without adequate shelter and so on. That's why I'm asking you: Are you thinking or are you willing to talk about a similar change that many countries have already accepted, including us? Over the last month, there has been an online petition signed by more than 10,000 people against tying dogs to chains. They're calling for power. They're calling for the National Assembly, the government, the Ministry of State to change the regulations. This is currently governed by the Regulation on the Protection of Pets, which lays down only framework, loose regulations such as chain lengths and the like; but control here is inadequate, and at the same time these standards are entirely too general or inconsistent. It is not just the cubs or the pregnant dogs that are tied together, but it is difficult to punish a man who binds a dog to virtually all his life in front of a house and leaves him there half-forgotten. I want to know: Are you prepared — since we also have the chapter Animal Welfare in the Coalition Treaty — to make changes in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u238	I thank you for the question, and I agree that this is an extremely sensitive issue. I am also aware of the petition that is being signed, but before I answer quite concretely, let me explain some of the things that are defined by this regulation, which you yourself have mentioned. The Animal Protection Act lays down, inter alia, the responsibility of people to protect animals, that is to protect their lives, health and welfare, and rules for their welfare and treatment of animals. The Regulation on the Protection of Pets lays down minimum housing standards also in the possession of a dog. The rules on the protection of pet animals provide for cases where the dog is bound: the length of the strap measured on the ground shall be at least three times the length of the dog; the dog shall not be bound with a stiff, staby or tight collar; the weight of the tying shall not exceed one twelfth of the weight of the dog. Dogs less than six months old, and highly pregnant dogs and puppies with puppies are not allowed to have tied up, but they must have adequate housing to provide them with protection against precipitation, wind, frost and sunburn, preventing the escape of animals and allowing for the necessary movement. If the dog is out there, he must have a dog and an oat or another equivalent shelter. If the external temperature is below 0 degrees Celsius, the dog must have a properly insulated living space. Dogs with puppies and sick dogs must have a living room in which the temperature must not be lower than 20 degrees Celsius. In the living room of the dog there must not be substances or objects in which the dog could be harmed or would endanger their health. The caregiver must clean the dog’s living space regularly and remove the waste daily. The Regulation also lays down the minimum size of a dog, together with an oat, depending on the dog’s weight and the number of animals in the dog. The dog’s mouth must be large enough to allow the dog to lie in it normally, stand up, and turn around. Dogs are not allowed to be accommodated or locked in a room without natural light where the dog does not see its immediate surroundings or space without sufficient radiation. Official veterinarians shall, on the basis of legislation, check the living conditions of dogs and, in the event of irregularities or infringements found, of course, have the legal right and the duty to act in accordance with the rules. As far as your specific questions are concerned. Whether these matters are governed by the Animal Protection Act, I have just said that this rule is governed by law. What European countries have eliminated the legal possibility of using chains for dogs? According to the information available to us, for which there was a real short period for which they had not been in administration, the prohibition has been enacted in Hungary since 1 January 2016 and in Malta since 2018. Since 2017, Croatia has a legal ban on the permanent tying or closing of dogs, which means that they must have a certain time of movement and then a shorter time of attachment. What is the possibility that the process can also be resolved in Slovenia? In Slovenia, dog tying is currently permitted under the law. Above all, the explanation is that this is due to the exceptional traditionality and the element of traditionality in the rural area where dogs are still attached, so we have also regulated this rule as to what the conditions of attachment must be. Next, we are considering how to eliminate the permanent attachment or imprisonment of dogs to dogs. To this end, we will also include, in future additions to the Regulation on the Protection of Pets, a condition where it will be determined how much time and movement the owner must provide to his dog daily. But I am very inclined to do so, and I will also instruct the preparers to explore all possibilities for a complete ban on tying or to make arguments, why it is possible to have a limited attachment and what are those things that would be in favour of a complete attachment. In line with the coalition commitments, we will certainly consider this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the explanation of your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u240	Thank you so much for the answers. I know the rule, and in fact the most in my eyes is that there is no regulation on permanent attachment, which I think would be the first thing to do. Otherwise, I fully agree with you that we need to think about more humane solutions than we have in neighbouring countries, this is a complete ban on tying dogs on chains. Instead, it is easy to measure, what surface, but properly fenced, the dog needs, what kind of dog must be inside and so on. I think these are simple administrative solutions that we can implement very quickly. And finally, I want to know: In what time frame can we expect a ministry action in this direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u242	We have already spoken in addition to the topic mentioned today in general about the things we will do in the field of animal welfare. And one of the planned activities is also to amend that rule. Perhaps even more so because of this petition, which is currently in the process of signing, I will insist that this rule will go into effect as soon as possible, I believe that in this year's year; and that, above all, we will give very good consideration to the possibility of going with one gradual approach, where we could limit the time of attachment in some interim period and then set the date with which it goes to a complete ban on tying.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Ambassador Janja Slug will raise an oral question to Minister of Health Sam Fakin, who is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u244	Thank you very much. As with the previous question, I will ask the Minister to give me an oral answer to my question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. This issue, however, relates to the Law on Integrated Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs, adopted by this National Assembly in 2017, and the law began to apply as from 1 January of this year. I'm getting information from the field across different channels that there are a lot of problems on the ground about the implementation and implementation of this law. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What is the problem that the full implementation of the law itself has not yet been ensured? How and when does the Ministry of Health intend to solve this problem and ensure that the law that is good, which is needed, will not remain just a dead letter on paper? In particular, I would point out that this is a vulnerable group of children and their parents, i.e. entire families, for which every day when the law is not implemented, is also of great importance for their further consideration, particularly this rate of approach and treatment of each individual child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Your oral request will be included in the next meeting of the assembly. Ambassador Maša Kociper will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags an oral question. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u246	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, hello! Since 2002, I have been working in the field of mediation. I have been monitoring this area practically since something has happened in Slovenia. And, of course, I also have in hand the future rules on mediators or the Rules on Mediation under the Family Code. I am very glad that mediation matters are also going on here. Personally, I still believe that mediation is a way not only of faster and much cheaper, but also of better resolution of disputes, which can lead to agreements that are even longer-term, maintain a relationship and so on, which is particularly important when it comes to family matters. The various statistics I have seen in the past also show that when ex-partners or other relatives involved in various family disputes are able to agree on an agreement, this is absolutely in the interests of the child and significantly reduces the costs not only of the people involved, but also of the countries with regard to new procedures, executions, re-delegations and so on. I also support this settlement of disputes in this area. As I understand it, it's a matter of resolving family disputes or disputes under the Family Code before they get to court. We have established programs in court. What bothered me, however, was a somewhat different regime in force in this area. In Slovenia and abroad, a standard of basic education has been established in almost all countries for about 40 hours. 40 hours of basic education is a minimum which, according to experience, has all the necessary content to be able to work as a mediator. The following standard is a practical test at the end of this education and then one begins to gain experience in practice. The request for 120 hours of basic education is, in my opinion and in the opinion of many who are involved, for the first time, excessive and, secondly, extremely expensive for external mediators. The Regulation provides that these mediations may be carried out by CSD staff as well as external staff. In this regard, I have two questions: What is the reason for such a large number of hours of basic education that deviates from the other demands of ministries, societies and so on? Is it favoured in this sense by the CSD employees who will be paid by the state, by some external mediators who will have to or have to pay for it themselves; and which we have huge amounts in Slovenia? We have a lot of mediators who want to work, who have done education, but unfortunately they have no opportunity to carry out mediation in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u248	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. In opening, I would like to point out that one of the objectives of updating the family legislation, which is from 15. 4. brings about the beginning of the application of the Family Code, including the promotion of conflict resolution in family law relations through mediation. The advantage of mediation lies in its effectiveness, the mutual acceptability of the solution, and consequently the number of trials is significantly reduced. Mediation during the proceedings is already in place, introduced by the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act, which was adopted in 2009. In addition, the Family Code provides that mediation may be carried out either with or after the trial. It will be implemented by social work centres and mediators listed by the Ministry responsible for the family. A sub-legislative act, so-called the Rules for the Implementation of the Mediation under the Family Code, regulates mediation prior to the initiation of a judicial procedure and mediation after a judicial procedure. That Regulation will define in more detail the mediation procedures, namely how to keep a list of mediators, the conditions for listing mediators, training of mediators, supervision of the work of mediators, handling complaints, criteria for the composition of the Commission for the supervision of the work of mediators. With regard to your question, on what basis was the decision taken on the necessary level of basic education. It should be clarified that this is still a draft regulation and that the solutions to this part are not yet complete and are subject to coordination. The Rules on the Award and Reimbursement of Travel Costs for Mediators operating in Court Programmes provide for compulsory training of 40 hours, which is also assessed by the providers of these trainings to be sufficient. Such an opinion was also expressed by the Association of Mediators of Slovenia. The opinion was also agreed by the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. On the other hand, operators associated with the Association of Mediation Organisations of Slovenia, as well as the CSD Community, stressed that education should cover at least 200 hours. At the Ministry, we are trying to find the most appropriate solution and we agree that quality education for mediators must first be provided; as stated in the introduction, the final decision on the number of hours has not yet been taken. As regards the required quota for compulsory annual education to be paid on the market by mediators themselves; otherwise, it does not. The Rules on Mediators in Court Programmes provide that a mediator must attend further mediation education in each calendar year for at least 12 teaching hours. However, the draft regulation on the implementation of mediation under the Family Code provides that a mediator must attend further mediation education for a total duration of at least 36 teaching hours over a period of three consecutive years. This means that, on average, the mediator has to attend 12 hours of further education per year, but in which of the three years of this three-year period he may participate in a larger education period, which means that his obligation in the remaining two years is reduced in proportion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u249	Thank you very much. You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I missed that extra education for three hours. I'm sorry. However, I have carefully examined the rules and many things have been arranged in line with others; also, the tariff remains shamefully small – €17 gross for half-hour of mediation. Then you know how much people who work under contracts get for an hour of mediation of €34 gross. However, what you have warned may be part of the problem; it may be about basic education. I don't want to imply anything, I don't think anyone is mean or anything, but just one provider in Slovenia, and it's involved in this association, offering 120 hours of basic education for mediation. I can follow that more education is better, of course, in every field. But I'd like to warn you again. People who choose to meditate don't choose to earn it because it's small. They do this in addition to their other jobs and pay for their own education. 120 hours for outside operators wishing to enter is a huge cost. Even for the country, this cost is three times higher than 40 hours, which is a shame if this standard is sufficient. And as far as continuing education is concerned, there is another pain. Mediators are largely not able to mediate because there are not enough disputes; at the same time, one of them demands that they invest in an additional 12 hours each year, which, of course, is cashed by the bidders, no one gives it for free. And then they don't have a chance to work, and they had to pay for those 12 hours. I really am calling for further consideration, and I am also available for consultation. We started the mediation in court in 2002, even before the marriage, so I'm happy to help if I can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u252	Thank you very much for all the initiatives and concrete proposals. As it is said, the rules are still in public debate, we will once again examine matters and of course contact you to try to find the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Ambassador Marko Bandelli will raise an oral question to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical, who is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u254	Thank you, Chairman. The Honourable Minister, Dr. Jerney Pikalo. News is heard in the public when certain students with a valid decision do not stay in student homes or institutions; rather, they broadcast their rooms in return. The supervision of such sale of decisions is impossible and ineffective in the light of the system regime, and consequently students who comply with all the criteria are not entitled to the beds. The Ministry shall issue a joint invitation to accept and extend the stay of students of higher education in student homes and in private schools each year. In the study year 2018/2019, 11 000 926 beds were sold together in Ljubljana, of which 4 thousand 50 for new residents. According to some information, the so-called stay in black is served by 10% of people, which means that if the problem were resolved, the number of students waiting for a room in Ljubljana in early February would be reduced from about 600 to 200. The institutions shall define in their home order the surrender, reselling or making use of the bed for non-residents of the institution or persons who do not have the right to stay in the institution as an infringement by withdrawing the decision; and the preliminary stage of internal control shall be limited. I want to know: Are any measures being taken that would have been more rigorously monitored? It is unacceptable that subsidised stay is used by persons who are not entitled to it, and even more so by the fact that eligible students are forced to seek other solutions. Thank you for your oral response to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-04-SDZ8-Redna-05.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We will grant your wish. The list of applicants has been exhausted. Ambassador Bandelli was the last to raise an oral question. I thank the President of the Government, the Ministers and the Ministers for the answers given. I interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 6 March 2019, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I also adjourn the fifth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good-bye, good-bye. (The sitting was suspended by 4.) MARCH 2019 AT 17.41.)
