ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Maša Kociper, mag. Bojana Muršič, Victory Jelinčič noble, Igor Zorčič from 3 p.m. on, Nick Prebil until 1 p.m., Anja Bah Žibert, mag. Andrej Shercelj and Jerca Korče from 13:30 to 16:00. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of the Court of Justice to the 15th item of the agenda, mag. Mr Alenko Bratušek, Minister of Infrastructure and in the function of Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, to agenda items 13 and 14 and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. Once again, I welcome everyone here. Dear Members, we are moving on to the agenda of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 6 December 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against nothing. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 14th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received a written application of 49 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask questions. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question; Members and Members, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister; this shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. The Member who has asked a question to which he has not received an answer may insist on an oral reply, in which case I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Miroslav Cerar, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, Minister of the Interior of Boštjan Poklukar, Minister of Defence Mr Karl Erjavec from 15:00 on, Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr. Zdravko Počvalšek and Minister of Infrastructure and in the function of Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, mag. Alenka Bratusek. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarec. Mr Jan Mahnic will be the first to ask him the question. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government, the Council of Ministers! Sove Director Rajko Kozmelj said in one of his interviews about the recruitment of Owls: “We also overwinded the agency’s staffing, transparency and expertise because of such cases from the past. On arrival, I introduced employment through public tendering. We have decided to acquire and renovate work resources to improve working conditions. We have offered additional management education to management staff.” In view of what followed, we can see that those words of the director of the Owl were only sand in the eyes at the time, for we soon found that this famous public call, where they were requested, literally some jamesbondian conditions, is said to be an elite who will be employed in Owl, is for some. For others, there are completely different conditions for those who are closer to this government or to the Prime Minister. Thus, in October, she reflected the controversial employment of the Prime Minister’s acquaintance, N. H., who was employed in Owl. At that time, the President of the Government said publicly that this employment was everything by the book and nothing was wrong. Clearly at the time, he knew that something was very wrong, and it was evident that, together with the director of the Soviet Union, the Government had made it impossible for the Commission to control intelligence services over this employment. He proposed to the Inspectorate that he exercise control and, despite the fact that the Inspectorate had jurisdiction over only some formal matters which he could look at but not substantively, he nevertheless found serious infringements. It is most obvious that the invitation to tender, according to the requirements that are written here, has been adapted. Imagine that for a job in the department of international activity, knowledge of the official language is a condition of knowledge of the official language. Since Slovenia is a member of the European Union, it is clear that the official language is Slovenian. However, in the workplace in question, a higher level of foreign language knowledge was only desirable. Some other things also show that this invitation was obviously made for a specific person. That is why, Mr. President of the Government, I am interested in the following: How do you comment on the inspector's findings regarding employment in Owls? How do you comment on the clearly modified invitations to tender in Owls? Did you have any influence on any employment in Owl or on anyone you asked to hire in Owl? When was the last time you communicated with an employee at Owl N? H., what was the talk? The president of the government often quoted former Prime Minister Janez Janša as saying: “KNOVS is not competent to decide who will be employed in the Owl.” I absolutely agree with that. However, he does not yet say the sentence followed by Prime Minister Janša: “The Government does not have these powers.”
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. To begin with, James Raymond McCarthy would be very proud of you, all members of the KNOVS, because you've turned this into the McCarthy Commission and you're hunting witches. And I would also like to remind you that when we took over the government, the Slovenian intelligence and security agency struck. She has spent 11 months doing this, which is a very unique condition for such a job. The director of the agency, whom our government has re-appointed, immediately revived social dialogue and managed to break the sentence. The Owl has been able to focus again on basic activities – this is gathering information that is important for our country and for national security. This year, for the first time in government, when the secret annual report of the Soviet Union was adopted, we published a summary report without a degree of secrecy. For the first time in 20 years, we have also published a public invitation to work in Owl. The application was over 850. This has never happened before. Some are already employed in Owl; in other cases, the procedure is just before the end. By doing so, we have shown that we know what we want to know, that we want the Owl to operate transparently where it is and as far as possible. Your client ran the government twice, and she never did. Let me also point out that we have also allocated additional resources to the Owl to meet the challenges ahead. We adopted the Resolution on National Security, we wanted to give additional powers to the Owl to be prepared to face the challenges of radical threats, and it was you who threw it out. So you have security on the one hand all the time in the language and in practice you act differently. However, the security of the Republic of Slovenia is our fundamental priority. You're reading my clientele, you're reading to me, I don't know what's going on yet, but you're the last one who can do it. You on the basis of some false news on a portal that tells me the relationship and I don't know what else, based on this, your very good KNOVS is going to hunt, and now we're going to get the Prime Minister, and now the Prime Minister is hiring, as he employs and so on. You've been chasing this for months and you've been referring to the inspectorate. Yes, Owl herself asked the Inspectorate for supervision because you started such and different rumors. The Inspectorate made it clear, and I think the inspector also said that, probably at the closed session of KNOVS, where you were, because you are sitting at KNOVS on one side and you are questioning there, and on the other hand you are asking me here on the open stage. Yes, the inspectorate said its own, there were some systemic irregularities, two jobs in the previous mandate and two jobs in this mandate. And wherever the inspectorate goes in the public sector, it will be able to detect such and other irregularities. The point is that none of these irregularities affects the correctness of the choice of procedure. Here you do the same as Croatia does at the arbitration. There, too, the court made it clear that arbitration was in force and Croatia unilaterally withdrew. Just like you here now interpret the Inspectorate's findings in your own way. The Sova will take into account the findings of the Inspectorate, I expect from the Director, and will also address these minor irregularities of administrative nature. Definitely. And the fact that we've been talking about this for three months now based on some publication on some portal tells us all about this KNOVS, which you're members of, like I said, this McCarthy Commission that would like to achieve something in any way. Yes, I will also quote Mr Janez Janša when he was Prime Minister: “Who will be employed in Owl and whose criteria must be met is defined in the systematisation, and employment is carried out by procedures that are slightly specific and are essentially the same as in the entire state administration.”
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u5	Mr. President, thank you for your reply. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u6	Since I didn't get an answer to any of the questions, I'm going to take that first part out of context, and I'm going to explain the end of the sentence on Owl by hiring this N.H., which obviously affected the end of the sentence on Owl. Mr. Prime Minister, employment without meeting the conditions is not a systemic error. Now look at the condition for employment. One of the conditions was permission to access classified data of the level of secrecy: secret, secret EU, secret NATO. The Inspectorate found that this condition was not met by a person named N. H. The Inspector has made it clear that, which is not recorded in the report, if this contract, when it was first hired, was still in force, it would be such a serious breach to propose the termination of the contract. However, since Sova did not even wait six months for this trial period to pass because they had apparently found that she had been employed illegally, on 3 September, one day before the end of this probationary period, she was transferred to a job where she met the conditions. Apparently, they found out things weren't what they were supposed to be. If anyone threatens national security, Mr. Prime Minister, with the employment of N.H. you threaten it. And it's not some statement on the portal, but all these statements have proved to be true. Ask Director Owl, he'll tell you the same thing as what national threats N.H. poses right now for employment in Owl. Once again, I insist on the question: Did you influence or communicate or when you last communicated with N.H., given that you received information that the mayor of the Municipality of Škofljica met with N.H. in March, when she was already employed in Owl, and hired a detective agency? That's what you read to him in the Fisherman's. That's why I'm interested: How did you find out, either from N.H. or from anyone on the Owl? How many employees from their private lives do you still get information about their work in Owl?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u8	Mr. Mahnic, you've obviously seen a lot of movies about James Bond and more. What the Inspectorate has found is clear that he has not found anything that would require the termination of the contract. That's clear. Secondly, the threat to national security is a prior disclosure of part of the classified information disclosed by the KNOVS in relation to arbitration. I think it's more dangerous. I don't know what you can tell me. You can mud me in your portals, just like you did in the spring with my famous fence around the house. You can tell me my relationship, you can tell me what I don't know, I'll live. We're gonna make it. We're gonna take all these attacks of yours. But by going to reveal parts of the secret report and thereby allowing the neighbouring country an additional opportunity to write in the media and use in the arbitration story, this is more sad. That's more sad. Whoever hired the detectives and what was in the pond, I didn't see you there. I don't know. I wonder how you found out. If you're asking me where I found out, then you're obviously well informed. But apparently everyone who wasn't there knows more than I do. But that's your custom, because we're already used to it by your client. Your party and Nova Slovenija have decided that you will now continue and continue to warm up. Since you have nothing to hold on to, you are now inviting some interrogations. Yeah, I'm gonna come to the KNOVS hearing, or I don't know what the point is if you're already here in the hall when we're all here. I can tell you the same thing I'm going to tell you right now. But out of respect for KNOVS itself, I will come to Parliamentism. Here is Mr Erjavec, who has been marked by KNOVS President for weekends a while ago, and we still do not have these weekends for someone to give him. In short, you make it up a little bit, you push it a little bit, and that's a story for you. Please, you're in the opposition, you've got plenty of time. Enjoy! See you at KNOVS! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u10	Prime Minister, I'd be happy to pay you if I didn't know you. Since we know you, we know what it is, or rather, what it is not your price. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the non-responsibility of the President of the Government, because he has not answered any of the questions raised by the Member States. He didn't answer if he had any influence. He didn't answer if he had anyone. It plays a role as a victim, but the vast majority in this hall of course know that this is not the case. No one will tell me that it is normal for a person in the hospital stock to hire a person during the hospital stock of Owl. No one will tell me that there is no need for a knowledge of at least one if not two foreign languages to be employed in the International Activity Department. No one's gonna sell me that everything that's written by the portals that are close to us is written by yours. Mr Prime Minister, given the testimony we had last week, you know about who testified or I believe that you know exactly who testified, all the references on these portals have been confirmed. And because I don't want to reveal what Mayor Jordan was saying right there, but just as you influenced him to hire her in the congregation of Škofljica, that's obviously what happened in this case. Apparently, you're not the only ones who know what was in that tent in Ribnica, because Mr Jordan said exactly what I said on the committee. But I want to know how you're going to present it that it wasn't true. No one in this country, not the Government or the Parliament, nor the KNOVS has the authority to decide who will be employed in the Owl. However, unlike the other services at Owl, one of the key features is that the Director of the Owl is directly responsible to the President of the Government. He is directly responsible to the President of the Government. We can't decide who works there. In case there is a suspicion that it was illegal employment, we are responsible for it. The Inspector has made it clear that we have examined among all four candidates whether the one that has reached the highest number of points has been chosen. But they can't verify how these points came to be. Given that it was clear in here that there was an adequate psychological and physical willingness to employ a candidate does not constitute a security risk for the Agency, these two things have now proved that these conditions were not met by the lady. It also did not meet the EU's secret condition, secret NATO. Once again, the inspector made it clear that they would have proposed the annulment of the contract if it had not been over-employed. This is said to have been an irregularity and, in view of everything that has been heard so far, both by the Director of the Owa and by the Inspectorate, as by the Mayor of Jordan, the President of the Government has influenced and ordered the employment of N. H. at Owl. And we need to hold a debate on this, President Židan.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr Member, for your procedural proposal. We will decide on Wednesday's vote. We are now on the second issue of opposition to the Prime Minister of the Government. Madam Ambassador Natasha Sukić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister! We are living in a time of climate crisis, a crisis that threatens survival on our planet. In Slovenia, extreme weather events have only caused more than half a billion euros of damage in both agriculture and the economy over the last five years, so that parts of the world that are sinking below the rising level of oceans or those that are being destroyed by long-term droughts are not even mentioned. Scientists have been alerting scientists for decades to the devastating consequences of unbridled greenhouse gas emissions, but they are not heard by politics. The capital of the environment and the future are of no interest. He's interested in profit. But the policy of capital in this crazy business after profit, and even more profit, stands steeply aside. Four years ago, a Paris climate agreement was finally adopted to prevent the worst effects of climate change. The European Union and it have committed ourselves to carbon neutrality by 2050. But the key measures to be implemented by 2030 will be the Prime Minister. If we do not radically reduce greenhouse emissions by 2030, the effects of feedback loops will become uncontrollable and the objectives of the Paris Agreement will never be achieved. We'll cross the rubicon. Slovenian policy has ignored the seriousness of climate change all these years, and you obviously continue with the practice of deaf ears. At the end of last year, you sent the European Commission a draft National Energy and Climate Plan, which was the worst of all members of the European Commission. In the middle of this year, you have announced that you will not submit the final proposal to NEPN until the deadline and that you have transferred its preparation to the external contractor. Moreover, the Ministry of Environment and Space has also outsourced the development of another extremely key document of Slovenia's Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050, a strategy which must also be written and sent to the European Commission by the end of this year. In 15 days, the Prime Minister, and just days ago, you finished collecting offers for the external contractor. Is this how we tackle the key strategic issues of the future? I'm asking you: When will you stop playing with the future of all of us? When will you stop protecting the interests of capital? When will you finally start dealing with the climate crisis and stop answering the key questions of our future with the Flossules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for asking. You correctly note that the climate is a topic that has been neglected for a long time, and this government has immediately actively addressed these issues. The government is well aware and actively addressing these issues, but climate change is in fact a challenge for all of us. The complexity of these challenges is also highlighted by the latest international event. The Madrid climate conference goes further. As we have found, they have not reached an agreement and it will be decided again next year. In short, the climate is a theme that will employ us for years to come and perhaps decades to come. We had a meeting on Thursday on the European Council where we were dealing with this. As we know, one member was in no way able to accept the commitments that we have accepted until 2050. It was a long debate and we sat until 1:00 in the morning to coordinate these conclusions. What do I mean by that? In our country, we like to hear how we are back and how we have done nothing. But it's not just us. I think that there is, above all, an even greater problem at international level. The bigger problem is that even the large members of this group, called the people of the earth, are also out of agreements and are not aware of it. As far as NEPN is concerned, we're not as successful as we'd like to be. All ministries, or at least two ministries, have a specific task of preparing such a NEPN to successfully withstand the evaluation in Brussels. I certainly agree with you that we are late in this area. Last year we sent a NEPN that we didn't prepare, so we sent it. This year, however, we are late because we are the only country around which we have environmental impact assessments. Other countries do not have as complex legislation as we do. And this is this instant core of the problem – an environmental impact assessment. Therefore, the Ministry of Environment and Space must also follow this procedure according to our legislation. And again, it turns out that our legislation has made us the most difficult for ourselves. Nevertheless, in preparation, the so-called NEPN, says the National Energy and Climate Plan, the Long-term Climate Strategy 2050 and the Energy Concept of Slovenia. So it's not true that there's nothing to be done about it. I am also actively participating in the debates on the European Council and wherever necessary. We must certainly be aware without any great philosophy that the TEC will have to be closed in the future and other sources of energy will be acquired. And each of us will have to do the most to reduce energy consumption. When I started the debate on nuclear energy a while ago, I was strongly attacked by some, but the fact is, I tell you this without NEPN and energy concepts, and I don't know what we're going to do if we don't go to the second block of nuclear power plant and shut down TES 6 or thermoelectric power plants, we're not going to achieve environmental goals, and this is a carbon neutral society by 2050, which we adopted on the last European Council. Here things are very complicated or very simple as you wish. If we are to achieve a low-carbon society or a carbon neutral society, these steps will have to be taken. But not with that, I repeat, they would not have nuclear power, they would not have water energy, they would not have wind, they would not have solar – they would have nothing, at least some environmentalists are so oriented, but they would have energy, they would have computers, they would have phones and everything. It doesn't work together. We'll have to make a decision. And I'll tell you that here without any great philosophies. The government is working on this and also [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u16	Yes, of course I do. Thank you very much. Look, Prime Minister, you're excused for going to the Madrid conference for extension. We're going for an extension. We should have a NEPN at the end of the year and a long-term climate strategy already in place and should have already sent it to the European Commission. And where are we? Nowhere. I feel like we're squandering our own human resources branch of those who could have prepared at the ministry of NEPN a long time ago. But no, we're playing, and that's outsourced to external contractors. Dear Prime Minister, you are late to prepare key documents. With the amendment of the energy law, you have provided covert subsidies to the fossil industry. You're working fast to expand the Ljubljana bypass. You did not even touch on the proposal for a green budget reform prepared by the previous government for four years. And you're still plunging into dozens, maybe even hundreds of millions of euros for environmentally harmful subsidies. Are these green policies? Is that a green twist? Is that awareness of the moment we're in? We have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030. And how many times do I have to do that again? Until 2030. It's not just energy. Other sectors are also a problem, particularly transport. And the parrot repetition of NEK2, NEK2 will not reduce these emissions. NEK2 cannot even be set up by 2030, Prime Minister-respected, even if it is in the strategy already agreed today. So I ask for specific answers: What measures, when will they be implemented, how long will these measures reduce greenhouse gas emissions and how long will Slovenia reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u18	Dear Mrs Sukič, I'm sorry that I don't have you in the government, because you have everything, but you didn't want to come to the government. Yes, lefty, Mr. Ducky, you say, is intelligent. Is that a sign of intelligence that you're not going to the government or what? I'm sorry that you haven't joined the government more actively and so on, and that you're just warning from the bench what's not done. This is not about the papaya repetition of NEK2; it is about the fact that this country will have to be energy independent in the future if we want to be a serious country if we do not want to be dependent on electricity imports. That's a fact. And that's not a repeat. As far as the drafting of legislation is concerned, the ministries are in progress. Maybe we'd stop by and see for ourselves what's going on and what's not. I think that's your warning pretty double-crossed in some way. On the one hand, you weren't ready to join the government, not even when we offered to put any of your people in any ministries, you didn't want them, maybe you didn't have them. Today, however, you are here from the bench very kindly reminding of some things. Just so we're clear, I'm not against it. You're right to warn, and you're right, there's been a lot of confusion, I'm sure. But we don't have to keep reading how we protect capital, how I don't know what we're doing. We are working to ensure that Slovenia is independent in the future. That's the point. As far as traffic is concerned, public transport will certainly need to be improved and given an alternative. Only then will we be able to ban the vehicles. Definitely. And that's all part of the whole thing called environmental issues. And you don't expect everything to change in one year if you haven't thought about it in 20 years. So in our essence we agree, but only your way is that it's pretty easy, for you pretty easy, it's easier to warn and then criticize. That's a fact, but it's still the mission of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Members, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you. Of course, I have a procedural proposal. Look, whatever we're turning around, you're obviously not aware of the seriousness of the climate crisis, Prime Minister. You can't tell me you're aware of it enough, or you're ignoring it on behalf of the interests of capital. And if that's both, it's bad. We need to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030. And that's you in the same sleep, while you're spreading the Ljubljana bypass, where you're increasing the frequency of traffic, which will only increase discharges, you're saying in the same breath that you're aware that you're working on it and so on. And that in the same breath, when you've given the Energy Act a novelty to the industry, when you're not investing anything in the modernisation and expansion of railways, you're telling us that. NEK2, Prime Minister, it's just a patch you say all the time. But NEK2 is not feasible by 2030, even if we agreed on it in the meantime. That's what I told you before. Your party voted in an emergency session against the closing time TES 6 to 2030. Then explain to me how you go about green politics. Climate change, of course, is not an abstract future, it is not a conspiracy theory, it is not a science fiction that we see in movies, but it is actually here, we feel on our own agriculture, in our own economy the consequences of these disasters that are happening to us. The longer you delay, the respected Prime Minister, the worse the consequences of climate change will be, the harder it will be to live on this planet and the more violent it will be at the end of the social change that will surely take place. Time is running out for everyone here in Slovenia and the entire planet. We can therefore have a general debate on this. I don't understand why we should avoid her. We have to do it so we can act as soon as possible. Because if we don't, we won't be discussing any more soon, because time will simply run out. Therefore, I propose that, at the next meeting, we finally speak thoroughly and frankly about all of this. We will be happy to help to shape the right policies if you just listen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your procedural proposal. We are voting on it on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. This brings us to the third question to the President of the Government, which Mrs Iva Dimic is asking. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u22	The Honourable President of the Government. In the last eight years, Slovenian health care has prioritized the rescue of eight ministers and four heads of government, including you. The number of people waiting above the limit has increased to 36,000. There are no treatments for cancer patients. They're taking chemotherapy in the hallways, and they're supposed to bring chairs with them. Public institutions deal with the shortage of health workers, doctors and their departure abroad. The country is looking for personnel in Serbia and the Philippines. The money for investments, renovations and updates is insufficient in the budget. The Ljubljana Mayor would sell the functional land at the Soč URI at the auction. The long - term supply law is needed, but it is not something that the light can see. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the distress of all patients. Slovenia is too rich a country to suffer and die in waiting lines that are unreasonablely long. I want to know: Do you support the proposal of a Christian democratic environment in order to ensure that patients and dying patients receive adequate and accessible medical care as soon as possible with any health care provider, either with public or with a private operator, at the expense of the ZZS, where your support and decision will obviously result in all the money for health care? It is incomprehensible that, for example, for orthopaedic surgery by patients abroad, ZZS reimburses the costs of posted treatment, while for the same service in Slovenia, the patient is self-paid in a private operator. Dear Prime Minister, is that understandable?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you so much for asking. I understand that in the introduction, you wanted to lay down as many catastrophic facts as possible and as much bad as possible to make it sound even more ominous, but it's not so black again. Don't let it be an excuse, it's a fact. I'm gonna take a quick walk through your list. That there are no treatments for cancer patients. Yeah, there was one case. The fault was solely the supplier who did not provide the Oncology Institute with timely notice or guidance. Therefore, contractual sanctions will also be followed. However, it is essential that the Oncological Institute of Intervention Imports has already received the medicine and, above all, that patients, I have assured me, have already received the medicine. Secondly, as far as patients are receiving chemotherapy in the hallway. Lack of space is a problem. The premises of the gastroenterology clinic are old and protected under monumental protection, but an investment is under way at another location to unload these premises. The deadline for completion is April 2020. He has no record of lack of health care staff. The number of doctors has increased by a tenth in the last three years. The number of healthcare workers is 9%. There was also a rise in wages. For last year's nurses, twice as many as 4 to 12%, and for some as already in 2017. About Socha's land. Let me say that I will not define myself until the actions of the Municipality of Ljubljana. But the Ministry of Health has done its job. On his initiative, the State's Attorney's Office has put forward a proposal for a finding that two parcels as belonging to the land belong to the Soča Institute's buildings. So also in this area work is being done, and I believe that the Ljubljana Municipality will also act reasonably and that Soča will get this land. This would be expected if the Municipality of Ljubljana is also for patients and for us to do something good for people. The Long-Terms Act will confirm the government in the first half of the year. With regard to the extension of waiting periods, I expect, but now indeed, the final regulation of the records. I aim for technical reasons, to properly report service providers, because these recurring findings, who has not been covered by the system, are indeed all slow enough and here is justified by anger. This also inspires the number of waiting ones, who are not really that many anymore, and the lists are limping. I hope this goes away. So much for your opening remarks. I've explained something. I understand the core of the questions, you're aiming for the waiting period. Let me first remind you of the adoption of Annex 3 to the general agreement for 2019. Its essence is to provide more services to patients and to ensure that operators pay for the extent of the programme implemented. In this way, the Government has provided an additional 10 million for the services it is waiting for as long as possible, such as orthopaedic surgery, angiography, scar operations, etc. The implementation of Annex 3 includes public health establishments and concessionaires, which are not private for once. I know your client's idea to include them in the reduction of waiting periods, but this cannot be done under the current Health Act right now. I am a proponent of the public health system, which must be accessible to all under the same conditions. Elitism should not be allowed or afforded in health. Health must not depend on social status. In the coalition agreement, we committed our partners to first exhausting all opportunities and capacities in public institutions in order to reduce waiting times, and only in the end, allowing for private participation. As you have seen, I have responded to most of your readings, and even as far as the privates are concerned, the doors are certainly still open, we have not said the last words, but we will do everything in our power to be in the interests of the patients.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President, for your answer. Madam Members, you have the opportunity to request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u26	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Patients should be given the right to treatment and not to waiting types. I'm sorry you didn't convince me with the answer because you didn't offer a solution. Your solutions do not produce results, but they do damage. Slovenia is not proud to ensure that the patient waits 13 years for surgery. This is not the pride of Slovenia and is not the pride of your government. In the last decade, a billion more funds have been raised in the health register, while waiting periods and access to health services are increasing. You stop supplementary health insurance, which only works because hospital insurance companies pay hospitals regularly within the time limit, while ZZS does so even with a three-month delay or delay. What is the point of abolishing supplementary insurance if we have to pay the same amount – from 35 euros to even 100 euros in net wages? Dear President! Explain what will be better and better for patients and access to health care from Thursday. You said that additional services have been paid, however, one of the Slovenian hospitals has not performed heart-stimulating surgery for three months. What does that mean? Is this a reduction in waiting types or an extension because they do not have an additional programme to provide this service? People have been waiting in one of Slovenia's hospitals for three months to arrive at an operation in the following year where they will be stopped by cardiac stimulants. Is that a problem for you?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u28	If I were rude, I'd say you had the opportunity to even have a health minister in this government, but you didn't decide to go to this government. Yes, if you repeat one thing, so can I. And as for the things I've laid down, you're saying I didn't stoop to a solution. I said that all the things you said about your question, I explained all those things about why it happened and where it came from. As far as waiting periods are concerned, I also explained that the records are still limping. These records must certainly be edited. Of course, you don't expect me to go into one myself, I don't know, the IT center, and I edit records there, or I move papers. We, as the government and the Minister of Health, have long since ordered this to be settled and matters also settled. But when we finally have such records that we really know how many people are waiting, something will change there. As far as waiting periods are concerned, these are not the same everywhere and efforts must be made to improve where necessary interventions are, where the patient cannot and must not wait. We have also concluded these previously mentioned annexes to improve the situation, and we have also financially encouraged the system. But it also depends on the people working in this system. You know, I have this experience with doctors myself. They're mostly good, but there's one I don't want to talk about here. Nor can it be regulated by legislation, it cannot be regulated by the State, but it is also something in collectives where problems arise, and there is something in the organisation of work and in the implementation of processes. And don't make it sound like an apology again, but that's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Madam Members, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. I see you'll take advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u30	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that the response of the President of the Government be discussed, as the Government is threatening the public health system in Slovenia with unreasonable decisions. Let me say that Christian Democrats are not interested in the American health system, but in the Western European working model in which they operate and where our doctors go. During the eight years of this period, I have witnessed the construction of various networks of certain political parties. If Desus has SIGD, we could read about the SD network in Petrol last week. I therefore wonder whether there is a new network under the influence of the LMSH for the privatisation of health care, and I propose that this response be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. It is impossible to answer if you have a procedural proposal. We'll vote on him on Wednesday. We are moving on to questions from the coalition to the President of the Government. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u32	Dear President, this question will be no less important than all the opposition issues, especially when we are talking in the light of the fragmentation in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that in recent times we have been surprised by the resurgence of the infection, especially with myeloma, and certainly with other very important infectious diseases. The last case in the Command speaks of the increasing restraint of parents toward the inoculation of their children. Of course, the issue is particularly important because the World Health Organization has identified this as one of the greatest threats to population health. In recent times, however, it has been bottling, especially if we find that in the last ten, fifteen years, this interception has fallen from 95% to 93%, which the World Health Organisation has reported may pose a threat to epidemics. If anything, then surely the national health safety of the Slovenian population is first and foremost, so surely the question is where this fear and the trembling of parents originates so that they do not vaccinate their children. It should be noted that, after the latest research they have carried out, there are only two persons who are representatives of capital, where, especially through social networks, Facebook, the so-called internet diagnosis is placed at the forefront of child safety, which means that we are asking ourselves: Will – and that is why the question be – will you, the President of the Government, and not the Minister of Health, because there is a particular dilemma in other countries, or will the whole government be behind it – or when will the amended vaccination law come, which will also answer very clearly questions about the responsibilities of the vaccination of children? In particular, the fact that even a new petition by the party for vaccination appeared in the previous week, the health of children who are actually fighting to actually ban or remove the ban and make the vaccination optional. This seems to me to be a case of some kind, and therefore the President of the Government is primarily asking you the question, you and your government, you stand for this: When will this marriage be on the agenda? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. You've already mentioned some facts on the very question, so I'm going to add some. Vaccination has saved more lives than any other health care measure so far, according to the World Health Organisation, vaccination prevents at least 2 million deaths per year and could prevent an additional million and a half if the vaccination rate were higher. Moreover, it is the most secure and effective preventive measure in the fight against communicable diseases, which, not least, is spreading more rapidly due to globalisation and the way of life. Even in Slovenia. In several cases of smallpox, last in Škofja Loka and Command, there are no cause for alarm, but the occurrence of this disease is by no means underestimated. On the contrary. While the World Health Organisation points out that the opposition to vaccination is one of the ten biggest threats to global health, two people at home observe that the proportion of vaccinated declines and is slightly below the recommended limit of 95% and, on the other hand, statistics, such as those with measles, were not present in Slovenia between 1999 and 2009, and only a few cases of measles were reported in 2014 when there were 52. This year, the occurrence of smallpox is again more sensitive. There were 30 by last Friday. The opponents of the vaccination will say yes, and? But that's a pretty straightforward answer, maybe even egotistical. However, I am not talking about cases where vaccination is suspended when there are medically sound reasons. Not far. Some people have reasons not to get vaccinated, and that's justifiable. I am thinking of rejecting vaccination for myths, prejudices, deceptions, ignorance, unverified information, unfounded rumors. I miss thinking about whether by not inoculating our child, we are endangering his life or endangering the life of someone else, the life of another child who must not be vaccinated. Is such conduct responsible? However, the government will be responsible. Don't be doubtful. Vaccination opponents will fail with proposals to become voluntary. No, it'll be mandatory. Even more, by April a new law on communicable diseases will be prepared which will bring about changes in long-term administrative and administrative procedures related to the suspension of vaccination for medical reasons. Why? Because the provisions of the current law are often, to say the least, the object of abuse. More than 95% of applications for suspension of vaccination have no medical reasons for suspension, but only for the personal reasons of those who oppose vaccination. And I've got a lot of writing to do, and I'm not going to do it anymore. I'm just going to say it with the case, like I said last week when I was visiting the soldiers. The ones who say the army must be abolished are the first to come and say, protect us, help us in the event of a crisis here. And it's right here. When the child of the one who has not given the vaccine is sick, he will be the first to raise his voice in kindergarten and demand the best for his child and so on. In short, it is up to our parents to be reasonable and not subject to some of the rumors and certain beliefs that we have eradicated in a democratic, educated society long ago. Based on some cases where vaccination was unsuccessful or may have caused side effects, it is certainly not possible to take the whole. I hope I've been exhausted enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. This concludes the first set of four questions, and I thank you, Prime Minister, for the answers given. Dear Members, we turn to the questions and answers of ministers and ministers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will answer the questions raised at the 12th and 13th meetings of the National Assembly. Minister of Culture Mag. Zoran Poznic will answer Mr Zvonk Černač's question about management and management of the immovable cultural heritage. Mr. Secretary, please. Minister, your minute is running, and you're quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you for asking. I waited for some peace to come. The Ministry of Culture shall provide budgetary resources for the restoration of cultural monuments in the framework of monumental protection project invitations based on Article 40 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The subject of the calls is the co-financing of construction and craft operations for the preservation of cultural protection components on cultural monuments and the co-financing of conservation and restoration activities on cultural monuments. The basic condition for the Ministry to co-finance individual objects of cultural heritage is that the single heritage is declared a cultural monument of local or national importance. The Ministry of Culture shall ensure that cultural heritage is preserved within its budgetary capabilities. The indicative value of all available funds for tenders is only around EUR 800,000 per year, which represents about one quarter of what is necessary, says the requested funds for monument protection project applicants. This money is distributed and these projects are selected on the basis of tender criteria and criteria, in view of the threat and importance of each monument. Monuments of State importance are given little more points than monuments of local importance, importance for the preservation of authentic materials, technologies, skills and the importance of a project to play a role in public events for the popularisation of the monument and connection with other development projects or programmes, and taking into account Articles 10 and 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park. The criteria are not defined according to the type of inheritance. This means that the announced cultural monuments that reach a larger number of points come into the selection. The Ministry of Culture is aware that funds for the renovation and maintenance of monuments are significantly understated. There is a very worrying trend in the reduction of integrated budget resources for the restoration of cultural monuments in recent years, say, from more than €7.8 million of integrated budget resources in 2009 to only 1.8 million in 2019. The Ministry of Culture wants to speed up the renovation of all cultural monuments and the improvement of cultural heritage, and has also prepared a proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. This is the so-called cultural euro, which will provide additional budgetary resources for the rehabilitation of all this property of national treasures and monuments. I would like to add a sentence that the Ministry of Culture has specific budget lines for state-owned and state-owned monuments, which are managed by the Ministry of Culture, with which we provide in particular essential maintenance works on these monuments. With regard to the issue of specific night lighting of the Predjam Castle, the Ministry of Culture has ordered the Ministry of Cultural Protection to examine the possible reasons for the night darkening of the Predjam Castle and to inform the Ministry of Culture of the guidelines for monumental protection management with the castle. On the basis of the report, the Ministry will further address this matter, including the conditions of night lighting, with the tenant of the monument of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I'm already afraid you missed the question, but in the end, you said something small. I asked you at the October session about why the castle of Predjama was not illuminated and when it would be relit. The answer to this question is not related to the memorial service. So, I showed at the October session, it looked Predjam Castle at night until a new lease agreement was signed by Mr Marjan Batagelj during the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2013. And this is what the Predjam Castle looks like at night from the time it is managed by Mr Marjan Batagel through the same company, which also manages the Postojna Cave. The answer, why the Predjam Castle is not lit up today, was given by Mr Batagelj Marjan himself and I believe that you can read it yourself in the media. When asked about it, he said that the electricity costs were too high. The Predjam Castle is not lit up today because almost 10 million profits from managing the Postojna Cave and the Predjam Castle would be slightly lower if part of these funds were to be devoted to lighting. This is the right answer to my question, which I regret from your mouth, Minister, I have not heard, just as I did not hear from your predecessor's mouth when I asked the same question that I sent a year ago. And in a year this issue has not been settled. At that time, your predecessor told me that the lease was such that it did not allow the castle manager to be obliged to bind him to the lighting of the castle. Now imagine that the Blaze Castle would not be illuminated, but that the Ljubljana Castle would not be illuminated, but that many castles in Slovenia, which represent an important part of our building and thus the cultural heritage, even the ruins are illuminated, would not be illuminated. That's why I'm asking you: When will the castle of Predjama be relit?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you. I was only aware of this problem when I asked your question of the month of October. Unfortunately, I couldn't answer at the time because of the higher power, but I'm really answering now. In fact, we are still conducting an inquiry into why this has occurred, and I can promise you that the next time such a question will no longer have to be asked. I deeply agree with you that such a situation as it is now is indeed unsustainable. Nevertheless, I must point to various other motives, various other facts, which in one way in this bureaucratic way, if I say so, prevent a set of immediate and decisive solutions to such problems. I've been warned, that's what I'm talking about very informally, a very large colony of bats in the castle itself, who are supposed to be disturbed by nightlights and so on and so forth. Here comes some interesting answers, at least for me. Once again, if this matter is quickly possible, we will be able to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u42	Yes, thank you very much. I have no reason not to believe the Minister, but experience from the past shows that sometimes good words remain for such or other reasons, and provide only promises and on paper. For this reason, I propose that the National Assembly, however, decide to hold this reply at the next meeting. If this debate is voted and, by then, by January, which is more than a month's time, this matter is settled, then this debate will be concluded very quickly. I pledge to finish it in one sentence if this is settled, and then I will thank the minister for having arranged it. However, as experience convinces me that many days of assurances in the National Assembly are not yet realized, I propose that this matter be discussed by the National Assembly or that we hold a debate on this question. There was something said here today that doesn't hold. These reasons, which were exposed to the fact that the illuminating problem is linked to the bat population and so on, do not hold. Look, for decades, the castle of Predjama has been illuminated. Bats were at the back of this castle of Predjama, and in that last part they lived at that time, lived today, and would also live over centuries and millenniums. In your predecessor's response a year ago, this question was not raised. It was invented by a post-festum. The correct answer is that which I have told you and which Mr Marjan Batagel also said after asking why the Predjama Castle is no longer lit, that because the costs of lighting are too high. So the Predjam Castle is not lit up today because it would be almost a 10 million-dollar profit generated from the natural rent of Postojna Cave, a few hundred euros less. This country must not allow, as most of this profit is generated from natural income, much of this profit is generated from an extra natural income and there is no reason that the Predjam castle, due to a few hundred or, if you want, several thousand euros at the annual level, would not be illuminated. Countries caring for their building and cultural heritage also show it to people. Each tenant is obliged to do so under contract. He is also responsible for popularizing and presenting this heritage to all who want to see it at night and day. It's what all countries do. If we drive across Europe, if we drive through Slovenia, we can see our building cultural heritage, which is beautifully illuminated and presented to people, and so it must also be in the case of the Predjama Castle. This has always been the case until 2013, and so it should be in 2019. That's why I expect this to work out. Nevertheless, I propose that, if it is not settled, we discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your motion on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. This brings us to the questions for the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertoncl. Mr Minister, first of all, you answer Mr Mark Bandelli's question regarding the replacement of the Petrol administration. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. Your question concerns corporate governance of companies, i.e. capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me first say the principled position. Corporate governance is in Slovenia, as far as legislation is concerned, including the Slovenian State Holding Act, guidelines for the management of state-owned companies, the rules of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, guidelines for corporate governance in line with international institutions such as the OECD, I would say, well regulated. See, the way in which supervisors are called through a public invitation, through an evaluation by a professional commission, through a narrower selection at the Ministry of Finance and, last but not least, through a very high-level criterion, this is that the supervisor is appointed by 46 votes in the National Assembly. So the same criteria as for the Prime Minister, the Governor and someone else. The Law on Slovenian State Holding, which was adopted by the National Assembly, aimed to distinguish the role of the State from, say, the management of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, we have this, I think, well arranged, compared to European countries in fact, very well regulated. Last but not least, there are results: the return on capital investment has doubled in these years since we have this law. [[Incomprehensible]] That's all I can comment on on my side. However, there are always some anomalies that we have already dealt with in the National Assembly, and I have already answered some questions in this regard. These anomalies need to be removed, and something needs to be learned from this. But it's not in my jurisdiction to comment on a particular case, an individual society. In that case, it concerns the public shareholder Petrol, which is an important investment in this part, which is a significant part of the investment of the Republic of Slovenia as SDH, in fact, much has been said in the past time by the Administration, by the Supervisory Council and, last but not least, by the Shareholders Assembly, which explained the background of these events. I stress all this information, the explanations given to the shareholders' assembly – in this case, I stress, but it is important that all shareholders are informed evenly – in fact, it is difficult for me to add anything to the role of finance minister myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a further reply. I see you'll take advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you, President. Minister, did you understand what I was going to ask – when and how is it justifiable for politics to go where state-owned enterprises are controlled and managed? When and is that right or is that wrong? I don't have this answer, although, as you know, I was the President of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board myself, and I was not influenced by anyone, as I had decided on certain things. But what happened at Petrol, at first we all wondered together why the entire administration had to leave with such a profit, with such beautiful results. Finally, it was found that the administration could not influence the supervisors if we were in corporate management. I think that the supervisors in this case are the only ones who can control, watch, control, because that's why they're also supervisors and they're set up by certain people. You know, in the government you wanted, there was one proposal by Alenka Bratušek that it would be right for the government to confirm candidates for state-owned companies in order to give the Government consent, in that sense. I think this is also the right thing to do, because I think it is right that the government controls the capital we have in Slovenia. This is perfectly legitimate in view. Here, here was my question: On the one hand, why do we not like it and, on the other hand, do we have an influence? So whether or not, here's the problem. As far as Petrol is concerned, I think it was right that they were driven away, according to their own words, because I think they wanted to influence control with their own affairs, which is totally unacceptable for us. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vojko Starović asked the next question for the Minister, and it is related to the payment of security to the media. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, since in some ways these two issues are linked in terms of the competence of the Ministry of Finance and, above all, of systemic measures in the area of state property. As mentioned above, the Slovenian State Holding is responsible for managing the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia and also those owned by the Slovenian State Holding Company in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act. It should be pointed out that in this part SDH executes corporate entitlements of the shareholder or the shareholder. As far as one level is concerned, what happens in an individual company, whether it is a Chinese company or a company, if in this particular case you ask what is the capital investment of the State, it is on the management of the individual business, whatever they are, that is the responsibility and responsibility of the management. However, it is the role of the supervisory boards, and all these companies have supervisory councils which, in terms of good corporate governance practices, supervise these companies. I, as Minister of Finance, have no view, and I do, in particular business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. I think there's a big problem in the whole room. Sometimes they say that the media are the seventh force, but now everyone says that the second force is for the military and for international finances or the international monetary system. In fact, the media have a huge impact on the opinion and views of people on what is happening in society, to be in Parliament, to be in individual organisations, to be in the municipalities, to be in a self-government community. They have a huge influence because through the media, people find out. The media is channeling individual news, whether they publish or not, whether it is such a publication, or whether it is a fake of news — which is now in fashion that has a remarkable influence. I think that this country, not just your financial ministry, which is still in the final stage of the supervisor, what is happening in societies, because it is also setting up a system and elections in order for the government to approach this problem, to actually demonstrate what was being understood that some journalists are being paid security so that they do not publish bad news. On the other hand, it also happens because there are private media to direct editorial policy and so on, distort events, perceptions of what is happening in our society. We should take one policy and one position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, do you want to answer or do we end at this point?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u52	I'd still ask for a brief explanation because you mentioned that I'm the Finance Minister's supervisor. The Ministry of Finance is not a supervisor. Each company has its own management and each company has its own supervisory board. And it is not within the competence of the Ministry of Finance to watch or check every single invoice in companies, regardless of ownership. Actually, that's why it's so hard for me to answer the question. I would point out, however, that companies in which the State has a majority share are regarded as users of public funds under the Court of Auditors Act. This framework is subject to the audit powers of the Court of Auditors, and if you have this information, I do not have it, as a Member of the National Assembly, Irrelevant information concerning individual state-owned companies may be addressed to the Court of Auditors as a proposal which will then be considered after their assessment in determining the audits. That would be the right procedure and step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have four questions for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Since Dr. Aleksandra Pivec is absent due to illness, I submit all four questions to the next meeting, which is the 15th regular meeting of the National Assembly, unless you give me a different notice and then you want a written answer, which is also later possible to let me know. This brings us to the questions for Minister Jerne Pikal. First of all, Mr Minister, you will answer Mr Željko Ciegler's question, which is about the call for co-financing of investments in schools and kindergartens. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members and Members, of course colleagues and colleagues from the government benches! As regards the implementation of the invitation to tender for the co-financing of municipalities with regard to the new construction and upgrading of basic and kindergarten capacities, this is the case, and here you are right that this country has not actually tendered them since 2011. That's why we have a big hole in this area. All I can say is I'm sorry there weren't any of these calls. It was just years of crisis. And if there was, it wasn't just here, and other investments concerning the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, it was. Unfortunately, in other investments, too much was being saved and we did not follow developments and needs in this regard. We are correcting this in the budget for 2020 and 2021. We are correcting the fact that for 2020, together with the amendment you voted in the National Assembly, and I thank you for this, for the co-financing of municipalities in the field of primary schools of EUR 10 million and for kindergartens of an additional million. So together to co-finance the municipalities with €11 million in 2020. In 2021 we remain with the previous ones, i.e. the basic figures, as proposed by the Government on the budget, we are talking about 4 million for primary schools in 2021 and, of course, 1 million for kindergartens in 2021. As far as the execution of the invitation to tender is concerned. We have begun to prepare for this at the Ministry, so that as soon as possible after the new year, we will also put in a call for congregations to which the congregations can apply with their ready projects. Our professional services are preparing these matters, especially because it is traditional for us to have only those projects that already have a building permit, precisely because of such great needs, to be taken into account, but we will see this in the invitation to tender when the invitation to tender will be published and in line with all the services that need to be. However, we expect that, as it is said, there will be an invitation to co-financing of municipalities in the field of primary education and pre-school education immediately at the beginning of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. I would like to draw attention to the figures found on the Education Committee, which is the need for a primary school, kindergarten space. By 2023 more than 14 000 251 new jobs are expected in primary schools. In primary schools, 750 new departments will have to be opened, even in kindergartens, the need for a space will increase strongly, as the number of square metres per child in Slovenian kindergartens, in the public network, needs to increase. The municipalities will be forced into very large investments, and this in particular means 75 million money, and in the budget for 2021 we have a total of 16 million planned. Look, these two things don't go together. They're not going together. An important sector, in particular the public network, an accessible public network of kindergartens and primary schools, should also be financially supported and ensured that it is provided spatially. We cannot leave this to the municipalities that we are assigning them new and new tasks, and we do not provide them with funds for this purpose, nor through the monetary co-financing of school and kindergarten facilities, nor through the increased average. Dear Minister, the fact is that schools are still being built in accordance with the 2007 guidelines, which have the basis of 1999, while at the same time the standards and standards that impose new and new needs on schools for spaces, new subjects, teaching in smaller groups, additional needs for individual work with students need to be provided. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, because this is such a big breakthrough that the State is making for these purposes: How does the Ministry of Education plan to address this problem, and how does it approach municipalities or primary schools and kindergartens in order to provide them with the necessary space?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Now to say that this is only a task of the state, however, it is clear from the very title when we are talking about co-financing that this is not the case. The State is co-financed because the original jurisdiction of the municipalities is primary education. This, of course, also means concern for infrastructure. It is and will co-finance, but we both agree, and there is no doubt that the original sin is in the past, almost a decade, where these needs have not been slowly built up. We also know about these demographic trends. Not since yesterday this demographic trend, at least we know about elementary schools for at least 6 years, how many children we have born and then we have 6 years before they enter primary school. But we need to be realistic – we do what we can within the budget. The original jurisdiction of the congregations is clear, with regard to the average, this government has done what can be done. We with investments, because these are not the only investments we are lagging behind, remember that we are also lagging behind investment in secondary education and higher education elsewhere. That's the situation. It's easy and right that we all talk about it together. It is also right that we remind the public of this. But each one of us has to do his part, and when I talk about each one of us, I talk about the congregations and, of course, about the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, a procedural proposal, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would just like to say that this is an important issue that I propose we hold at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The fact is that the municipality from which I come is only a demographic and an expanded subject and other norms and standards require more than 5 million investments in primary schools alone. The municipalities are practically right in the field of primary education and kindergartens in great need and the obligation to finance new premises. They don't have these resources. Today, there are 28 in primary schools in the first, second, third grade, even up to 30 children. There are many of them with special needs that need additional assistance. Simply schools and kindergartens are becoming inaccessible and will be even more inaccessible if the number of children will be reduced due to increased metrology per child, the number of square metres will have to be reduced, and there will be fewer places in public schools that will become inaccessible to parents and will be discriminated against here. Here the state, the National Assembly, must establish a serious relationship. In this sense, a serious relationship, because it is a matter of one marriage obligation, is the provision of school and kindergarten space, which we must provide and thus provide an accessible public network of kindergartens and primary schools in Slovenia. Not only are we for being advocates of the public network, but we also need to ensure conditions. I understand, I am counting on you to review data on current spatial capacity at schools in Slovenia in the public network, and to analyse the subject and other factors affecting the employment of this primary school space, so that additional resources will have to be provided at national level to provide these premises. Otherwise, I don't know how to solve this problem in a serious way. However, I think that, Mr Minister, we are both advocates of an accessible public network of kindergartens and primary schools. However, the fact is that the country's next step, this is to provide the necessary resources, must be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your motion on Wednesday as part of the vote. This brings us, honourable Members, to the 13th question of today. That's the answer, mag. To Andrei Reich in connection with the implementation of the subject of Description Geometry. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the content of individual professional subjects is concerned, of course it is right to draw political attention to them, but I think that any professional object or content of any profession would be very wrong if it were set up in the National Assembly, but of course also in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. I can't imagine politicians deciding whether to be trigonometry or whether to be descriptive geometry or whether that is it or not. Just as I don't imagine in Slovenian that then by voting, by majority vote or even by the ministry where we don't have it, I don't know, postmodernity, postmodernity comes in or doesn't come in, or Trubar comes in, to what extent and so on. It's just like some kind of general framework. I have to say in a way that I share your concern as far as this matter is concerned. Not only this subject, but in general the content that changes in vocational and vocational education programmes. But here, in my opinion and also in line with the example of other countries, we are so made that these content changes according to the needs of external stakeholders. To a large extent in vocational and vocational education and in the preparation of these programmes, this is the Centre for Vocational Education, not the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as most people usually think, but it is the Centre for Vocational Education, they are working with external stakeholders. This is not just an economy – it is an economy, of course, but there are many others. What we observe is that if certain content goes, very domestically, out of an object or subject, it is obvious that there was no longer a need for it in a wider society. And that's the only way I can imagine that these content is now less in these objects. The same question is, I've already been taught about it, like trigonometry and GPS. They explained to me that they sometimes had trigonometry because it was necessary to determine the surfaces, because fields had to be defined, because one whole type of thing had to be determined, and not only because of this, but also to determine the direction at sea. But as technology develops, we no longer need it this way. But it is a big question whether our students need to know this because of their abilities, and what was your question that because of their abilities it was right to know it. I, too, am not in favour of the fact that there is a professional and vocational education programme, and I am particularly stressing these programmes, just and only what a wider community wants. It's still some kind of general education. And in terms of descriptive geometry, the question of orientation in space is, not least, a play and so on. Thus, the only answer I can give you is that those who are involved in this process – and not to forget, in vocational and vocational education programmes is 20% of the so-called open curriculum that stakeholders in cooperation with the CPI provide – of course, so that obviously these content is not for a year, but for several consecutive years the stakeholders no longer felt important. I still think that if you ask me in person, but I am not the expert on this, they still seem important to me, but it is true that we are teaching them at one school at the moment, that is, in the high school of construction and Maribor. From this point of view, I would also like it to be maintained there. But I'm not the one, and it would be wrong for me to be the one to determine what the content of a particular educational program is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. First of all, you have the floor to Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko as the absent Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravko Počvalska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to you from my side. On the issue of border areas through questions sent, by citing meetings and also from my deliberations, I have, in fact, been pointing out from the beginning, since I have been in the National Assembly, this has been somewhere for about five years. For this reason, I believe that I have helped myself to see that, not least in the Government, the Ministry of Economy has found that the border areas are those that actually need special attention. You have set up a working group to prepare measures for border problems in the area, and in this area there are 84 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. We know that these are areas that are all essential under the average of the development of Slovenia, and these are actual areas where the demographic picture is also very poor. Now, if I somehow illustrate this in the Haloz area, which are also among the border problems of areas that I know very well. Haloses are an area with exceptional potential. It is a hilly area where there are mostly small farms that have working land on a very steep slope. Since people simply cannot survive farming there, younger generations have moved out of this area, and so we have actually witnessed a great population for the past few decades. Unfortunately, jobs outside agriculture are also extremely small in the immediate vicinity of Haloz. Haloses are not even fully covered by the Internet, which is, last but not least, the basis for the younger generations in this area to remain. If we look at the numbers. In 1961 there were more than 17,000 inhabitants, I am talking only about hill work, not plain work, in 2019 there were some over 11,000. In 1961 there were 4.3 people per household, today we have only 2.3 people. 39% are households where one person lives alone. I think these numbers are more than eloquent. I therefore ask the Minister of Economy: How far are you from preparing measures for border areas of concern, what are the measures, what is the timetable for the implementation of these measures, and where will you provide financial resources, since we know that the budget for 2020 and 2021 does not provide? Believe me, I will do everything I can to make sure that it is not just about measures and just about some of the activities of the working group, but that things are actually starting to change in this area. I request an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. The Minister will be informed that you expect him to answer the question orally at the 15th meeting on Monday. Dr. Franz Trček, you have a question for two ministers, for the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bertonclja, and for the Minister of Public Administration, Rudi Medveda. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice greeting to a handful in the hall of the present! My question is similar to the question of the predecessor. We have 40% of our communities under development, that's more than half the territory. On Friday, 13, we had an 11th extraordinary meeting on the initiative of the Left of the EU Affairs Committee, where we discussed cohesion. The Secretary of State himself with MGRT Mr Cantarutti said: "Yes, look, if we go to see some laws from the old country," and he listed them from the 1970s, "they are still at risk." And I could ask my question as follows: all our Halozas, all our white landscapes, all our not Ljubljanas, all our Maribors. We had some waves of privatisation, the last one captured by the nickname tycoon. Then we have some sale to foreign capital funds once by our companies created by the work of the last generation. Then we have stories, if I only mention the case of Maribor, 2013, the state recapitalises with 870 million, 2016 sell the Apollo fund for 250 million, and the EBRD taito Apollo pays 53 million dollars in compensation that same year, quote, “for the fraud of investors and the covert charging of commissions to its customers from the United States.” In the last two years, Apollo and EBRD have been pulling out of the NKBM for about 100 million euros in dividends, and they want to sell it for 650 million. Then we have an immediate reduction in the number of employees due to optimisation, we have a collapse of the information system, the exhaustion of banks, the closure of businesses in particular in these areas mentioned earlier by Suzanne, the merger of the Bank and the NKBM. We have some serious insights that the headquarters should move to Ljubljana. You could say the same about Gorenje. In Maribor they also whisper around the insurance company, which is now Sava after the new. And why am I referring to the two of you? For me, the Minister of Finance is also the Minister for the Political Economy of a company, but the Ministry of Public Administration also has its own part, which deals with local self-government and regional stories. We have something else we call our silver. One strategically defined, the other non-proprietary. In this light, I wonder: How are we going to deal with this problem and not act so foolishly anymore because we are actually in a situation, are you in Ljubljana or are you not? Maribor is already becoming, unfortunately, through such a political periphery. I thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, you decide who speaks first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u68	But I'll get started. The honourable Member, Dr. Trček, yes, in 2013 was this list of 15 privatisation companies. There were also initiatives against, and there were initiatives for Parliament. But it was all confirmed in the National Assembly. I have already said in the introduction, because this is actually the third question today concerning corporate governance, that the Ministry of Finance is indeed responsible for SDH, but in corporate governance we have also written very clearly in this context, as regards commitments, how we manage in accordance with international guidelines, and in particular in the State Holding Act, that we want to separate the policy from the management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia in this part. However, I find it difficult to comment primarily on any individual transaction, privatisation, in return. I don't think it would be right on the part of the Minister of Finance, but it would also be very unusual. But I can tell you my principled position. I only separate between good and bad owners. Whether it's domestic or foreign, it's important to me that it's good. Whether it is private or state ownership, it is important to me that it is well managed. But they are in principle, and that is what theory teaches us, and this is probably what we both, as university teachers, agree that privatisations or restructurings on the list are when individual companies are probably not well managed, in rare exceptions If they were very well managed, this purchase is very high. In this case, you listed different cases. Once again, from our point of view, given that it is important for us to be able to manage this as well as possible, this is being managed in the Slovenian state holding company. In this part, too, the role ends. According to the Slovenian State Holding Act, he was the manager and seller in this case exclusively the Slovenian State Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister Rudy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President! If I continue, you mentioned, the uneven development of Slovenia, the neglect of border areas. In fact, in a word, you have the problem of centralisation in Slovenia. I come from the environment, I come from the countryside, and I'm from the base against any centralisation. I also had bitter experience in my previous job, and we were also loud against centralisation in the sense that everything from decision-making to economic power is moving to Ljubljana. Where I have powers as Minister of Public Administration, this is mainly about the functioning of public administration as a service to citizens, in fact this policy of prevention of centralisation or, if you like, also of decentralisation. For example, we have a well-organised and fragmented system of administrative units as a service for citizens and citizens. In the past, there has been a rather strong process of abolishing local offices, i.e. preventing citizens and citizens from having access to services. We have stopped this process and are actually going in a different direction now. We're reopening local offices. We have quite a few planned to open in the coming year, and we have already started this year. I have also made it public several times that I am absolutely against the abolition or closure of other offices of state authorities in Slovenia, if I mention the financial administration or the geodetic administration and any other government that I might mention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have a chance to complete this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you. Since the beginning of my political career, I have been listening to this excuse for corporate governance. You know, since 2015 I've been lucky enough to have met with their State Secretary for State Property in Oslo. You know, that's no excuse for the state not having any interests. Of course, I'm against breaking up in a way that breaks down on Petrol or Telecom, but there's no excuse for corporate governance. But in fact we are moving into a state of centralisation that is also harmful for the Ljubljana urban region. As often as I say, Ljubljana is becoming increasingly self-absorbed. In this way, the most educated part of the workforce, on the other hand, also collects abroad. It is also necessary to think about regionalisation and the management of property owned by the community, if so expressed, in part or in full. We also have a major problem, as some of our experts have warned us, who have little look abroad, so that these sales are also made in such a way that there are no binding banners. In principle, there's a promise to make, but then in the final instance, blackmailing the state, if you don't give more money, we'll close it. It's probably gonna be some kind of fixed-up television factory in Velenj or not. There's always some conditioning of Revoz and I could still list it. Through this kind of politics, if you want, through such a political economy, we literally lose everyone. I'm not happy with the answers, far from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u73	Dear Government Representative, you have the opportunity to respond. Here you go. They don't want to. Mr Member, once again, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u74	Whether specific ministers want to answer or not, under Article 110 of the Constitution, any government must answer to a national assembly which is a legislative body. In fact, it is our domestic task to consider a different political economy and also a different attitude towards property in this society and the country in a way that will not violate Article 14 of the Constitution. If you go to read article 14 of the Constitution, if you translate it into human language, that means, as we say in the White Land, that no matter whose you are or where you are from, you should have the same options. My colleague Susana spoke earlier about Haloza, I could talk about White Krajina, Koroška, about Maribor, if we have a situation in Maribor, any mayor will be the mayor, that you are already at the start of fifteen million in minus, because you do not have the resources provided for some mandatory tasks, if we have a problem with two separate operational programmes that all other countries have other than Estonia have, then we have some serious problem with the social space development model that is such as it is missing. Places that were underdeveloped at the time of my birth, my childhood, 3. 1., I will be 51 years old, are still underdeveloped, are even more undeveloped. We're going through a centralisation that we don't need. We also have a forecast of moving a whole type of companies to Ljubljana, because the outside, respected by the Minister, is this myth of corporate governance our economy obviously politicized too in that bad way, even because of whether you are in Ljubljana or not. And then you rightly ask the question in Maribor whether I am a citizen of this country only for taxes to pay, let alone in my birthplace in the White Country. More than obviously, we need a serious, general, substantively focused debate on this subject, which I also request and hope, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it will be voted on and that we will have it at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u75	Dear Member, we are voting on your procedural proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the votes. We are now on the 16th question, Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik, Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabedra. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings, dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues! That is my question. Dear Mr. Minister, Maribor University Clinical Centre is one of the largest health institutions in the Republic of Slovenia and the most important health institution in the region of northeastern Slovenia. In addition to health care, educational and research activities are also very important in this institution. The name of the school hospital was awarded to UKC Maribor in the 1980s, and today it represents a learning base for all professions of health and non-health workers, undergraduate and undergraduate students. The UKC Maribor also has close cooperation with various health care facilities throughout Slovenia, and there are also the headquarters of very different societies, which aim to bring together patients in order to better understand their disease and learn how to act and live in new circumstances. The undeniable fact is, therefore, that the UKC Maribor is an extremely important institution. Unfortunately, however, long years of savings in the institution, including due to the management of the time, have begun to claim their tax both in the field of personnel and in the area of equipment and premises. Therefore, investments in the UKC, as well as in other Slovenian hospitals, are of course necessary. In doing so, it should be stressed that the funds for investment in health are unfortunately limited, as is the case everywhere. For 2020, only 19 million, as we know. There are numerous public reports that the Ministry of Health does not encourage investment in the most important health institution in Northeastern Slovenia. To avoid further circumstances in this regard, Mr. Secretary, I ask: How much funding has the Ministry allocated for investments in UKC Maribor this year and for what projects? Investments in which projects are planned by the Ministry and how much funding will you spend on these projects? What is the total investment value for the UKC Maribor projects that have already been implemented and whose implementation is yet to be achieved in the coming years? Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Minister, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Madam Member, as you have already stated in your question, in fact, investments in the Maribor University Clinical Centre have recently been misinformed about the level of investment. He will try to answer your questions very carefully or to the nearest cent. In 2019, the Ministry of UKC Maribor invested in the replacement of 16 anaesthetic apparatus for various sections of UKC Maribor totalling 686 thousand 585,50 euros; the supply of five bed units for intensive therapy in the cardiosurgery department with associated monitors, respirators and infusion pumps totalling 592 thousand 512,88 euros, in replacement of two mobile neuronavigation apparatus in the ORL section and the neurosurgery department, orthopaedics amounting to EUR 439 thousand,932 in the supply of mobile X-ray equipment for imaging purposes under UKC Maribor totalling 274 thousand 596,60 euros. The total value of completed projects already in 2019 is 1 million 993 thousand 626.98 euros. Currently, supplies of equipment totalling 6 million 344 thousand 955.56 euros are under way. There are procedures for the purchase of 2 devices for computer tomography, the purchase and installation of a new coronarographic apparatus with related equipment in new premises in the cardiology and angiology department, the purchase of a device for magnetic resonance 1.5 T in the radiology department, the replacement of angiographic x-ray equipment “by plans” in the radiological department. In addition to the procedures for the acquisition of equipment, procedures for the implementation of investment projects are under way. Construction and construction works for the installation of a fire-extinguishing fire-extinguishing fire-extinguishing fire-extinguishing device and the processing of fire-related sectors in the UKC Maribor tower, for which budget appropriations of EUR 4 million and EUR 800 000 are foreseen. The expansion of the intensive care and therapy unit at the Paediatric Clinic in UKC Maribor, for which the Ministry provides funds of EUR 968 thousand 13 and the relocation of the Department of Pulmonary Diseases to the location of UKC Maribor, Ljubljanska cesta 5, under which the Ministry will provide at least funds for the second phase of the investment of EUR 2 million 656 thousand 618.98. The total value of projects to be implemented in 2020 and 2021 is 14 million 769 thousand 587.54 euros. This amount does not include the third phase of the relocation of a lung of 2 million EUR 549 thousand 315.81. I would like to point out, however, that UKC Maribor has been very inactive in the past until the need for investment in the Ministry of Health has emerged. The planned plan for integrated budget allocations for investments in health care is €19.4 million for all health institutions in the Republic of Slovenia and €30.5 million for the year 2021. These funds must be sufficient for all the most critical needs of public health institutions owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, for UKC Maribor in 2020 and 2021 we will give around 35% of all available investment funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Ambassador, may I have your supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for this exact information and the amounts. Since there are very speculative amounts or information in the media, I would only ask you in this additional form if you could send this in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you. Minister, would you like to add something? No, no, no. Then we proceed with the questions of the Member States. Ms Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Minister, hello, and everyone else. In the media we have read and my colleague has already asked about the Central School for the Design and Resolution of the Location, where the school will be after these premises are allocated to the Municipality of Ljubljana. I also sent you a written question and asked you for a letter of intent, unfortunately I haven't received it yet, so I can't know anything about it, you'll probably explain it to me, but in any case I would ask you to provide me with this letter of intent. In your letter you agree on the exchange or arrangement of ownership of certain public plots or buildings or parcels of the Municipality of Ljubljana. We know there's probably something else in this package, but we'll see when we get the letter. And one of them is the Central Design School, which is supposed to move from Križank's premises to Roška cesta. The numbers or dates that speak of this are very optimistic to me, so I would like to ask you to explain something. Is it true that there will be a moving of the High School for Design and Photography, and when? While you have already stated several times that by August 2022, but, as I am told, this is a very optimistic prediction, given that we know how long it takes in this country only to get any consent and permission, and you do not even have a revised municipal detailed spatial plan, which will otherwise change Mr Janković in his urban world and probably will not be a problem, but before we do so, things must be quite prepared and then other things can be done. We know there's no new space there yet. What have you done at this time to make this happen? Is there no plan to join other high schools, such as the media, at the time of this move or transfer? What will happen if, according to these optimistic predictions of yours, 1. 9. 2022 will not build a new school or new facilities for this school? If you commit yourself to leaving the Križanka at the time, and this will not happen, we know that Mr Janković is not a nice thumb, but will move the matter out if it becomes his premises – what will happen in this case? I hope that we are not doing only services to Mr Jankovic again, rather than taking care of the welfare of the State, the ministries or, in this case, the students and teachers at the Central School of Design.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I, of course, thank you, Madam Members, for this question. This is the second time we've talked about this in this National Assembly, but I have to say thank you, anyway. What you said at the end is the most important thing to me. On the one hand, safety and the health of employees and students. Nothing can go beyond that, and nothing can go wrong with that. I can't imagine, in fact, being squeezed elsewhere than at heart, so that something goes wrong about the safety and health of the students in this particular facility. That this building, which is owned by the majority of the Municipality of Ljubljana, is not the best earthquake, we know. This is shown by the studies that we have also commissioned together in the previous term, not in my mandate, but in the previous mandate with the Municipality of Ljubljana. That's one. Two, what is extremely important, and at least as far as the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is concerned, is also one of the highest values, but of course the quality of modern learning in modern spaces. Modern learning can only take place in premises which are functionally designed for this purpose. You will remember earlier that fellow Member Cigler spoke about what new requirements are and what needs to be addressed about the premises. Here, however, we have a space that is monumentally protected, which of course does not allow any perspiration, resuscitation and so on, and of course it is primarily that the city municipality is the majority owner. Because of this, already, the Central School for Design and Photography operates in three locations. One is in Križanka, i.e. in Gososka 18, the other is in the Economic High School building in Roška 2, and the third is used in sports activities by sports gyms of the Tabor Sports Society, which we know is on Tabor 13. These dislocated units are not caused by anything but simply the need for space, because there is simply no place at Križank's location. The implementation at three locations, of course, entails additional costs, makes it difficult to organise and carry out educational activities, and ultimately to use the working time of employees. In addition, what I have told you from the very beginning is that the functional design of these spaces is no longer in line with modern learning. And there is something else, what our students and the school of design and photography are now using in Križanka, far exceeds the scope of ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. The city municipality allows us, of course, in accordance with the agreement that the Central School for Design and Photography uses more spaces than is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. If we move on — what are the plans? The plans are what you yourself said, so that in that complex along the Roška road, not only the Central School of Design and Photography, but also the Academy of Fine Arts, they arranged a gym, a modern gym as it comes along, also arranged outdoor uncovered sports areas, including parking places for employees, visitors and so on. I'm not gonna say you're wrong. But we did approach this ambition, as you said, but without the ambition of the OPPN, in the urban plan, in the urban design and so on, I think it is crucial that we work and that, of course, this project on the Roška road should be brought to life as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Well, Minister, I'd still like to see a letter of intent to know if you've committed anything in this letter. Because, as it's said, it's nice that we're ambitious, but if we're a little overly ambitious and give up such hands that are unreal, then it's not ambition anymore, but it's basically a trap around the neck, because you're just going to be something on the other end, so someone can tell you that way, I won't blackmail you, but then maybe they'll have plans for the rehabilitation of Križanka and then you'll have to throw the high school out. And she's gonna have to go because they're gonna have a building permit and they're just gonna have to start the parts. Ideal are, of course, new, beautiful, quality and large enough and functional spaces. Of course, the design school just wants it and everyone wants it. But I asked you what was already done, except for this letter of intent. How far are we with this? You know, just say, "we're going to do something new," you said a lot of things that are going to happen there, but in fact, we don't have anything like this on paper. What will happen if there is no school there on September 1, 2022, where will these students be and where will the school be? We have adopted some time ago both budgets for 2020 and 2021. I don't remember there being a lot of resources for this. What's more, we have to build high school, I think, five million or with the amendment was then added 5 or 6. Which probably isn't for a single school, much more when you said in one of the previous answers that you should give more for kindergartens, schools, and so on. We all agree, but then why didn't you propose it in the budget? If there's no money and it's not in the development agenda, it's not going to happen. Tell me: Where in the budget are these funds earmarked?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The letter's instrument of intent expresses exactly what it is, that is, intent. And it is not – and lawyers know – a legally binding document. That's one. Even in accordance with the Law on Real Property, of course, the letter of intent does nothing. What will be necessary for each of these properties is a special legal deal which will, of course, have to be approved first, and so is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Documentation will have to be prepared for all, which will comply with public finance rules and the management of real property of the country and local communities. This is about the letter of intent. Another time. As for what is already being done, preparations are being made for the urban competition. The RIPN will then start to change on this basis. Of course we can say it's slow. Of course, we can say that some procedures are going on in this country for a long time. But here's my commitment, too, that we don't throw anyone out until all the other things are ready. If anything, then only what I said in the beginning applies, and this is a quality exercise. Of course, the quality of the teaching is not to put the school out of Križank and then move it out and even what you mentioned, and for the first time I hear, I have to say that even the programs would be connected to another school. For the first time, I don't know where this idea came from, because it was definitely never part of any letter of intent. Therefore, matters relating to documentation, spatial and location documentation are taking place. Secondly, preparations are under way to prepare all things for the current Križankas, and therefore, of course, students and employees will have the best possible working conditions in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u90	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response. He told me some stories he doesn't know anything about. You know, if things don't work out transparently, then there's a quick birth of stories and stories. If we knew what was going on, how it was being prepared, if the school management had been informed and, say, involved in all these procedures, it probably wouldn't have happened. That's one. I still want to see this letter of intent, no matter what it's not that very binding. I don't know why it would be a secret, 'cause there's gonna be another story coming out of it. Put this on the table and we'll talk about it. Perhaps a better solution can be found together than you imagined. Anyway, I wish we had one time stamp ahead of us, no matter what. Each such project requires a timeline with predictable deadlines, so when will the OPPN change, when will consent be obtained, when will we be able to then get a building permit and so on, because then very quickly you can see when this clock starts to give up, what I told you at the beginning is that this is a very optimistic plan. You won't build this complex in two years, just like I'm standing here today if you're not sure what, Wizard, because it's just too short a time and a too optimistic plan. You have also mentioned that the rehabilitation of Križank does not allow for any perspiration, resuscitation and so on, because it is a monument, normal. Even though we have seen this with Mr Jankovic. He can also change things, even if they are monumentally protected and so on. Such that I think that the matter is too important for everyone else, all the other 18 locations that are regulated by this letter of intent, so that they do not take some more time to discuss it and get additional documents from the Ministry. A letter of intent that I hope to receive, according to a few times the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the December 18th vote. Mr Aleksander Reberšek is next. He will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, the Law on Public Servants in Chapter 2 sets out the principles of the system of public servants. Special emphasis is given to the principle of legality – a public servant performs all public tasks lawfully within the limits of the Constitution and the laws – and the expertise – a public servant performs public tasks professionally, conscientiously and in good time – and the responsibilities of a public official responsible for the results of public service tasks in a high-quality, fast and efficient manner. A public servant must act in terms of good governance by using public funds effectively. With regard to the operation of public servants, a code of conduct was also adopted, which in particular points out that a public servant is expected to perform his duties professionally, conscientiously, impartially and qualitatively, taking into account only the public interest and the specific circumstances of the case. He is responsible for avoiding any conflict of interest, whether it is true or possible. It must preserve and strengthen public confidence in honesty, impartiality and efficiency in the performance of public tasks. A public servant shall be disciplinaryly responsible for the infringements and his incapacity may be determined. It shall also be liable indemnity for the damage caused to the employer at work or in relation to work, intentionally or through gross negligence. Many civil servants are doing their work exceptionally, and this is why it is even worse because many cases of non-professional work by individual civil servants are reflected in the public record. In Slovenia, it seems that their personal responsibility is not well established by the Institute. Dear Minister, I ask you: How many procedures have been initiated in 2018 and 2019 due to the unprofessional, unscrupulous and unscrupulous work of public officials? In how many cases has the inability of public servants been identified in 2018 and 2019? How many cases of disciplinary responsibility have been triggered in 2018 and 2019 due to the failure to respect the conflict of interest of public servants? How many cases of disciplinary liability for damage caused by public servants to the employer at work or in relation to work allegedly caused by gross negligence were introduced in 2018, 2019? How many job failures have public servants been introduced in 2018 and 2019 due to violations? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As you say, Member, of course many responsibilities are imposed on public servants and also legally defined. For most civil servants, these responsibilities can be found to be exemplary and in line with expectations. Of course, on a legal basis, it is possible to sanction these obligations if they have been breached and in any way already violated. I'll give you some information collected from Friday afternoon to this day, as far as I can tell. There is no Excel's table to just press inside, and according to these criteria that you have listed, you can now refer this data to you. We have tried to see that it is not in fact true that in the public sector irresponsible work, infringement of discipline or obligation cannot be sanctioned in a way that also loses a job, even though it is believed that this is almost impossible in the public sector. With regard to the details of the specifically conducted liability proceedings against a public official at the Ministry of Public Administration, we have available information on the conduct of the cancellation of the contract of employment and disciplinary procedures in the public administration bodies, ministries, government services, bodies in the composition of ministries, administrative units which the Ministry may obtain from the central staff records of the public administration authorities and from the records of the conduct of complaints on the commission for complaints from working relations. According to data from the Central Staff Register of Public Administration Authorities, in 2017 and 2018, I will tell you why there are still insufficient data for 2019 at this time, the following number of completed procedures resulting from the termination of public servants' employment contracts in the public administration authorities: in 2017 the termination of the employment contract, i.e. the definitive termination of the employment contract, 26 cases, in 2018 32 cases. With regard to the management procedures for the termination of the contract of employment and disciplinary proceedings, the Ministry shall have at its disposal information on the number of proceedings against public servants dealt with by the Government Board for Complaints from the working relationship of public servants from the public administration authorities. In 2018, 8 complaints were addressed for disciplinary proceedings, once more serious, seven times easier infringements, 20 complaints for the extraordinary termination of the employment contract, 9 complaints for the regular termination of the employment contract. For 2019 the procedures leading to the termination of the contract are not completed. However, I can tell you that there are 11 complaints about disciplinary proceedings, 3 more difficult, 8 easier infringements, 16 complaints about an exceptional termination of the employment contract, more serious infringements, and 3 complaints about the regular termination of the employment contract, easier infringements and the reason is incompetence. For eight ministries, we were able to obtain this morning's data – for 2019 I am talking about how many procedures, due to the unprofessional, unsuspecting and unsuspecting work of public officials, were initiated in 2018 and 2019, i.e. for very specific reasons, for eight ministries, this is about half of the government or not covered by the other state authorities, such cases were 10. From what we've done. I'm going to be running out of time, but for all of the individual categories, as you've stated, there's not a record to be kept separately. From case to case, we need to review the files to find out how much there is in these individual cases. I have now shown you how many of these job contracts have been cancelled, the cancellation of public sector employment contracts [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you for saying that again. Dear Minister, I am aware, as you yourself said, that not all civil servants are equal, however. In this country, we have very good professional and responsible officials to whom we can all be proud. I personally estimate that most officials are like that. However, we must admit that we also have officials who exploit their inviolability and do bad things. Some officials obviously run this country, are above Parliament and also above the minister, they seem to be the only blue sky above them, the responsibility is neither the spirit nor the hearing. And what is the result of their unfavorable work, disastrous mistakes, sometimes even breaches of material regulations? In most cases, nothing. In cases of irregularity, the official shall lay his head, wait for the storm to pass, and in the worst case move him to another workplace with the same or even higher salary. If I mention only the case of Damir Topolk, the contested contract of the model for EUR 133 000, he was dismissed in September from the post of head of the Infrastructure Directorate and became deputy director of the Infrastructure Directorate after one week, his salary was reduced by three pay grade bees. Case two, the Food Safety Authority has not notified veterinary inspectors of unfair practices in butchery for three months and thus threatened consumer protection. Who's responsible for this? The health of citizens has been compromised, but there are no names or responsibilities. An example of three, a Ljubljana aquifer providing water to 300,000 people, MOL wants to build a sewer channel C0 through the Ljubljana aquifer. An internal audit report was commissioned which revealed Arsa and the Water Directorate's unfaithful and non-professional work. Together, we can interpret ourselves as political pressures of strong individuals from the Ljubljana Municipality who wanted to avoid legislative provisions that protect drinking water from pollution. Of course, the change in route to the apparently leading MOL wasn't after the year. Who's going to be in charge of this stunt? These are just the most resilient examples that clearly indicate unacceptable patterns and the absence of mechanisms for personal responsibility and specific consequences. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: What will you do about what you will do, perhaps change legislation, so that we will no longer deal with such cases or not repeat ourselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Of course, I can't comment on individual cases or judge them or even condemn them, it's not in my power, it's not in my jurisdiction. Each public servant shall have his own chairman, who shall be responsible for his work. And he is also responsible when a violation occurs, to bring things to an end and to carry out appropriate procedures. And this can be regulated already under the conditions of the current legislation. Nothing in particular needs to be sharpened. To sharpen the responsibility of the chairman, of course, yes, that is, because they are the ones responsible for matters. Now I don't know if in these cases they were illegal or not, but let's say the ones you mentioned were public. However, in order to establish the responsibility of public servants to terminate the employment contract, the data show that, of course, the witness is in a more serious position to terminate the employment contract. This information would probably be different if, in any case, the chairpersons, in any case where violations occur or any other reason, also reacted appropriately and did not, as it were, sweep things under the rug. These numbers would probably be different. What is also a problem in all of this is that procedures are largely poorly carried out. That is why we are faced with the fact that the leaders are afraid to propose such drastic measures because they are confident that they will, of course, be dismissed in the public sector, especially in the public administration, in one way or another, come a year or two ago and will have to pay back those 24 or 30 salaries. Also because, I am sure, not because of the mispractice of the courts, but because of extremely poorly executed procedures, which are also very clearly defined. As far as future action is concerned, I say that substantial legislation does not really need to be sharpened here, because these procedures should be guided by the current legislation, but with the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System and with a different way of awarding good, successful workers, we will also strengthen the responsibility of the Presidents, who will not only have the opportunity to reward good, successful public servants, but also, of course, to influence measures against those who do not achieve job expectations.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u100	Yeah, thanks for saying that one last time. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I demand that the debate be held on this subject, because we want to be in New Slovenia and because it is imperative that in our country we reach that public administration will be a good and useful service for all our citizens, not that there will be a public administration, I will say, a chair reserved for a dedicated political cadre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, and the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister! For quite some time, the municipalities have been pointing to the problems that occur in the recovery of natural disasters. Both municipalities and individuals have been waiting too long for financial assistance from the State, and the estimated damage is often not comparable to the cost of a comprehensive remedial action that can be up to three times the estimated cost. The fact is that Slovenia, like the rest of the world, is increasingly faced with weather and natural disasters. It is therefore all the more important that the State of municipalities and individuals be provided with assistance as effectively as possible and that the municipalities have mechanisms at their disposal so that they can effectively and quickly help themselves in the removal of damage. I believe that it would also be appropriate to give serious consideration to the relevant amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, which would allow municipalities a specific type of debt in cases of natural disaster recovery, which would be included under less stringent rules in the maximum amount of possible debt as provided for in Article 10b of that Act. For example, municipalities would be in charge of investment maintenance or investment in real property to remedy the consequences of natural disasters such as earthquakes, repairs, earth and snow reptiles, hailstones, stomachs and other disasters caused by natural forces and environmental disasters, which would allow for a comprehensive and long-term safe restoration of real property. This would also mean a preventive measure. In the event of natural disasters, individuals suffer a great deal of damage to their homes in addition to municipal property. Despite the fact that firefighters, civil protection, NGOs and other volunteers are always quick and selflessly coming to the rescue, unfortunately the victims affected by natural disasters must wait at least 9 months or more for the financial assistance of the State to remedy the consequences. This period is absolutely too long, especially when natural disasters affect individuals who are already in a difficult social situation and often do not have their property insured at all or are extremely modest. Since the Government is also preparing amendments to the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities and the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which, of course, I welcome, you, Minister-respected, I ask: When do you plan to prepare legislative changes in the direction of faster and more effective responses and assistance to natural disasters? Do you agree with the proposed amendments to the legislation to provide municipalities with an additional financial source in the form of a dedicated loan that would allow them to fully remedy damage after natural disasters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Bertonzel wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u104	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member. With regard to the issue of the financing of damage relief following natural disasters in the municipalities, I provide the following explanation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, of course, aware of the problems of financing to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, since many of the most affected municipalities are quite affected. From the point of view of the competence of the Ministry of Finance, I can explain that under the Public Finance Act, municipalities should have an adequate budget reserve designed to address the consequences of natural disasters. If this reserve is not sufficient, other appropriations, including borrowing, shall be used. In this respect, the Community’s debt is governed by the Law on the Financing of Communities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative association of municipalities through the working group to draft amendments to the legislation that will reduce the costs of municipalities is also preparing a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of municipalities, which provides for an increase in the maximum possible level of debt from the current 8 to 9% of the revenue realised in the year preceding the year of indebtedness, which we also agree with at the Ministry of Finance. This is therefore the second set of important measures to be envisaged at level 1 of the municipality's relief of €33 million next year, while at the same time increasing the maximum possible level of debt from the current 8% to 9% of the realised revenues in the year preceding the year of indebtedness. The proposed measure will provide municipalities with the possibility of additional responsibility for carrying out investments, i.e. a new source where we can also include the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters on the property of municipalities. We believe that the proposed solution is effective and that the municipalities will be able to benefit more quickly from the necessary resources to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, without creating a new exception in the Community funding system and maintaining transparency in the use of public funds. Let me put it this way. With the maximum possible indebtedness, the municipalities would thus increase the source of debt by increasing annual principal and interest payments by around EUR 20 million, thus increasing the level of principal and interest annually by around EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you for saying, thank you for asking. When natural disasters occur, of course, it is very important to act quickly and effectively, as we also have a river that quickly does, twice does. In this sense, we are already preparing legislative changes in our ministry. According to our timetable, we will send a change to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters into public debate early next year. What do we want to achieve? According to current legislation, it looks something like this. When there's a natural disaster, we wait first for an assessment of the damage. When this final assessment of the damage to the government is made clear, it is our turn to prepare a rehabilitation programme within 3 months. This, according to our experience, lasts about 6 to 10 months, from the accident itself to the adoption of the program, is 10 months, which is quite a long time. What we want to do now is that the state could give a deposit to the municipalities before we have a final assessment of the damage. So, on the basis of a partial program of rehabilitation, we would give this help to the congregations in advance, and then, according to the final assessment and the final program of rehabilitation, we will pay back some of it. In this way, we could achieve rapid action by the State to help the municipalities quickly. As I said, the timetable is a public debate at the beginning of the year, then inter-resort – it will probably not be quite easy there, but somewhere by the end of the year, I expect these solutions, which we expect besides others, to come to the National Assembly. The second solution, which is already in government this week, is the amendment of the Water Act. There, we change that the Water Directorate will have a water fund item for those interventions. When damage occurs on the water infrastructure, on the water and coastal territory, the area where damage occurs that the Directorate may intervene immediately during the event itself or immediately after the event. In this way we will prevent further damage and in this way the Directorate will also be able to, say, when a place is cut off from the world because the water takes the coastal road, that we can act quickly and that these inhabitants [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the answers that have really cheered me up. I very much welcome the proposed changes, especially the last on the Water Act, because of course I come from Piran and we have met several times in the past. I think that such an initiative is very appropriate in these cases. However, I would also like to point out that in February this year, the Council of State also addressed the open issues of the system of protection against natural disasters, namely the removal of their consequences, and adopted a number of proposals to improve the system. He's addressed these proposals to the government, so I believe the ministers are aware of them as well. Among other things, the National Council recalls the need to amend Article 11 of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, by which the State aid mechanism for affected municipalities would be launched as quickly as possible, proposing an advance. I want to know: Are you familiar with these suggestions? What is your position on the changes in question? Will the local communities be involved in the changes you have just described or will their views be heard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Minister Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u110	Yeah. I'll repeat, that's exactly what we're going to suggest, that on the basis of a partial assessment, the advance to the municipalities, if you want, and then you can see whether this advance was too high, in which case the municipality will return, if it was too low, it'll be paid. By always examining these proposals, of course, we will also prepare and propose an amendment in concrete terms. As with all laws concerning the congregations, of course, the congregations are involved in only a change of law, and even in this case it will be no different. I believe that in the coming year we will change this law so that it will be more operational and, above all, that the aid will arrive faster than under the current system.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Tomaž Lisec is next. He's going to ask the Minister of Infrastructure a question. Alenka Bratušek, who is absent, is therefore asking the Member to state whether he wants a written or oral reply at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. First, I should like to say that I expect the Minister of Infrastructure's oral reply at the next meeting. Why? I think we're talking about a very important issue. The Ministry of Infrastructure’s website states: “The energy concept in Slovenia is a basic development document in the field of energy, which, in accordance with the Energy Act, is based on the country’s economic, environmental and social development projections and on the basis of the international commitments adopted, sets the objectives of reliable, sustainable and competitive energy supply for the next twenty years and for the next forty years.” I have already asked the predecessors of Mrs Bratuškova in 2017 and 2018 when Slovenia will adopt the Energy Concept. The clock's moving. And I asked Minister Bratuškov in April this year what it would say in the energy concept and when this energy concept would be adopted. And her answer was: “I look forward to the adoption of the energy concept by the end of 2019.” Your Honor, we're 16 today. 12. 2019, the energy concept is not heard by the spirit. We do not know, except for the framework items, what is in it at all, but there are even more than general official footnotes, and we do not know when this energy concept will really be adopted. It is even more important that we soon adopt a serious energy concept based on what the President of the Government has said when he has publicly announced support for one energy concept in the last three months. But unlike the President of the Government and the Minister of Infrastructure, that they are strong in words, I expect them to be strong in action. Therefore, once again, I expect an oral assurance at the next meeting when the energy concept will be adopted. Above all, he was even more pleased to have an energy concept ahead of him in January 2020 and to decide on it. That would be the best oral response I'd expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. As you are told, you will receive an oral response at the next meeting. The next is Jani Ivanuša, who will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u114	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Ladies and gentlemen, all present at the Hall! Dear Minister of Public Administration, I have one or more questions for you. I have to tell you, I've had quite a few comments recently on the Local Self-Government Service. In my view, we should slowly replace the gentleman who runs the Local Self-Government Service, Mr Roman Lavtar, who is simply not in line with all the challenges facing this service. The Local Self-Government Service is expected to provide a system-wide organisation of the organisation and operation of Slovenian municipalities. If it is a systemic arrangement for you to establish 212 municipalities and adopt one law on local self-government, then we are already the first problem. Legislation on the organisation and functioning of the municipalities needs a thorough overhaul. According to my information, she's not in sight yet. Whoever wants to lead a system policy on municipalities should first have all the information and information available. And I'll tell you that I have very bad experience, whether the Local Self-Government Service doesn't have data or if they're very incomplete. From a systemic point of view, certain areas across municipalities are very important, such as kindergarten prices, the amount of tourist fees collected, compensation for the use of building land, the number of employees and, of course, the mass of salaries for public servants. Is there even a national authority with complete data in these areas? I don't think so. If I were the Minister of Public Administration, I would demand that the Local Self-Government Service have all the data gathered in one place. Given that we have 212 municipalities, we also have 212 public procurement problems. I doubt that I have 212 procurement experts in Slovenia, so the Ministry of Public Administration, I take the initiative, could form a commission of public procurement experts from various fields, and this commission could carry out public procurement orders for all municipalities. If we monitor large systems such as Dars, who still employs a bunch of lawyers, and still hire external legal advisers, it is not clear to me how a municipal official can perform public procurement. But if I'm a little cynical, he's probably getting help from the mayor. The Local Self-Government Service is also expected to draw up solutions in the field of local self-government. I want to know: When will legislative changes be proposed and when should these main solutions be considered? Given that we have 212 municipalities, we also have a lot of local regulations. Many decisions are illegal. The most exposed are the decrees on the categorisation of municipal public roads, as many municipal roads run on private land. The Constitutional Court has already issued a number of decisions and nothing changes. The municipal councils make a number of decisions that no one examines until something is wrong. Why doesn't the Local Authority review? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Member. Your time is up. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I see that the Head of the Local Self-Government Service to the Ministry of Public Administration is a very important figure if his work is being debated here. As regards the Local Self-Government Service, which is part of the Ministry of Public Administration, its powers or tasks are very precisely defined. There is no indication that throughout Slovenia it must collect data on the amount of the compensation for the use of building land or the prices of kindergartens and so on. When you talk about the necessity of amending legislation, you only talk about the necessity of amending legislation. What do you mean? I don't know what it is. And the effectiveness of a ministry or service is not measured by how many laws it proposes, how many it has changed or intends to change. At the moment, there are no essential systemic issues in the field of local self-government, as far as basic legislation is concerned, there are no essential systemic changes and there is no need for them. In the last five years, the Local Self-Government Service has reviewed the municipal regulations of all 212 municipalities. It has exercised control, which is otherwise not in the proper sense of the word, because we have neither the authority nor the ministry to repeal the rules. Of course, according to our professional and advisory role, we recommend or call on the congregations to make appropriate improvements where we have found inconsistencies with legislation. So the Ministry of Public Administration or the Ministry of Public Administration carries out these processes in all 212 municipalities. And that now, on average, municipal decisions are against the law, I don't know, I don't have that kind of information and I don't believe that's true. I myself worked at the municipal level, wrote decrees there for 8 to 10 years, and was very in touch with people working in the field of local self-government. And that now what is illegal may be some concrete example that you know of, of course, is also a clear path, who and how to eliminate such illegality. [[…]] This is to be done by the congregation council if he has observed such illegality that another congregation council has adopted before him or if this congregation council is not done away with, then, of course, this can end up in court, and these matters are to be settled further in court. As far as public procurement is concerned, I see no need at all, since we have already centralised everything in this country, so that we can now carry out public procurements for each sand wagon at national level. Public contracts at the local level run excellently throughout the municipalities. I hope it's a good one. And why would we throw them in the same basket as large orders running as infrastructure projects at state level running poorly to end up infecting these public orders at municipal levels that run well. There is no need for an expert in public procurement in each congregation. There are joint municipal administrations that work very well. I don't know if you know this practice, but in Slovenia we have extremely good cases of common municipal administrations which are just such matters that small municipalities themselves, due to lack of expertise and staff, because they have limited employment opportunities, are transferred to joint municipal administrations. Things are working out there as they should. And I'm not saying that everything is ideal on a local level, but somehow with a black picture like you're describing it, I just can't agree with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like to complete your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u118	Yes, thank you, Minister. In my opinion, it is crucial to ensure that the functioning of the municipalities is controlled. That's the whole point. The parishioners have much power and little less responsibility in their hands. Civil servants can also be forgiven by changing job systemisation. The work in the congregations takes place more locally, and the professional skills of the congregations are also weak, and I cannot say anywhere that there will be no offense. I see the problem for a small man in this, for example, that he comes into conflict with the congregation. It's the community that's supposed to be closest to people. And if people have a conflict with the congregation, I'm curious, I don't know where to turn, who to turn to. Those people they question when we talk about the decisions of the municipal administration? Whom should those who disagree with the mayor's decisions turn to? Also, if I touch on the subject of community funding. Before the adoption of the budget, we Members received a number of calls from the average raises. Is it the task of Members to assess the appropriateness of the average height or not? I think that's the job of the Local Self Administration Service. Have them sit down with the Ministry of Finance and find a compromise solution. As for the common municipal administration, I know it in my home Ormož, where the Municipality of Sveti Tomaž, Municipality of Centrum ob Drava and Municipality Ormož have a joint municipal administration, and they work fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u120	Well, you also know examples of good practice. Nice. In fact, employment, as you describe it, cannot be in the interest of any mayor or director of the municipal administration, since, after all, staff resources or employment opportunities at municipal levels are so limited that you are simply an incompetent person who comes after some connections to this work, you cannot afford it, because if one works poorly within the municipal administration, it is known in the work of the entire municipal administration. I am not saying anything, of course, 212 congregations we have that there is also such a case, but it would be very difficult to generalize it all over Slovenia. Whether Members have the right or desire to decide on the level of the average, I cannot judge that. Members are, of course, entitled to discuss and decide almost all matters in this country. If only the Department of Local Self-Government within the Ministry of Public Administration had this power to determine the height of the average, believe me, there would be no veto on ZIPRS. Believe me, of course, if you had that power and that opportunity. A bit of a joke, but, of course, it's also in the final stages of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. And that might be when you mention to whom the citizen should complain about the mayor's decision. First of all, the mayor. First to the mayor, he is the executive authority in the municipality, the municipal council, and then, of course, there are all the other mechanisms, from inspections to authorities at the state level. You know, even to the Ministry of Public Administration in the last year we have resolved quite a few such disputes when they came to the municipal level across the mayor or the decisions of the municipal council and some other interested groups. There are many ways to solve these issues. In the first place, the supervisory authority, the real supervisory authority over the mayor, in the same way the municipal council and beyond the municipal council, is very difficult to make any decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr Ivanus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u122	Yes, of course, because I believe there are examples of good practices far from being misunderstood. I believe we all work for the good of the people, being citizens and citizens, acting mayors, but you also have here and there that goes out. And I also believe that it would be possible, if the mayors were a little more supervised, that the results might be different from those of some decisions. Most of the time, it's not that simple. I am in favour of a broader debate in the National Assembly on the topic of the Local Self-Government Service under Article 246 and let us see. We have a lot to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Before we go on, we're just going to let you know that it's going to be a mag. Ksenija Klampfer, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, is present today only until 6 p.m. Now let's get on with it. The next question will be asked by the mag. Branislav Rajić, Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, the Health Act of Article 63 provides that the knowledge of the Slovenian language shall be demonstrated by a certificate of completion of a secondary school in the Republic of Slovenia or by a certificate of the relevant educational institution of successful examination of Slovenian knowledge. This evidence must also be provided upon application for a professional examination. The need for Slovenian knowledge was justified in the text itself by the fact that appropriate language knowledge is essential for effective communication between a patient and a healthcare professional. Of course, we all agree on this because it guarantees quality and smooth medical treatment of the patient. At the same time, I am asked about the purpose of the condition that candidates have to prove the knowledge of the Slovenian language also in the case of a professional examination required at the time of their employment. In fact, I was informed of the case of a large group of foreign students who studied physiotherapy in a foreign language in Slovenia, in Italian. Finally, they were allowed to do so by applicable higher education legislation. Now, under the Health Act, they have to provide proof of Slovenian knowledge before they take an expert examination with us, and this is the final act for the recognition of their profession in their country. Since they do not have these certificates, they cannot obtain professional qualifications and consequently cannot carry out the profession for which they have been trained, nor in their own country, which they are only interested in. They are only interested in returning and working in their country, in this case Italy, and their physiotherapy studies were organized from the beginning to the end in Italian. Since you are also aware of the problem, I would like to know: From the point of view of your department and authority, are you planning changes that would properly and fairly regulate the situation of all these graduates? I am talking, of course, about the changes in legislation in your area. As a solution, for example, the deletion of the indent on the submission of the certificate of language knowledge in the application for professional examination. If so, what is the timing of accepting this novel? It should be pointed out that the condition of proof of Slovenian knowledge through legal changes was established during the course of the education of these students. That means they haven't seen these obstacles before. European Union citizens have the right to education in our higher education institutions under the same conditions as we do and it is assumed that they have the same right to complete studies within a regular period, in accordance with the conditions in force at the time of their entry. In specific cases, the opposite happened; they changed during the study.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. With regard to the issue of Italian students of physiotherapy who are involved in studies at the private educational institution of Alma Mater Europaea, I would like to clarify that the Health Act in Article 63 provides, inter alia, that a healthcare professional or a healthcare professional who works in direct contact with a patient uses Slovenian language. The knowledge of the Slovenian language is demonstrated by evidence of a completed secondary school in the Slovenian language in the Republic of Slovenia or by confirmation of an authorised educational institution of a successful test of Slovenian language knowledge. A certificate of knowledge of the Slovenian language shall be submitted on application for a professional examination. I would also like to explain that foreign graduates at Alma Mater Europae have successfully completed or formally completed a valid accredited study of physiotherapy by obtaining appropriate diplomas. In order to obtain a full professional qualification in the Republic of Slovenia, they must carry out a professional examination after the traineeship. Not before the amendments to the Law in 2016, nor did it then apply to professional qualifications by completing the study programme; only education shall be obtained by completing the study programme. With representatives of the 300 Italian Initiative bringing together the graduates of the study, representatives of the Ministry of Health have already met at a joint meeting at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport 21. This year's 10th. Representatives of the Ministry were also present at the 19th regular meeting of the Committee of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport on 6. 12. In order to find a solution to the situation, the Ministry of Health also turned to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a legislative opinion and asked for an opinion on whether graduates could also perform an expert examination with the assistance of an interpreter under the applicable legal framework. It follows from the opinion obtained that the examination itself is not an administrative matter and is therefore not subject to the provisions of the law governing the administrative procedure which, otherwise, provides for the parties and other participants to the procedure which do not know the language in which the procedure is under way. In November this year, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport warned that the educational institution Alma Mater was to continue with the admissions of Italian students to the study programmes that it is carrying out as an accredited student. This alleged behaviour has been highlighted in particular from the point of view of the difficulties already identified in obtaining full professional qualifications for existing foreign graduates. However, we have received the reply that only 3 years of the programme will take place. Although the Ministry of Health considers that students in the Republic of Italy could initiate procedures for the recognition of education and continue the process of obtaining full professional qualifications in the Republic of Italy. This, however, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education to verify the comparability of programmes and the possibilities for recognition of education and professional qualifications in Italy. Let me tell you, however, that I am meeting with the representatives of Alma Mater on 13 January next year, where they will in fact present to us the issue and their aspect of possible solutions. I hope that we will find a solution in accordance with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Minister, for this answer, because this problem that I am exposing is basically not in higher education legislation, but in the Health Act. This complication around the use of the interpreter, yes or no, somewhat as an argument cannot be held. When it comes to courts, when it comes to far more important things for a person's life, it is used, but when it comes to one limited group, which now has to finish it, I think that it should be found a way to do it with the help of an interpreter. Finally, the nostration of diplomas from foreign languages into Slovenian is also carried out with the help of sworn interpreters. Therefore, I ask you to show an appropriate degree of understanding and to make this necessary effort, as the only one responsible, to enable this limited number of students to carry out this concluding act, which will enable them to carry out the profession for which they have actually trained us. This will benefit not only them, but will also strengthen the reputation of our educational system and the interest of foreign students in education for us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u130	In fact, I would just like to add that, as I said in the introductions to the answer, in accordance with our competences and abilities, we will try to find a solution or, together with other competent ministries, find solutions to the problem and, of course, seek a common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will ask Dr. Andre Bertonc's Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, in 2007 he entered into application of the Law on Public-Private Partnership. This law laid down in Article 8 certain conditions, or some definitions, which state that in order to promote public-private partnership, public procurement or when an institution has been awarded a contract, should also examine the possibility of an investment being made in the form of a public-private partnership. This is provided for in the first paragraph of Article 8. This so-called assessment of the public-private partnership potential is even necessary for projects over EUR 5.2 million. I think it's also used in these 12 years. What's on the other hand, the thing I'm interested in right now is: What are the effects of this legislation, this law or these provisions of the law, in particular in the sense that I have already announced to you in the forecast of the question, is this effective? What does this mean for public finances? Since this is a relatively small amount, 5 million, I assume that these assessments of the possibility of a public-private partnership are large, that in many contracts this happens and this probably costs. So the public institution has to order this assessment to someone, this comparison of different models, and if we are talking here from municipalities to state-owned enterprises, not least to the country itself, the ministries, then it is also in some way one part of the public money that goes towards that end. That's why I want to know what the buyout is. At this very first moment, I am particularly interested in: On average, what are the costs of the country to obtain an assessment of the eligibility and feasibility of the project and to compare variants or other projects? How many such estimates are on average, approximately ordered at the annual level? How many such assessments have been made since the application of the law or since 2007? How many public funds have been spent on such assessments since the entry into force to date?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr Vatovec, thank you for your question. I would like to clarify that the assessment of the eligibility of the project under the public-private partnership model is part of a so-called prior procedure aimed at determining, on the basis of an investment laboratory, whether the economic, legal, technical, environmental and other conditions for the implementation of the project and the conclusion of the public-private partnership relationship are met and to identify the basic elements of the public-private partnership to determine the content of the decisions and/or the public-private partnership act. The preliminary procedure is carried out by each public partner alone, i.e. the ministries or municipalities or other public partners, on my own – I stress in this part alone. The Ministry of Finance does not keep records of previous procedures carried out by individual public partners, as it does not even have a legal basis for such a record. Public partners are also not obliged to report on the pre-implementation procedures under the PPP model, only a copy of the public-private partnership contract is required and regular reports on the public-private partnerships concluded. In line with this reporting on public partners, the Ministry of Finance keeps only a record of the public-private partnerships concluded, as defined in Article 70 of the Law on Public-Private Partnerships. Thus, in 2019 the ministries and municipalities reported on two country-level projects and 50 projects at local level, which were concluded under the Public-Private Partnership Act and are currently under way. As I mentioned, the contracts concluded are kept on record. This, as you can see, is actually little, two projects at country level and 50 projects at local level. This, of course, does not mean that these projects were concluded in 2019, but that the contract is implemented in 2019. With regard to your question on the common costs of all assessments on the eligibility of the project under the PPP model, it is worth pointing out that the assessment in question must be prepared by all public partners before deciding whether to implement the PPP model. It should also be pointed out that the Ministry of Finance, as a horizontal ministry, does not have such a detailed view of the budgetary resources available to each public partner, especially since the municipalities implementing most of the PPP projects are autonomous. The Public Finance Act provides, however, that each budgetary user or its chairman shall be responsible for the purpose of using public funds, including the resources that the public partners may use to prepare the assessments you are asking for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your reply, Mr Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thanks again. Now I'm even more interested in things. You said the Ministry of Finance didn't keep records. What I was trying to stress in the first question and what I'm worried about is two things. The first is that the amount is relatively small, says 5 million 200 to make this assessment, the second is that it is essentially all dependent on the Ministry to the Ministry if we leave it on the side of the local community, which you say is autonomous. So here we have a potential – I don't believe that ministries do this in the house, but of course they let someone do such studies. Practices are usually like that, I know about the local community at all, that's how they are. This, of course, costs and from this point of view, is a matter of concern to me. By implementing this law, by applying this law, I am interested in how many public funds are actually involved in various such studies each year. The fact that two projects are at state level and 50 in local communities that are or will be in implementation is one thing. The question is how many studies have actually been conducted. There's probably also some amount of money that, I'll say, drains from public finances, and that's what's my key question. As a complement to the questions, I am interested in: Do you find the current arrangement whereby, in all cases, above or above the legal value, such an assessment is appropriate? Don't you think it's in some way an arrangement that's actually forcing the state and the public partners into privatisation? Consider, for example, the case of prison construction, where there were also speeches about prisons being built in terms of public-private partnership. I also want to know: Do you not think that this amount, as set out, amounts to EUR 5.2 million, is too low, given that other European countries have such provisions, but the amounts are significantly higher? We're talking about a tenfold of this limit value or more.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u138	In this part, I would agree with you that this amount is small. That would make you think about it. I must say that given that we are getting these questions at the end of the week, and given that they were actually just these two numbers, I have already ordered the services to prepare some additional information as much as they can, and of course we will gladly forward it to you. I am also interested in these numbers, and I would like to see them, especially because we talk a lot about this public-private partnership. I, too, was actually this small number, just number two at the state level, in a sense surprised, I did not follow this in any more detail. I would really wait for us to get that data, all that we can gather, and then we'll pass it on to you. But I agree, yes, that would suggest considering a larger amount. There's not much we can do with 5.2 million, and we agree on that. Once we get the data, we'll relay it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on. The next question will be asked by Mr Marko Bandelli, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Kseniya Klampfer and Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Minister! Under the applicable labour law, compensation for illness or injury to the employer shall be paid 30 working days for the individual absence from work, which is calculated on calendar days, for the individual undertaking for a considerable period of time. The latter, however, leads many entrepreneurs to a premature return to work, even though they are not yet fully healthy. I want to know: Do you think about solutions in the competent ministries that would eliminate or limit the problem of reducing the hospital stock faced by many entrepreneurs? So simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Who wants a word first? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you for the floor, and thank you very much for the question. From the point of view of regulating the right to a reasonable absence from work within the framework of the work relationship system, it should be noted in the introduction that the remuneration is a social security right from a working relationship and constitutes the continuity of payment in the event of a reasonable absence from work. Absence for health reasons is only one of the justified absences from work when the worker receives remuneration for this, which is governed by Article 137 of the Labour Relations Act. The Labour Relations Act does not touch on the eligibility of this refund or regulates the procedure in terms of the determination of the health status of the worker, but rather replaces the findings made by the personal physician or other type of medical structure in the absence of health reasons for more than 30 working days. All these procedures fall under health and health insurance rules. From the point of view of the working relationship, therefore, the conclusion in the field of medical capacity to perform the work is a legitimate basis for eligibility for compensation for inability to perform the work. The issue raised should therefore be addressed in a broader way, taking into account, in particular, the health-specific solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! First of all, I thank you for addressing this very important topic of hospital absence. In fact, I would like to say or point out that, as part of the preparation of future legislation by different stakeholders and stakeholders, the Ministry of Health has received several different proposals, including contradictory proposals, to address the problem of the absence of the hospital. For example, it was suggested that for all categories of insured persons the period of compensation for the time of the absence of the employer’s burden should be reduced, as well as some proposals for the introduction of so-called sick days, which is a few days in a calendar year when an individual would not be required by a selected personal physician but would stay at home. Various proposals were made by the proposers whether it would be for unpaid days or whether it would be days paid by the employer. Since these proposals relate to the period when the payment of compensation for the absence of part of the employer's burden must also be drawn to the Ministry responsible for the work in which the regulation is governed by the Labour Relations Act. The Health and Health Insurance Act regulates compensation for absence from work due to the disease paid by the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Health has also proposed, in the context of proposals for future regulation in the past period, a limitation of the compensation for the period of absence from work due to the disease over time and at length. In addition to Bulgaria, the Republic of Slovenia is the only Member State of the European Union that does not have a limited duration of payment of compensation for absence of work, and also does not have a certain cap on the amount of compensation for absence from work. In particular, the last proposal of the Ministry relating to the limitations on the duration and the level of compensation made it clear, given the very strong public response, that this is a very important and sensitive area, with regard to which it is crucial to deal strictly with and follow the rules governing social dialogue, as well as to try to reach a broad social consensus on the future regulation of this area. In view of the above, the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Labour, will also examine this proposal and address it together with the social partners in the social dialogue as part of the preparation of the future regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you, Minister, and thank you, Minister, for your answer. The public sector here is not a problem because the money goes from the same end. We are not saying to abolish the right; my question was in this way: why should the employer be burdened by 30 working days? A month and a half goes on the employer's back. That's the biggest problem. Do you understand? And that's the problem we have to deal with. In the public sector, this is not a problem because it is always from the same bag. That's not a problem. But with the employer, that's a big burden. It's a big burden. Many times they come back just before 30 working days — these are not calendar days, they are working days — and then they go on sick leave again. So this gives rise to three months' burden on the employer. That's to be understood. If you can think about it and begin to truly understand that this time is too long for the employer. Too long. So it's only after 30 working days that the country will be burdened. All of this if this matter could be reduced or reduced slightly. That was what I was wondering. Or think about some bonus. There are also people who do not go to hospital, even those who should, and this is provided for in certain countries. However, it is only envisaged in Slovenia that it is 30 working days, Italy has 20, for example, some have 15 working days, then it is a burden of the country. We need to take a look at this, too. If I finish this matter, I can say, if we already – and what I think is right – we are taking huge amounts of funds for social transfers in such a way and in a different way – and I think this is really necessary – let us also do something for the economy, where those who fill this cash register are. This was my idea – let's start thinking in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anybody want to respond? No, no, no. Then let's move on. The next is Mr Boris Doblekar, who will raise a question to Mr Aleš Šabedra, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister of Health, everyone else is present! I am going to raise the question of the issue of the matter which has been plagued by ghosts in Slovenia for quite some time since 2015, when the rules on emergency medical care were written and adopted, and where the first intermediaries are also provided for in Article 22 of this Regulation. Since then it has been quite a while, and things around the first intermediaries are different across Slovenia, according to the country. It is arranged in some places, it is not arranged in some places, it is in some congregations, it is in some regions, it is not in others. In short, there's no telling who's drinking, who's paying. Although this Regulation was adopted in 2015 and provides for the first intermediaries in Article 22. What or who these persons are as the first intermediaries is generally understood, at least by emergency medical care, to be firefighters, that is, firefighters of voluntary firefighting companies, which is somehow entirely logical – that they are people who are already somehow qualified, who have contact with people who have a covered area where the network is distributed and so on. However, the state has not taken care of everything that it should have taken care of in order to place these firefighters on the lists of the first intermediaries. I have some questions that I'm going to ask in the first part: What is the implementation of the Emergency Medical Service Regulation in the field of first intermediaries? How is the first intervention arranged across the country? What do you note from the annual emergency medical reports received about the first intermediaries, and how many of these? How much and how much does the State financially help to establish this network? Why is emergency medical care from the health care home for the first mediators most of the time turning to PGDs and volunteer firefighters? How is professional education, equipment, responsibility for possible complications in the first intervention provided? Could there be a misunderstanding by 112 or by the emergency medical services? What is intervention in the case of first intervention and what is intervention? Why is the financial burden for the serious establishment of the first intervention network imposed solely on local communities or municipalities with poor municipal budgets? Why doesn't the state come to the rescue here, too, as far as finance is concerned? Is it true that an interdepartmental group, or a commission, was established in 2015, i.e. the MORS Interdepartmental Group and the Ministry of Health? How many times have they met, who are the members, where they work, and where were they on the ground? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The first intermediaries are persons who intervene at the site of the event before the arrival of the emergency medical assistance team. In 2015, the Emergency Medical Services Regulation was incorporated as part of an organised emergency medical unit system at the local level, focusing on the implementation of the basic recovery procedures and the use of the AED automatic defibrillator. The case was implemented on the basis of initiatives and experience of excellent practices in some local environments, where data showed that the first intermediaries had achieved a significantly higher rate of survival after a sudden cardiac arrest. The current system, in accordance with the Regulations on the Service of Emergency Medical Care, is based primarily on members of voluntary firefighting companies and on the purely voluntary decision of individuals within society. At the local level, the systems are currently organised differently and the local emergency medical care service is basically required to identify the environment where the time available is the longest and, together with the municipality and the Department of Protection and Rescue, to regulate the relationship with the agreement defining the participation of members of these societies. In view of the development of various practices and the need for system-wide regulation of status, in particular members of voluntary firefighting companies, an interdepartmental commission between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health was established at the end of 2018. This Joint Commission or the Interdepartmental Commission has drawn up the basic starting points. If you don't mind, I'd like to introduce them to you. To regulate the status of the first intermediaries implementing the basic recovery procedures with the AED and are in the activation system via the 112 system and name them accordingly. In the system of protection and rescue, these specific groups within individual organisations or societies will be identified at the level of local communities and included on the list in the system of protection and rescue. In the area of the Republic of Slovenia, the so-called black foxes of the coverage of emergency medical units will be determined, where response times are too long for expected success in the treatment of cardiac arrest. This will give us a basis for placing the first intermediaries in the system and sharing where the interest and responsibility of the state is to establish the system and where the interest and responsibility of organising it at the level of the local community is. The system of first intermediaries will be divided into the following segments: eyewitnesses led by the dispatcher at the time of recovery, first intermediaries with basic knowledge of TPO with AED, first intermediaries with additional knowledge, these are current firefighters medics, first carriers of emergency medical assistance activated during the out-of-service period. The establishment of a health dispatch service simultaneously regulates a system that will ensure the accessibility and usefulness of automatic defibrillators in public places. The Interdepartmental Working Group was re-established in 2019 and has the task of drawing up a final document on the area of first intermediaries, which will serve to prepare appropriate legal bases with a view to regulating a unified approach to alarm, activation, intervention and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Doblekar, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! You took something off the rulebook itself, and then you added something, and I'm glad something started moving around the first intermediaries. I did not get certain answers to my questions on the subject alone, because you probably had an answer prepared earlier. I'm very curious: What is this Interdepartmental Commission, or what is it doing, and how many times has it met? I'd really like a little more information on that. I'm also very interested in: What will be the responsibility of those who are likely to sign a specific document to be the first intermediaries in the event of any complications? I also believe that it is right that the role of the first intermediaries is played by voluntary firefighters who already have a certain knowledge through voluntary firefighting companies. We also know that automatic defibrillators are already classified in the field, but they are all bought by people, societies, individuals, businesses themselves. I want to know: Is the State, or do you have any intention of helping voluntary firefighters in their own education, financially and organizationally? I am particularly interested in the financial part, since it is currently imposed by the rule only on the local community or the congregation, and we know that they are very disadvantaged with municipal budgets. Not long ago, we wanted members of the municipalities to add a few more funds, and unfortunately we failed to do so. Once again, will the state also step in to help financially? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, the set of questions you wanted to raise, you have, in fact, expanded today with certain specific information, such as: who are the members of the Commission, how many times have they met and where we are with the current status. I can tell you that we will give you a written answer to the questions raised. On the question whether the state has also foreseen funds for the purchase of the necessary apparatus, and – of course, in accordance with the financial capabilities we have, we will also help in this area in the next budgetary period, as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much. You have a motion of procedure, Mr Member, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you for the additional answers and explanations, Minister. Since the answers have not completely satisfied me, but not only me, but all citizens and citizens concerned with the issue of first intervention, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we also have a broader debate at the next meeting, or on this pressing issue. I'm really looking forward to some additional written answers. You'll probably take a very detailed look at the questions through the magnetogram, all the questions I've asked. However, I think that this area of first intervention, which many believe is merely emergency medical care, medical care – I do not say, is not bad, but it may also reflect that in health care it is very safe that the lack of personnel is increasing and, of course, it would then be a matter of emergency medical care, so recovery and so on, taken over by the citizens themselves voluntarily, of course free. I believe that there is no one who would not jump to help at the time of the need for assistance to a fellow human being, but when we go with something organizational on the part of the Government or the state, it seems good to me that we are not doing this in the same way, or not in every region or congregation in our own way, but that we are making some real plan of how this is going to take place across the country. I can tell you that I myself was present in Lithia in a health care facility where urgent medical care has worked hard, and I have made a great effort to engage or establish this network in the field of the municipalities of Lithuania and Šmartno, and I have also been able to listen to examples of good or bad practices in the region of Koroška, such as the lower regions. There I saw many open questions that occur mainly to voluntary firefighters who are already so much and so very burdensome and do very noble work, all of which must be covered only by the congregation with the municipal budget. That's why I said it would be very appropriate for the state to come to the rescue here, because it's not like I don't know how much money. If we wait for future budgetary periods, this – now we know that we have a budget adopted for two years. You know when this is about to happen, so I'm taking the initiative and I'm asking you to sit down with this committee and with all the stakeholders and find a common language with the local communities and with all those who are trying to get the country to help.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Horvat, Minister of Finance Andre Bertoncl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister of Finance, Dr Bertonzel, I say that not only corporations are competing today in the global competitive fight, but also countries. That is why you, as a minister, whom I highly appreciate and believe, and I say that the best way to understand economic policy is at global level, not only at home, but at the outset I am asking. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What measures are you planning in the near future and the medium term to improve the competitiveness of the Republic of Slovenia compared to other countries? Do you have in mind measures aimed at improving the level of economic freedom in our country? Surely we both want Slovenia to be an attractive country, attractive to investment, both domestic and foreign. And if I am in economic freedom, one of the Nobel laureates once wrote: “Economic freedom is the first condition for all other forms of freedom.” Now, if we look at it, on September 12th this year, the Institute of Economic and Strategic Research, Visio, published the annual report on Economic Freedom in the World. Slovenia received a rating of 7.15 out of ten possible points this year and thus ranked 67th among 162 countries and territories. Slovenia has stagnated according to this indicator, as it has been unable to make a greater breakthrough between the economically more free countries for years. In the assessment of Slovenia, the most important assessment will be the size of the country or parastata, where the 138th city of Slovenia shares with the state of Swaziland and Rwanda. Moreover, among the more worrying parameters is the assessment of the regulation, where our country takes only 80th place. The Institute also notes that the countries that are ranked among the 25% of the most economically free countries are in prosperity exceeding those that are classified among the 25% least economically free countries. I will be very grateful and thank you in advance for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, Mr Horvath, thank you very much for this question. I think both of us are close, and we've already exchanged a few words about this area. As Minister of Finance, in addition to these two indices, economic freedom and competitiveness, I am more interested in the rating. Let me say that Slovenia has made tremendous progress here lately. In fact, we're at the levels we had in those best golden times. Let me mention that at the first agency, at Standard & Poor's, we came back to AA with stable prospects. That's a lot of progress. We have been making progress at this level since the time of this government, and the promises are stable. This is very important. Other agencies, Fitch Ratings, have increased this to us on A, as well as a stable promise. Moody's: B, AA with positive prospects, which means that in the near future we can expect, at least that's our expectation, just as we raise this scale. I'll also tell you why I started this area. Of course, this is more or less, so to speak, in the exclusive domain of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, and the government is even wider. First of all, these credit ratings look at macroeconomic stability and public finances. In this area, I would like to say that we have taken a step forward, and if I were to say what is the key task, what is the key role of the Minister of Finance, I would say or highlight precisely these two areas: ensuring macroeconomic stability and medium-term, long-term sound public finances. I say that macroeconomic stability is the stability of all. In the absence of macroeconomic stability, a wave of other instability is triggered. First of all, it is very important that we have this macroeconomic stability in our country; and secondly, public finances. It is not even necessary to stress here that we have had a fairly strong debate for two, three months, if you recall the budgetary debate. I am pleased that we have finally managed so much power and, of course, adopted at the beginning of the year of the rebalancing 2019 and now the budget for 2020 and 2021, which shows two of the three key criteria and meets them. In addition to being in line with the domestic fiscal rule, which is expected to comply with the domestic fiscal rule, but this time it is true for the first time that it is in line with the domestic fiscal rule, budgets are expected to report surpluses, this black zero. And I agree here with the last opinion of the Governor of the German Central Bank, as well, it does not have to be a fetish, I agree, but it shows the right path. And now, with 2018, when we first showed our first significant surplus, we continue 2019, 2020 and 2021 as a percentage of 0.5 to 1% of gross domestic product. And secondly, to make amends is very important. In addition, we meet the criteria of black zero at the same time. But we need to do more on the structural balance of the budget, this is the task for the future. This part is as I said when we adopted the budget and the accompanying documents; from now on, it is smart. Now all we have to do is make this happen and continue with this policy of macroeconomic stability and sound public finances. I think I'm gonna be a little short a minute. However, if you allow me further economic freedom and competitiveness, then I would answer in the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Horvath, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I absolutely agree, macroeconomic stability and political stability are prerequisites that the economy can function normally to get enough oxygen. And I'm sure foreign investors are also the ones looking at these parameters. Yes, indeed, the Swiss Institute, a few days ago, I listened to the director of the Swiss Institute for Management Development at the Faculty of Economics. Every year, I monitor these scales, which this Institute notes about competitiveness. Among the 63 countries targeted by this institute, Slovenia has placed 37th place, which ranks us slightly below the average of the countries studied. It is clear that in a globally connected world, not only companies are competing with each other, but – I repeat – countries as well; and that is why we have this political dialogue. And because we are probably not satisfied with the fact that Slovenia ranks 67th among 162 in terms of economic freedom, that 37th among 63 countries is about competitiveness, that we are 20% below European average in terms of productivity; we certainly cannot be satisfied because we both believe, at least personally, that Slovenia can do more. Not to mention then how attractive Slovenia is to foreign direct investment. We have only 32% of foreign direct investment, measured in national GDP. We have Lithuania ahead of us, Austria ahead, Latvia ahead, Hungary ahead, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Estonia. Why can't we be in front of all these countries?Oh, my God! I want to know: What do we have to do, Minister, in this direction to fix this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u164	I agree. Today, not only companies, corporations, countries are not competing, they are trading trade blocks, and it is very large. The European Community with other major trade blocks. In this part, individual countries are still being measured, and in this part I have already indicated, within this rating, what is important and how this reflects. We are currently growing the fastest in these ratings, absolutely rising to the levels we have achieved in the best times, reflecting macroeconomic and fiscal policies. In this part, there has also been a broader assessment of the workload of these international agencies and countries as a measure specifically highlighted. In the field of others, you mentioned Visio, I agree; 7, 7, 15, damage to the fall, damage to 67th city from 162 countries. Another such Heritage Foundation, although we are in a higher position, in 58th place 160 countries. These methodologies are also slightly subjective. After one index measuring economic freedom, we have grown by six cities, this is the Heritage Foundation. But with Visio, we fell by six points. In addition to these macroeconomic indicators, which are mentioned, a number of others consider freedom of trade, protection of intellectual property, and more. We're somewhere in the middle of this part. I agree, but we could do more, and that is significantly more. At the level of competitiveness, if we also look at Doing Business, The World Competitiveness Yearbook, Global Competitiveness Report, we somehow don't freak out from this, we stay in the same places, around 35th, 37th and 40th places. We're kind of staying in this golden middle. When I'm at the IMF, when I'm at the World Bank, I actually have the most contact by function with these financial institutions, we're particularly reminded of two, three key points, especially those systemic measures. Such a systemic measure, which we managed to implement, was burdensome work. And since I'm talking about my area now, I hope we can continue. The three-year, four-year, five-year tax reform is supposed to be, and now the second year has ended. I hope that in the third year, this is the next year, we will continue with the decommissioning of work. There is also a combination; we all know what four other systemic measures will be in place to improve this competitive environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I have opened an extremely important and extremely wide area, so that a welcome debate in the National Assembly, where the Minister or Government could present its plans to strengthen our Slovenian competitiveness for greater economic freedom, which is, as it is said, the first condition for all other forms of freedom. And I take advantage, Madam Vice-President, of this business opportunity to propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a debate on this matter. We must all be aware that a strong economy also means good health, a good education system; that a strong economy also means more investment in research and development. These investments are needed first if we are to have a strong economy. As far as economic freedom is concerned and we are relatively few in Slovenia, but we are good in Slovenia, all this business environment should be directed to unlock all the potentials we have in Slovenia – entrepreneurial, intellectual and so on. Why don't people who have the will, who have the skills to do it, do it here in Slovenia and pay taxes here?Oh, my God! I worry that when many with knowledge get a degree in our universities, they get experience, then they see that somewhere else they have better opportunities, and they go there. We have to stop this. And all of this belongs to one economic and business environment where we could, as it were, release all the potentials that this Slovenia has. Slovenia can do much more, much more than has been shown today. Once again, I cannot accept that our productivity is at least 20% lower than the average of the European Union. And it's perfectly normal for us to have bad salaries. On the other hand, because they're still too busy. I welcomed the Minister's action when he went with the Income Act in order to at least relieve wages for a nuance, in this direction it is necessary to continue. And here you have our support, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We will also decide on your proposal on Wednesday as part of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u168	On my part, a very nice greeting to all those in the hall. I have this question for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. In view of the adoption of the proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, the harmonisation of pensions in December 2020 will be possible for the first time in history in nominal amount. Pensions will be extremely harmonised at 6.50 euros if the economic growth for 2019 exceeds 2.5% of gross domestic product; or at an even higher level of economic growth. I must say that we have put a great deal of effort into this in our parliamentary group and that in all coalition parties there has been a great resistance to this reduction of the dose percentage, but we have not given up and we have actually achieved that this amount is 2.5%. Despite a veto on the law voted by the State Council on the initiative of the Association of Retired Slovenian Associations, the law was reconfirmed when the Members re-voted. In spite of the opposition, the nominal harmonisation of pensions was also voted on by the members of Desus, who, during the legislative procedure, pointed out the non-systematicity and unfairness of the proposal for nominal harmonisation of pensions and tried to supplement the matter with the appropriate additions, otherwise only for the reason that the budget would be burdened by the non-admission of the law for about EUR 100 million of additional public sector labour costs. Of course, we can still fix the law, because by December of the following year, there is plenty of time. Our proposal, however, has been re- tabled by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. We look forward to re-decision, and we hope that other Members of the other parliamentary groups will join us and that we will correct the law accordingly. I'll tell you more about this when we discuss the law. Madam Minister, since you have not yet identified yourself publicly, I expect you to do so today when I ask you this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. Initially, as the competent minister, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for extraordinary coordination of pensions in 2020 do not support the nominal amount, as it considers that it is not appropriate and is contrary to the system law. The statutory provisions of the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act explicitly imply that the reconciliation of pensions is made in percentages. As a result of this, the coordination of pensions for the maintenance of the value of pensions and the relationship between them at the time of payment shall take place. This is therefore one of the basic ways of protecting and not merely increasing the level of entitlement to retirement. I would like to point out that the pension is paid in proportion to the remuneration or other income and the contributions paid in respect of the supplementary pension period, which is later also the basis for coordination. The fact is that all pensions in the country are coordinated in the same co-ordination percentage. As a result, the differences between the reconciliation amounts are only due to the different starting amounts of pensions at retirement. The harmonisation of the nominal amount is thus contrary to the purpose of coordination and wishes to increase the lower pensions in an exceptional way compared to higher pensions, which does not take account of the relations that were in place at the time of recognition of the right. In this way, solidarity is further strengthened for a specific group of recipients. At the Ministry, we believe that consideration should be given to all pension recipients and not just to compare the lowest pensions with the highest. In this context, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the proposed method of harmonisation will reduce not only the recipients of the highest pensions, as stressed by the proponents, but also the recipients of average pensions. For those individuals, the proposed way will mean a fall in the ratio between their pension and the pension of those with the lowest pensions, in which the solidarity elements have already been taken into account. This breaks the confidence in the pension system in pensioners and in all those currently paying or leaving the system. It also raises the issue of the emergence of a solidarity system, as it is expected that those who are least in need of it in terms of economic status will receive the highest increase, such as the beneficiaries of part of a dual pension. Nominal harmonisation will ensure that pensions are aligned to all users of the same amount, i.e. those receiving part of the pension, part of the pension and proportional part of the pension as well as disability benefits will also receive the same amount, in addition to the remuneration. In this respect, coordination at the same level is not fair, nor is it possible to achieve the intended objective of improving social security for only the most vulnerable groups of recipients. However, the fact remains that the law in the National Assembly was adopted in a different form than proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, I would like to point out that, should a proposal be tabled later, following the emergency harmonisation regime of the government proposal, it would also support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurša, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I am very pleased with your answer, but I would be significantly more pleased if we said that when we have also addressed this matter. I'm sorry that I didn't ask you to join us at that time, and you're going to make this public. As you know this area, you know that during the economic crisis, pensioners made a big contribution and their pensions were not coordinated in some way as a percentage, so 8.4% were not coordinated; and they should be coordinated with extraordinary coordination – at least this is how we propose – to harmonise and actually correct this matter. At the moment, also with the coordination that we have talked about a little while ago, we have come to 5.6% behind. If we move forward with this matter, we can expect that, in a few years, we can actually address this deficit. Well, I'm curious, Madam Secretary: Will you make the greatest effort to return to the pensioners what we have taken from them or what they have contributed to the country in difficult times?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u174	To begin with, the Ministry, at the time of adoption of this, added to the budget a clear warning on non-systematicity and also gave such a position, namely that the nominal amount is contrary to the current pension system, which, as we both have already established, is insurance. Of course, the principle of solidarity also applies, but that is second. I think it is crucial to emphasise in this regard that, above all, the generations entering the pension system believe that if they pay more, of course, when they are entitled to pensions, they will also receive higher pensions. This is one of the fundamental principles of our pension system. Of course, as Minister, I will continue to strive for regular and extraordinary coordination in the future, in line with the financial possibilities of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Ambassador Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Tanko. Dear Minister, nice to meet you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not repeat my efforts towards the digital transformation of Slovenia as one of the key development potentials, as the key development moments of Slovenia in the fourth industrial revolution. This time, Minister, I'm only going to read to you as a piece of information, I'm going to read a study of the World Economic Forum on the professions of the future. The study, which examined the potential impacts on the economies of America, Germany, France, China, Brazil and all other countries, showed that a total of 7.1 million jobs, mostly in office and administrative work, would be abolished in the coming years. On the other hand, the following professions will be sought: programmers, computers, chemists, pharmacists, doctors, dermatologists, beauty surgeons, nutrition counselors, dentists, health workers, home caregivers. They are currently and will be the most wanted programmers, computers, chemists in the years to come. The study itself also discusses that 2.1 million new jobs will be created on the other hand in the field of computer science and mathematics. Then they will be extremely important industries of nano- and biomedicine. Translators, financial and tax advisers, event organizers, mechanical engineers, lasers, waiters, cookers, tourist workers, builders, carpenters, roofers, plumbers, welders, tools, mechanics and truck drivers will also be sought. Higher education will be easier to get a job if engineers are engineering, construction, or electrical engineering. It is therefore poorly written primarily for the average intellectual profession, especially in administration, political science, sociology and so on. A separate study has shown that these changes should have a particularly negative impact on women, as they are less represented mainly in technical areas where the highest jobs will be projected in the future. Dear Minister of Education, Science and Technology, in particular education, my question is very simple: How do you imagine the Slovenian education system in line with the challenges of the 21st century? What changes are we expecting in the fact that also the Slovenian economy, Slovenian trade associations urgently need a large part of these professions, as also defined by the study of the World Economic Forum? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Some things, however, seem important to me, and whenever we have this debate, I mention them in a way. Undoubtedly, what you're talking about is a new industrial revolution that's actually already here. It is also clear that digitisation is an important part of this story. Education is a long-term system and the needs of the economy are always short-term. I understand both. The economy would like to have the personnel it needs today. However, education is difficult to complete because at least, what takes time, it is four years to take only high school, four years before someone enters and then becomes such a profile. However, if we are talking about higher education, as you mentioned, that those who will have completed colleges and so on will be easier to get a job, then of course this education will take longer. This is why we are implementing a whole series of measures, and I am going to count some of them now. What seems important to us at the elementary school itself is that we are doing so-called transversal projects that go through multiple subjects. It's not a separate object, but it's through multiple objects. And that's the question of entrepreneurship. This is not a question of entrepreneurship, but it is a question of entrepreneurship, i.e. innovation, of finding yourself in new situations, of being resourceful and all that is important and which distinguishes all those professions that you have listed. If something is typical of those professions you listed, then it is that they are very flexible; and this is something that is now supported by a lot of money in several projects. If I counted correctly, there are about 90 primary schools involved, just as many high schools to make a so-called base. The second part is the question when the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, in cooperation with the Strategic Development and Innovation Partnerships (SRIPs), is today preparing the basis or what should be the knowledge of the future. We're working with the Chamber of Commerce. The Economic Chamber prepares with higher education programmes what is within higher education programmes – and digitisation is certainly part of these higher education programmes – which employers, businesses, as well as the state administration want to have in the next twenty to thirty years. Again all those professions that you have cited, this is it, but the content of this education is of course important. This SRIP, this project that the Chamber of Commerce has, is exactly what it is. Together with higher education institutions, they shall determine the appropriateness of the needs and the content of these needs so that they can be translated into higher education programmes. Then, as far as the secondary level is concerned, there is the Centre for Vocational Education the one. As I explained earlier, at the Centre for Vocational Education or in all professional and professional programmes in the Republic of Slovenia, the environment is a key input, as is called the environment. We have 20% of the free curriculum, we have other content that changes according to the expectations of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce and so on; in short, both chambers or individual companies, if such needs arise. As an example, let me mention Kočevje, where a new programme of machinery was launched in the school year 2017/2018. What's with the machine? Since there is a Japanese company Yaskawa, a new investment, needed such a profile. Maybe just another brief observation about these so-called social professions. Even in the case of artificial intelligence, which is the most advanced part of this digitalisation, we are increasingly wondering about the ethical, social and social aspects of this artificial intelligence. And here, even in Unesco's view, the profiles that you have listed as those that do not come into question come into very much consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u180	Dear Minister, the Slovenian economy is cooling down because the Slovenian education system cannot offer this staff to the economy. I can tell you that I come from Styria, where a number of advanced people educate their young population in Austria, in Graz, at HTL schools throughout Austria, especially technical schools. Why does the Czech Republic, the Slovak overriding us? Since it already has almost 50% of engineers in its educational systems, not only engineers, but technical professions from secondary to higher education. Slovenia is lagging behind, Slovenia has an abnormal gap between humanities, sociology and technical professions. Slovenia has been completely ignoring Slovenian technical intelligence for decades. I studied and graduated from economics and electrical engineering. All careers of the future will be tied to technology. Of course it's coming together. In America, you have a whole range of sociologists who do doctorates, computer engineers who then study sociology for new applications and so on. They link knowledge between the so-called useful sociology and other social skills. I agree here, Minister, with you. But Slovenia is completely lagging behind in this public school system. I'm looking at private colleges. For example, the Faculty of Commercial and Business Sciences already has a program, part of education is about blockchain technology. I think both technical colleges are on a level, but, Mr. Secretary, the time will be when we can transform people, including those who have been educated by the Slovenian public education system. In it, taxpayers paid millions, and today people on the stock market are completely useless. That's the problem, and that's my criticism. I do not want young people who have studied, who have made great efforts to find that their knowledge is completely useless for the needs of the Slovenian economy and also at the global level. This will take a big step forward. That is why I am interested in your view of the future, your fundamental changes if they occur in the Slovenian educational system. It's been exactly the same for ten, twenty years. The system hasn't changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much again. I cannot agree with all the projects that are, both the international projects in which you are participating and in which we are cooperating with the countries you are referring to, that is, the Czech Republic and so on. Because these are not small projects, these are projects involving more than ten to not say 100 high schools. They're just international projects. Secondly, national projects where all of the things you're talking about are actually being introduced. I said 90 high schools, over 100 primary schools and so on. Of course it's easy to say, but when we look from the point of view of the ministry, when we look from the point of view of the numbers, when we look at the number of people involved, the programs, the students, the students and so on, it's said that nothing has changed. If we move on. More than half, it's just a family, and I've already said that in this House, more people in high school go to high school than in high school, much more. And not just this year, but years before that. That, too. But I agree with you where you say that the content of these programs may not be flexible enough. But I can agree with you there, and it would be a good idea for these programmes to adapt more quickly to their needs. That is why I described to you earlier that project within the framework of the SRIP which the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia has and where it brings together precisely these higher education programmes and the economy in order to respond as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible to these needs. On the other hand, the CPI on the secondary level has this story. As far as technical colleges are concerned, and so on. They are autonomous, they are autonomous in their work; it is right to warn them, it is right sometimes that we say from here that things do not go, creak and so on, so that they change faster. However, in terms of social and humanistic professions, I have said earlier, given my view and also the view I have from international waters, but it is not only that some sociologists are involved in some applications that computer programmers are programming, but it is a major ethical issue, a relationship between, if you want, a machine or a computer and a human being, a question of a computer learner and then the right standards that we set to this computer and so on. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Time's up. Mr. Breznik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u184	Yes, of course, I will ask for a procedural proposal to hold a broader debate on this. For what, respectable colleagues and colleagues? The former Minister of Finance, Marble, explained a few days ago at the Faculty of Economics that pensioners — if they listen to us now — can forget about serious pensions in a few years. The added value of the Slovenian economy will not rise, productivity and efficiency of the public and state administration will not rise, digitisation runs only on paper. Dear colleagues, most of the graduates of the Slovenian educational system, represented by the Minister, can be found at the educational institution. The Austrians took most of the technical personnel that the economy does not have at this time. Most sociologists, humanists – you will see this from statistics – are at the employment agency. Why are we throwing away this money if we have an extremely static system? Next thing. Where are the new technologies, nanotechnologies, artificial intelligence, big data analysis, internet stuff, where are the technologies about bionics, mechatronics and so on? Dear colleagues, here are new technologies, here is a high added value. And only high-tech industry on the one hand and green tourism on the other. Ecological farms are a large part of Slovenia's 21st century breakthrough. And if this education system hasn't reformed seriously in the last 30 years, I'm predicting a serious problem. You have already seen how many foreigners we employ in Slovenia. Each foreigner comes from a whole range of social families, which could literally place a heavy burden on the social part of the country. But the Slovenians still have 60, 70,000 people on the stock market, not to explain, a large number with PhDs, Master's degree and so on. Here's the problem. I know you can't guarantee optimally. The minister is right here. But we don't even have an apprenticeship, a dual school system at the lowest level. I could only say a few numbers — 50, 60 recorded places. The dual school system in Germany runs in the system of mechatronics, in the system of new robot repairers, in the system of artificial intelligence, in the systems of nanotechnology, in the system of mechanics, bionics and so on. At this level, apprenticeships are under way in Germany. For example, BMW has 35 professions that it educates for its own needs. So why don't we use a Bavarian model, or an Austrian model, or a combination of that, if that works? We would have 30,000 young people who would start paying contributions every year at the age of 16. These people would quickly become familiar with the new profession and, through the process of lifelong learning, these young people could get to the doctorate. Nothing is restricted to them. Why do we train so many people by the age of 30? Finally, they find that they have an education that no man in this world needs. This is a problem of the Slovenian educational system and this is the key to the debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a nice greeting to all present, especially all three ministers and ministers! Last year in the National Assembly at this time, in these December days, we discussed and adopted a so-called intervention law due to the accumulation of municipal packaging and wasteful tombstones. This law will expire in 15 days. At that time, we were faced with data that more than 10,000 tonnes of waste packaging had accumulated in Slovenia and more than 2,000 tonnes of these candles. This, of course, raises the question of where we are today with regard to these quantities. We have been monitoring something during the year that has been successfully removed by burning and that harmful emissions, especially in Lenart in April days twice within one week, have been carried into the wider environment. However, the law provided that these accumulated waste packagings and candles should be disposed of, processed, disposed of and provided for by the State from the budget. What's the situation today? How many of these were taken away, destroyed, removed in a year? How much did the State pay for this, or how much did it cost the taxpayers in the final stage? Since the funds for this intervention measure were provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, not through those which cause these wastes. At that time, the predecessor of the current minister, when we adopted this intervention law, said that three steps would follow in this area. The first was already adopted before this intervention law, a regulation which this intervention law in some way took. That was the second step. And the third step he mentioned was the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act. And in this regard, it was said that this represents an important priority of the Ministry of the Environment and that this new law was to enter into force in 16 days, is to say with 1. 1. 2020. As we can see, that's not gonna happen. This marriage was in debate in June, and then there was nothing for a while. Then we listened to the media announcements in October that the law would see the legislative procedure. He's not here today. I want to know: What's with the law now? In the meantime, of course, the prices of waste exports are rising, and household and business costs are increasing. In the absence of systemic solutions and appropriate regulations, the municipalities place these higher costs on people and on businesses, on individuals. In most cases these amounts are not so negligible, these increases are at the annual level of two additional rates. We need these systemic solutions. And I want to know: What are the systemic solutions in the new Environmental Protection Act that will also have positive effects on consumers? When can we expect this marriage? How is it today with the waste packaging and everything else regulated by the intervention law?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u188	Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking. The law on environmental protection really should be over by now. There have been several comments and proposals in the public debate, so we will have to now, I hope, send it back to a shorter public debate this week, because there have been some major changes; to satisfy the public condition of the adoption of new legislation. I am counting on our time goal that this law in the National Assembly will also be confirmed at spring sessions. In addition to the transposition of regulations relating to CO2 emissions, according to the so-called ETS system, the main change is in the area of waste management, the so-called waste part. In this part, we will change that we are changing this current system of dissemination of responsibility to the point that manufacturers will no longer be responsible for their products when they become waste, that is, for these 8 streams, only financially, but will be responsible for the new organisational ones. In doing so, we want to ensure that we no longer have to do that when the manufacturer pays the provider on the market to take care of the packaging, the electronic equipment or the candles, in any way, in order to get rid of its responsibilities; but we also want him to be organisationally responsible for ensuring that the packaging, when they become waste, is indeed taken care of. So that we do not get to the situation as we did this year, when the country had to intervene and now the state will pay for this waste packaging. Otherwise, we will take it back through court proceedings, but we know that this is taking time and it is a question of how successful we will be. That's the main change. However, we determine everything, i.e. the criteria for when the status of the waste ceases, under what conditions. The amendment of the Waste Regulation as well as the amendment of the Packaging Regulation will be followed. There we remove this threshold of 15 tons, which is now in force, and which was also partly responsible for the fact that we were in the present situation when the packaging did not want to drive away. The intervention law failed to call for candles. We will have to settle this in the coming year, in my opinion, by amending the regulation, if we do not now negotiate successfully by the end of the year. The rest was taken away or are now running for 2,000 tons of procedures plus candles and the rest was successfully carried out. In the meantime, the inspection also examined certain companies for the management of packaging waste. We have found that there have been some irregularities, that for everything these companies have collected, they later failed to meet these obligations. As a result, some criminal charges have also been brought against the prosecution or the police. We are also counting on some kind of order to be established in this part. Prices of waste management are, of course, rising because Slovenia as such for the whole life cycle of the product and then waste is not self-sufficient, it is not self-sustaining, which means that we are heavily dependent on abroad. The borders are closing, China started with this first, and as a result the market in Europe is also saturated, Hungary has the last closure, which means that those countries that will accept our waste will, of course, raise the price accordingly. And that price results in the scoreboards. And as long as we avoid facilities in Slovenia to take care of our wastes, of course we will also have to tell citizens that prices will increase. But this is not the biggest problem; the biggest problem is that even if we are willing to pay more, no one will want to take over these wastes; and then there will be a serious problem. So we're not just talking about the problem of the positions, we're talking about the problem of the system itself. If we do not set up a self - sufficient system at home, we will be willing to pay, for example, before the challenge or before the problem of not taking it anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u190	Right now, you're responsible for this area, which is why I'm asking you this. Some ambitious steps in this direction were foretold a year ago. I wouldn't read your coalition contract, what it says in there, I think we know that. But in a year, virtually no further step in this direction has taken place, as foretold. We all know that we do not currently have some systemic solutions, that we do not have some practical solutions, that in a year we have practically not even come to determine whether any of the existing locations where the heat treatment of these wastes is already being carried out are appropriate or not, whether a new location should be sought. This is the task of the ministry and the government to do so. The year was for this time, and I think we could already have answers today, either at any of the existing locations by expanding the activity or at a new location. They've been heat-treated in Celje for many years, but there's no problem. Waste is in the final stage, if properly treated and properly regulated, good business. And if they are properly addressed and properly regulated, it also means that the price for sorting waste, disposal, destruction for the final user is said to be the average household and entrepreneur, can be lower but not higher. If we do so, this price will not only rise to the sky, but Slovenia will begin to choke in the garbage, which will be a significantly bigger problem than just price dependence. And that's why I really want to answer the question. When we discussed this law last year, the minister said that 28 contracts had been signed for the accumulated waste packaging already under the regulation. So I want to know: How many more contracts have been signed in the course of the year to remove the accumulated waste packaging and candles? And if there were 10,000 tons of waste packaging and 2,000 tons of candles last year, how much is that today? Has the State applied the first paragraph of Article 8 of this Intervention Act and applied regressive claims to those in place of which it has removed the packaging and candles?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u192	I would send you the exact number of contracts later because I don't have them on me now, when and how many we signed. On the other hand, according to an inspection report, candles are regularly removed. The problems are those candles which the state or inspection has identified as state-owned under the intervention law. These are the candles that piled up by last year. It is not true that we did not perform activities at this time. Of course, these activities run all the time. However, it is so that the law of ZVO-1K is in fact quite demanding, changing the system of dissemination of responsibility itself and it is very important that we prepare it well so that when it comes into force, we do not have any new problems. For this reason, coordination within the Ministry itself takes a little longer now, that is to say with the Environment Agency and inspection, that everyone will know the same things about the brothers and know how to implement this law. As I said, by the end of this week we will send him back to a shorter public debate and then forward to the procedure. It's for the objects themselves. The cell incinerator is now allowed 30 000 in an environmental permit, with an additional capacity of 10 000. That's going to be upgraded, too. But we don't have anything else. As we know, TES itself has started some procedures to change the environmental permit in order to achieve co-incineration. Then there's something else in Anhove. But in the end, we will come to the point that we will have to set up at least another thermal treatment facility, in my opinion, given what I know now. It is important for such a facility that it uses the best technology, that the measurements are made public daily and that all the profits from this activity are returned to the fact that this technology is constantly being upgraded and updated, that we really have the highest possible care for air, environment and water. As I said about the contracts themselves, if you agree, I would send you exactly when one was signed and how much money. The recovery itself follows after a new year through procedures to recover these funds, which we, as a country, have laid down to be the waste packaging that should have been taken away by other establishments, which have also collected money to take it away, and they have not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I mean, after a year, it would be right for the National Assembly to hold a debate on this area. Finally, as I mentioned, 15 days later this so-called intervention law, which also provided for certain obligations of the State in this area, would cease to apply. Today we were not familiar with some figures, but I think that would be the right thing to be. The purpose of this debate is also to learn how and how this law was implemented in 2019, What is now the statistics of this implementation, how many regression claims? To this day, if I understand correctly, there has not been anything to be established after the new year. And what is the quantity of these wastes, waste packagings and candles that are still on these landfills? This is one aspect of this debate. The second, more important part, I think, is how and how our country should act in this area in the future, because there are problems in all segments. Last time you mentioned that there are problems with waste mud from cleaning appliances and so on. Slovenia will obviously, if there are no measures in this area and measures in a relatively short period of time, be ripe again for a new intervention law; this is probably not what no one wants. I think it is right to hold a debate in this National Assembly, to obtain precise information in this debate on this area, to hear the solutions that are being offered, and to identify between these solutions, which are probably different and which also mean different financial frameworks, to these solutions in a way that is more appropriate for our country, which is less appropriate. The new law was announced for the spring of this year. Now it is the end of the year, the minister has now announced that we should have it by spring, and the public debate was concluded on 8 July this year. Now it's the end of the year. Six months of a vacuum that's not exactly known what's been going on during this period. Most concerned, however, is that this novel is foretold that this legislation will not be enforced until two years later, that is, with 1. 1. 2022. In short, a few questions arise, a few questions that require answers. Waste legislation must also be such as to ensure, on the one hand, the proper management of these wastes, proper treatment, adequate security in doing so; and, on the other hand, that the solutions chosen are, which also represent the most optimal price framework for the population and for businesses, and, of course, solutions that mean, as the Minister himself has said, the use of the best technological solutions in doing so. I must say that I have personally assessed that all these answers will be received by the end of this year and that we will have at least the first reading of this law at this meeting. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and I suggest that if this debate is voted on, we take advantage of and discuss these matters before the law comes into the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Violeta Tomić will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. First of all, let me express my dissatisfaction at the fact that both of my questions, which I have carefully prepared, have gone without a title, because the two ministers I have asked them the question are absent, as are a large part of the Government. I demand an answer at the next meeting. The Left, as you know, is the only party that consistently opposes the so-called privatisation that has proved to be harmful. Moreover, you're not even able to verify who you're actually selling our vital interests to. Let me just remind you of the attempt to sell Telekom, which Levica stopped at the last minute just by disclosing certain documents. At that time, Miro Cerar explained to us about some credibility to others, but I don't know what commitment to not knowing any foreigners. At that time, even the Secretary of Defense flew away, who just wanted to know how this sale would affect the security of the state. The airport of Brnik and our air carrier Adria, who was once our pride, were also on this self-destructive list of the government of Alenka Bratušek. And this list was then duly ruled out by your government, in which you were already, in your previous mandate, Minister of Economy. We first recapitalised Adria Airways, like banks, and then sold it to the German 4K Investment Fund or, more specifically, AA International Holding, which was established only for the purpose of this acquisition and registered in Malta, but which is a known tax oasis. Despite many warnings, Adria Airways was sold together with highly qualified, trained and loyal personnel. While our pilots, stewardesses and staff have been burning from too much work, the company has recorded increasing losses, not surprisingly, as the company has exhausted over millions of remittances into tax havens, millions of advisory contracts and high wages of leaders, for which every trace has now been erased. It is already clear that 4K Invest left behind a mountain resort, deprived taxpayers in at least three European countries, namely Switzerland, Estonia and Slovenia. And now that the forensic investigation of the 50 million hole and business has begun, the companies through which 4K Invest controlled Adrio are shutting down each other, the network of the group no longer has to find individuals who played an important role in the purchase, it is deleted from the global web. That's why I'm asking you: How is it possible that, despite all the warnings from the media and the profession, you haven't checked who you're selling our airline to? Are you prepared to take responsibility for the serious damage to state property, taxpayers and the interests of the state of Slovenia? Since every trace has been wiped out for foreign owners, do you agree that responsibility must be established for the sale by sellers, the Government of Mira Cerar and SDH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Would you like an oral response to the next meeting? Okay, you'll get an oral response. Ms Nina Maurovic will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku and Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenki Brother. They're both gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. I would like an answer in writing. I ask the following: in the process of closing RTH and its liquidation next year, there is an intensive sale of the assets of that company. Indeed, the government has called on SDH to ensure that RTH will rapidly carry out the necessary activities in connection with the disposal of the company's immovable and movable property. All of this is understandable when it comes to movable and immovable property related to the mine itself as such. But in the centuries of mining in Zasavje, the mine has become involved in numerous periods of life there — cultural, sports, social, and so on. The infrastructure owned by the current company RTH is thus the annual home of the Rudarska godbe Hrastnik, the shooting site of the Strel Society, the premises of the Retired Society of Hrastnik, the premises of the youth club and the beekeeping house of the Beekeeping Society of Hrastnik. All of this was built by voluntary work, voluntary contributions and donations from different legal entities and given to citizens. As part of the public interest are also areas dedicated to building housing and building old people's homes, tourism, culture and public services, including the mining apartment museum, which is a monument of local importance, areas above the entrance to the trench, recreation facilities, a potential cemetery space, market plots, functional areas around the existing home of older people, three water-food areas and public parking areas. It is unacceptable to sell areas for which there is a strong public interest. At the same time, these are areas where European funds could be drawn from promising funds for the restructuring of the mining regions. At the same time, the municipality has no money to invest in the purchase. Especially is the controversial sale of the mining house, which was built in 1953 with 13,000 998 hours of voluntary work by miners and concubines. Since this is a specific case with which we certainly do not meet for the first time and for the last time – because in the coming decades the closing of the Velenje mine is also promising – I ask the following questions: In what way should RTH, d. o. o. be able to carry out a free transfer of infrastructure of public interest to interested municipalities? Do you believe that the consistent pursuit of the greatest financial interest achieved by SDH in the case of public interest infrastructure is justified and appropriate, as this directly causes serious damage to the local community? How will the competent ministry be involved in solving this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Ambassador Tadej Šuštar will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u200	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister! On the website of the historical archive of Ljubljana, we can read that it is a public institution in the field of culture established by the country. His primary mission is to store archival materials, our priceless cultural heritage and cultural monuments. Just as the archive material, which is kept, is permanent and of particular importance for the science, culture and legal security of the inhabitants, so the institution that feeds this material is set up as the guardian of our cultural identity and the foundation of democracy. The historical archive of Ljubljana, as well as the archive of the Republic of Slovenia, has for at least a decade drawn attention to the spatial distress and inadequacy of the premises. It's a failure. When the historical archive of Ljubljana was finally able to adapt the premises to this extent to meet the minimum standards, they had to face the cancellation of the lease, which only increases the spatial agony of the archive. Dear Minister, together with the historic archive of Ljubljana, I urge you to begin your activities immediately to prevent the black scenario of forced eviction into inappropriate areas, thus protecting an invaluable archive heritage. I want to know: What measures and what time frame will you take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u202	Your Honor, thank you for this question. The Ministry of Culture has been actively working for some time in the direction of solving the spatial problem of the historical archive of Ljubljana; this has been the case since the day we received a notice from the Institute that the Municipal Municipality of Ljubljana has cancelled the lease. We immediately asked the State's Attorney for assistance or representation in the procedure for the cancellation of the lease and held interviews with the City Municipality to withdraw or suspend the procedure for the cancellation of leases for premises located in buildings on the City Market and Cyril-Metodov Square, which are, of course, occupied by the historical archive of Ljubljana. Or to allow MOL to rent until the construction of a new archive on land in Kvedrova 9 in Ljubljana, which is owned by the country and in our administration. Regrettably, the talks with the Municipality of Ljubljana for the historical archive of Ljubljana have not been successful so far. We also started the process of examining all possible options on the market with the Historical Archive at the same time, where we could move the Historical Archive. First, we submitted an inquiry to all ministries, so that we have not yet received all the answers. However, those who have already sent their answers have reported that property with the characteristics described, because the archive requires specific conditions, do not have. We also took note of the premises on Kotnikova 28 in Ljubljana and in the former urshulink monastery in Kamnik, which has been owned by Kamnik Municipality since 2016. The historical archive of Ljubljana will conduct a survey of the market for rent and redemption, prepare a table comparing individual locations, surfaces, prices per square metre, indicating whether the premises are qualified or required training; these are characteristics, monthly or possibly annual rent, findings, detailed descriptions. It will also provide an assessment of the appropriateness of the premises and an analysis of the situation and, of course, publish the public procurement of the premises. However, the Ministry of Culture will provide funds for renting for 2020 for the operation of the institution under existing measures. Under the budgetary capabilities, the Ministry of Culture will, of course, seek to provide funds for possible purchase and investment or continue activities for the new construction of the archive at the location of Kvedrova 9 in Ljubljana, which is owned by the State and managed by the Ljubljana Historical Archive.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question, Madam Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answer, too. I want to know: Do you have any time stamps, any specific hands, until when this could be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u206	The first emergency solution, if I say at home to save the historical archive before the summer of 2020, is already under way. Of course, the museum will not go on the road, it will not run out of suitable space. But in the long run, as I have already answered, we are thinking in two ways. One direction is to provide rental space or to buy suitable premises. That's the first solution. The second solution in which I see a more meaningful, rounded story in the future is the new building of a new archive that we all really need. Here I will also draw attention to the start of negotiations with the SVRK on the placement of the Ministry of Culture in the cut-off of the fourth perspective on the absorption of cohesion funds, and also to the fact that, within, at least in my opinion, governments, we can provide sufficient resources to finally obtain such an archive as the State. In any case, the historical archive will not be left to what the media sometimes says is waiting for it. This is not an option that would actually be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Ambassador Samo Bevk will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Jerne Pical and Minister of Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The operation and legal basis for the Botanical Garden of the University of Ljubljana is still based on the 1992 government's opinion, which states that until the establishment of a new garden on the Eternal Path, the garden is financed from educational activities only in the form of four gardeners. In almost 210 years of continuous operation, the Botanical Garden of the University of Ljubljana has long exceeded this agreement, not to say overgrown. The Botanical Garden, despite its smallness and non-systemic funding and inadequate staffing among the world’s botanical gardens, is recognized by the personal engagement of management and employees. He has achieved virtually everything possible in this area. With modest means and increasing dependence on the market activity of the garden it will be difficult at such a high level to maintain the basic activity, let alone invest in its upgrades. Since the Botanical Garden is recognized as a cultural and educational institution of national importance and a cultural monument, you are respected Minister Jernej Pikalo and Mag. Zoran Poznits, I ask: When will the document be prepared on the basis of which the Botanical Garden of the University of Ljubljana will be subject to systematic funding, which will enable the garden to strengthen its human resources, upgrade its activities and continue to take care of the protection of plant species on the basis of the recognitions and certificates received? I thank both ministers in advance for their response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Who would want to answer first? Minister of Education Dr. Pikalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Thank you very much also to the honourable Member for this question. Just the name of the botanical garden means that it is the Botanical Garden of the University of Ljubljana. It is not a separate legal person, but it is a botanical garden within the University of Ljubljana. As a result, all funding relating to the Botanical Garden is carried out within the framework of the funding of universities in the Republic of Slovenia. They have been financed by law since 2016. But for the implementation level, of course, we have a regulation. And as far as the Botanical Garden is concerned, I don't think it's true that it doesn't have regulated systemic funding because it has regulated systemic funding through the Higher Education Act, because it's one of the units of the University of Ljubljana. As the funding of higher education is systematically regulated and part of this higher education is, of course, the Botanical Garden of the University of Ljubljana. Secondly, it was already a regulation in 2009. The 2009 regulation added, I think it was then worth €120,000, because funding for higher education was still under the regulation; and since then this specific task of the University of Ljubljana has also been recognised in the money it receives from the Botanical Garden. I am not talking about whether this money is enough or not; I am just talking about that – as long as the Botanical Garden of the University of Ljubljana is part of the University of Ljubljana – its funding is systematically regulated. Secondly, as far as investment is concerned, it is the same as any other investment in higher education. We both know that in 2011 the last major investment in the so-called tropical garden was an arranged reception desk for guests, some other things were arranged, all of which amounted to €250,000. From an investment point of view, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport also takes care of all other parts of the higher education system so that the Botanical Garden can function.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Even the Minister of Mags. It's late. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you, also, on my part, honourable Member, for this question. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, as I have pointed out at a recent meeting with the Director of the Botanical Garden, it is our only chance to financially help the functioning of the Botanical Garden, an annual monument protection call for the co-financing of conservation and restoration projects. The next comes in the cut for 2021 and 2022. During the current period, only a million EUR 200 000 was available for the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, so that the applicant had to provide at least 50% of his own participation in the tender. The criteria for those applicants who have been successful in the tender shall be the level of their own resources. Hazard level [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Minister. You're no longer wired. Mr. Bevk, you have a supplement to the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will ask you an additional question so that you can complete your answer, Mr Culture Minister. However, I would say to Dr Pical that, at the principal level, he is perfectly right that the university is independent, autonomous, that it itself determines the financing of its colleges, departments within individual colleges and so on. However, I cannot ask the President of the University and the dean of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology a question, so I have addressed this question to the ministers of the competent government or the competent ministries. In the first year of the operation of the Slovenian University in the school year 1919/1920, Botanical Garden had at its disposal one tenth of the budget of the then Faculty of Philosophy. 100 years later, in 2019, he did not have enough gardeners at his disposal to water the garden, only for some normal work of a university institution that operates continuously – continuously – since 1810 and is the oldest higher education and cultural institution in Slovenia. Therefore, somehow from this city I appeal to the Government, and to both ministries, and to the University and the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, to arrange the status of the Botanical Garden, to obtain within the University a separate legal status, so that it will not be like a pingpong ball handed down to each other within the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering or University; but no one does what he should do for such an important institution, which has received the most important certificates in a global sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Late, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thanks again. Your Honor, I fully agree with you. Of course, the Minister of Education also agrees. We, too, see in culture the only possibility of somehow establishing a separate status for the Botanical Garden. My promise at the meeting at that time was also that the Ministry of Culture, including in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, would in fact do everything in our power to bring this transition to pass. Of course, all the activities carried out by the Botanical Garden for the entire population of our country are of exceptional importance, not only from the point of view of the centuries-old tradition, but also from the point of view of all that awaits us, all biodiversity, which is rapidly, very rapidly shrinking, is smaller. With all their activities, not only in the field of education, but also in general, as regards the culturalisation of the landscape and especially of the people, the Ministry of Culture is also of paramount importance to their activities. Once again, in my opinion, I can say on behalf of both of us that we will try to come up with a common solution; I will not say that in the short term, but that we can regulate this status even further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Ambassador Matei Udovč will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Message, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. In the office and in daily communication with citizens, my interlocutors have repeatedly warned and highlighted the problem of establishing an additional day of leave for working parents who have children under 15 years of age. The legal basis of this area is Article 159, paragraph 4, of the Labour Relations and Industrial Collective Contracts Act and other regulations. I am aware of these cases where employers interpret the exercise of this right in such a way as to deny the worker the right as early as the year when the child is 15 years old. For example, they are denied the right by a decision issued on leave in March, although the child is 15 years old in November. The main problem in the implementation of this provision arises when a child is 15 years of age, where there are different interpretations and practices of the human resources services, especially in certain commercial chains, in small businesses and other environments. Some staff services have introduced the practice that during the year when the child is 15 years old, their parents' employees are not entitled to an additional day of leave. For others, it is an important day in the year 31. 3. when the deadline for informing employees of the leave is reached. For the third, it is important to check the conditions for the allocation of additional leave days and the like. This creates a certain void, a legal inadequacy that skilled employers take advantage of. On the other hand, this uneven practice of setting additional days of leave causes a lot of bad will between employees who have the right to do so. As I did not find any appropriate legal explanation in this case, nor any case law, I am turning to you, Minister. By asking the question of the Member State, I wish to achieve a uniformity of practice and to prevent the playing of rules in this area from harming employees and their children. That's why I'm asking you: How is compliance with this criterion taken into account when a child reaches the age of 15 in a certain calendar year? Is there any difference in the determination of additional leave days if the child is 15 years old in January, May or December? Why is there no uniform practice for all employers in this area? In practice, how are employers penalised who for various reasons do not comply with this criterion and do not receive leave from employees? When is this criterion met during the calendar year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. The Labour Relations Act provides that annual leave for each calendar year shall not be less than four weeks, regardless of whether the worker is working full-time or working hours less than full-time. Furthermore, the Labour Relations Act also provides for cases where an employee is already subject to additional annual leave on the basis of his personal and social circumstances. Thus, the worker is entitled to one additional day of annual leave for any child who has not yet reached the age of 15. A longer duration of annual leave than provided for by the Labour Relations Act may be determined by collective agreement or contract of employment. With regard to the question of how to take personal circumstances into account when weighing an additional day of annual leave, we note that the Act on Working Relations does not deal with this issue in more detail. Since collective agreements also lay down other circumstances and criteria justifying workers until the additional days of annual leave, I believe that it is appropriate and also necessary to deal with that issue in more detail in collective agreements and that this takes into account the uniform system of criteria for all workers employed by the employer. However, with regard to the legal arrangements for additional annual leave days, in principle, I believe that it is appropriate to take into account the circumstances prevailing at the beginning of the current calendar year for which annual leave is given, as well as the circumstances justifying workers until additional leave days which arise later in the individual calendar year in which the worker is entitled to an annual leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I would only ask if you knew, if you didn't, and you could also reply in writing: In practice, how is it sanctioned for employers who do not comply with a collective agreement or who do not provide for additional leave days when the child is 15 years old, say, in December? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u224	If such infringements occur either in a collective agreement or in a contract of employment, this is, of course, an offence followed by a fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Jerne Pikalu. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u226	Your Honor, thank you for your word. And I'm just gonna start by telling me the popular poet Cyril the Evil One, I'm sorry for the dead man. He said these words at the 30th jubilee book fair in Cankarjev: “The book conveys the greatest ranges of national and individual spirit of time and space.” He wanted to tell us how important books and libraries are in the Slovenian space and in our society. Now, I would like to present you with a timeline so that you can understand why I am asking this question today. In fact, I am asking a question about the construction of NUK 2, this is the new National and University Library in Ljubljana. In 1987, she took the initiative or even began to think in this direction that a new building of the National and University Library should be built as soon as possible. In 1994, the Law on the Construction of the University Library in Ljubljana was passed. In 1999, archaeological research into the planned construction site was completed and then the NUK 2 project lasted for 10 years or for 8 years; by 2008, when the Court of Auditors’ audit of this year, where the Court of Auditors also found that data on the project were insufficient and did not represent a complete picture of the project, it was not possible to calculate the exact amount of funds used until then. In 2012, a new competition was launched in which a designer or bureau project by Bevk Perović was selected, which said something very interesting at the time, namely that during the period of socialism, there was a huge construction in the fifties; and in the years of the new country very little. And since this saga lasts and lasts, and I also think that the price of this project is slowly approaching 50 million, I am interested in: Why should we believe that even this year's million and a million that are needed in the coming year to obtain a building permit, two more will not blow up a million dollars in the construction of the new NUK 2 building? At what stage is the collection of documentation that we've been doing for the nth time, and in my pious hope that for the last time? I conclude that you have prepared a timeframe on the construction and completion of project NUK 2. I'm asking you to reveal it to us. I also ask for the disclosure of the framework financial structure of the NUK 2 project itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also thank you very much for this question, Mr Member. Everything you've been saying is, of course, true. Since 1994, we have adopted a law on the National and University Library in this National Assembly. Then you also correctly stated that in 2012 there was a new architectural competition. Now, to those acts that have been done; not to be back until 1987, because it is 32 years from then, and unfortunately the matter has not moved. In the summer of 2013, this new architectural solution was purchased by Bevk Perović architects. At that time, a contract was also concluded which provides for all stages of the documentation. Last May, I think it was May 20th, with Bevk Perović, the architects signed an addition to this contract in order to obtain all the necessary documentation. You are right that this was estimated at 1 million in 2019 and another 1 million in 2020. What's going on with this thing right now? Documentation shall be prepared for the building permit. At present, this dossier is with the competent opinioners, as it concerns public infrastructure, because of the fact that all the consensus that was once given was already due to the new building legislation and, in fact, it has already expired. Therefore, we need first to have an opinion from the opinion of the rapporteurs in order to have a positive opinion on the proposed project solutions. Solutions for the construction project (PZI) are also in place. At the same time, this must be said, there is the NUK land management process led by LGB, d. o.o. There are also arrangements with the Municipality of Ljubljana for balancing opinions, building rights for individual land to the extent that we, of course, need to build NUK 2. We are counting in accordance with the timetable, which is also part of this contract, in order to be submitted as soon as possible for the building permit and then as much as we need for the building permit itself. As far as construction operations are concerned, we do not yet have a new project, but it would take about three years, according to current projections. About three years after the current calculations, again after the current calculations. However, since the prices of construction services vary on the market and may or may be even higher or even lower, the whole project is estimated at around EUR 50 million. So three years, 50 million, and then finally, we're delivering equipment for the National and University Library. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u230	Your honor, thank you for your word. I will read to the Minister and to all of you in the Chamber what has been published on the official website of the National and University Library in Ljubljana or NUK 2: »In the 21st century we still need libraries. The traditional tasks of the library remain largely relevant and are complemented by new ones, which are dictated by the needs and expectations of today's users. Digital accessibility increases interest in physical material, establishing new relations between the library and its users. We urgently need a new building in which it will be possible to establish an open knowledge centre and a democratic space, a dialogue generator where it is permitted and desirable to discuss, oppose and question. A space of confidence and optimism where new ideas can arise and grow. The centre of learning in all ways and for all periods. A space that enables social communication between students of different higher education institutions and will realize the idea of the centre of the university and a vibrant academic event. The area of meeting and cooperation where the library enters into a diverse relationship with users and partners. The space created by users through their activities and supporting their creativity. There is still the possibility that NUK 2 will be one of the most excellent intellectual public spaces in Slovenia." That's why I want to know: Are you preparing for the construction of NUK 2 to amend the existing law, and what will these changes involve in essence? Is the construction of NUK 2 really in the interest and plan of this government and your ministry?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Once again, as far as this role you've been citing is concerned, I think we have an almost identical opinion, not just the same. And as far as the architects have explained to me, of course technological progress has been taken into account on one hand, because technological progress has been remarkable in all these years. But on the other hand, what you read is exactly what you read, so as a meeting place, a democratic dialogue, more things prepared for people to come together, learn from each other and so on. It's not just a physical bookstore, it's a lot more. The amendment of the NUK 2 Act is one of the options we are overplaying. At the Ministry, we are determined to go this way, of course, even in cooperation with the other ministries. We're preparing solutions. If you ask me for my interest, I don't think it's a matter of one government's interest; it's a national interest. This is not about what I think, what my colleague, Minister of Finance, or anyone else, is thinking; it is about a matter of national interest. And we have to work in this direction properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u234	Your Honor! Thanks again for saying that. From my 20-year work experience, when I worked as a librarian at the Ivana Potrča Ptuj Library, I can say that basically the library is the social, cultural and social heart of every environment in which it works and lives. And because I believe that this saga must not only end as soon as possible, but also then succeed as NUK 2, I propose to the National Assembly – and also the Rules of Procedure – this allows us to have a broader discussion on the planning of the construction of the new National and University Library (NUK 2). In the end, I'll just say, "Every society has a dream." Those who want to do so must invest in reading, heart, and knowledge. It's worth reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Vojko Starović will ask the finance minister Dr. Andre Bertonclj and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is absent. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u236	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Hello, all present. With the bankruptcy of Adrie Airways, Slovenia lost its domestic carrier with a 58-year-old tradition. With this we have also lost an important part of our Slovenian identity, since Adria was one of the bearers of the internationalisation of Slovenia, its opening and its integration with the world. Despite Adria's recent transfer to foreign ownership, it was a Slovenian carrier established in Slovenia with a Slovenian licence whose aviation and business operations were linked to Slovenia. That's where Adria paid her taxes. That's where most of her employees came from. Adria was also the top of aviation knowledge in Slovenia, which stems from a rich tradition that dates back 110 years to the very beginning of the development of aviation in the world. With the loss of a domestic air carrier, we are losing an important part of the unsustainable capital that is the most valuable form of capital for the survival and development of any nation. It's about knowledge and competence. Moreover, in the value chain, the airline represents a very important article in all areas where the state wants to expand its influence and business. Air carriers are strategic development companies, part of the competitive advantages of the country and its identity. Remember KLM, Lufthansa, British Airways, Swiss. Therefore, I also welcome the initiative of Minister Restovalska to seek a solution, together with DUBT, for Slovenia to have an air carrier in the future, thereby preserving all the advantages that this fact brings. In doing so, Minister Restovalšek said he was committed to revitalising the company in cooperation with a foreign strategic partner because he was convinced that Slovenia's connection would never be as good as it was when we had our national airline. However, it is known that in any event the State will have to devote certain sums of money to a domestic or foreign carrier for good aviation connections. The decision was promised in a short time because there is no time. The government is supposed to look at the numbers and then decide. I ask both distinguished ministers: Have you decided yet? There has certainly been a thorough reflection on whether the matter is financially worthwhile. What's your position on this? Can you share with us and with the public any of the above numbers you have seen? How much would the start-up costs be, and how much would it cost us to maintain the needed lines annually?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. Dear Member! We live in a digital society. If you have looked at today's STA news, you can also see the government's response to this question regarding the creation of a new air carrier in an exclusive or partial state where it was considered unlikely, as the risks are very high, especially with the anticipated programmed loss. We haven't detected any significant shifts in this area. This, of course, was only one possibility of ensuring the connectivity of Slovenia with the world. You mentioned the Minister of Economy's initiative. Unfortunately, he's not with us today to say it in detail. However, I can say that the Ministry of Finance is indeed the Ministry of Finance of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, but DUTB has not cooperated on the subject of the possible establishment of a new airline. It also gave them no instructions or orders in this regard. We also received no calculations from DUTB on the possible establishment of a new airline, which we have previously communicated. This communication was led by the Ministry of Economy. Today, the prime minister has already given the answer and I would only like to refer to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question, Mr Member? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you very much for your answer. Since he advocated this matter and pointed out some solutions, I would also like to have the oral response of Minister Restovalska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We can proceed. Ambassador Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenka Bratušek, who is absent, and Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Since Minister Alenka Bratušek is not present, I would like her to give an oral answer at the next meeting. But I'm going to ask Minister Rabbit a question. Do you know that in Slovenia the very big problem with waste that we have and we have to drive for large money to be burned abroad could be solved at home by a process of catalytic depolymerisation that allows the processing of waste into synthetic diesel fuel, which can then be used immediately in cars, in a very efficient and economical way, in a very expensive waste incineration problem? In our country, four such facilities, which are the fruit or product of Slovenian knowledge, would be sufficient for the processing of 625 thousand 250 tonnes of municipal waste, as was left unrecycled last year. From a thousand tons of waste, we'd get about 500 liters of diesel, killing two flies at a time. We'd solve the waste problem, and at the same time, we'd make money selling diesel fuel. It is also very important that these four devices be located at four different ends of Slovenia, so as to also reduce the transport costs of transporting waste across the country, if of course the equipment did not drive around. I want to know: Will and how will the ministry be helped to finally make Slovenia the first one to show Europe and the world how to solve the waste problem and make money? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! At our ministry, we were introduced to this project in December. This project is still in the pilot phase. How many such facilities would we need for Slovenian needs, at this point I find it difficult to say. As far as we know, one of these objects has been processing 5,000 tons. If we go according to our plans to reduce the amount of waste and to accelerate and encourage other measures in the waste hierarchy first, that is to say, prevention of waste generation, reuse, recycling, then such treatment, we expect that in about ten years we will talk about the amount of up to 200,000 tonnes of waste that would be suitable for such treatment. So if one of these objects has processed 5,000 tons a year, then you can calculate that 40 should be built in the form that they are now. In order for this technology to develop, our ministries are allocating funds from the climate fund, i.e. for carbon technologies, and also for green jobs, we have the means to co-finance, which means that an investor or developer of this technology can also come to us if private investors do not. Because if a pilot project like this turns out to be effective, I see no reason why they should not be set up in Slovenia, because this should not be a problem. Thus, if it comes to the fact that such an object can be built from the pilot version for a greater extent, it can then be set up and used in Slovenia. We are committed to the development of such technologies from our ministry, and in this case, we will, if they run for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Then let's move on. The Magnificent Messenger. Dejan Kaloh will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. The secretary's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u246	Dear Vice President, thank you so much for your words! I'd like a written answer from the minister. Dear Minister Bratušek, I would like to ask you about open infrastructure projects in and around Maribor. We have seen that after years of warning, finally now with the government regulation tolling on the fast road H2 through Maribor will finally end. However, I would like to ask you if you will now, Madam Minister, perform any audits, particularly on the illegal fines paid by drivers. As we know, tolling was now illegal, a certain quota of people was still paying a fine because it was driving on a Maribor fast road without a vignette. But as we can see, the situation was illegal and unfair. My question is: In this regard, will you review these sentences and perhaps take concrete action? Madam Minister, when can the Mariborians expect the construction of the entire Maribor Southern Carnivore? I ask you for an exact timeline, when the buildings and land will be redeemed, when will you obtain the documentation and when will the building permits be issued. How is it with the choice of the construction contractor and how is it with the provision of the financial structure? We also want the Mariborians, of course, to have this heavy traffic in the direction of the Koroška exemption from the Maribor city center and, as a result, to breathe more clean air. When will the Maribor airport, if I put it a little bit plastic, rise from the dead? When will we have an operational, attractive airport, such as the Austrians in Graz, even in the second largest Austrian city? When will this be in Maribor? Have you already made a call trying to find a serious, credible, long-term strategic partner to finally revive this Maribor airport? Have you been active in the DN lately? At the Ministry of Environment, they say they're in preparation, but they're expecting that initiative from you. It is said that the matter depends on your follow-up. The most important thing in this regard is: Does this new DN extend the airport path? I'm asking for some specific information. Of course, even with regard to the fast rail line between Maribor and Ljubljana. You yourself said that the Stajers will be driving for the next fall hour and a half – the travel time between Maribor and Ljubljana will be short. I want to know: To this point, what has the working group, which was set up to have access to the fast rail link from Maribor to Ljubljana? Madam Minister, to conclude, today your colleague, Mlinareva, quickly received Slovenian citizenship, so I appeal to you that she will also be expressly fast in the field of infrastructure. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Ambassador Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u248	All in attendance, all in attendance! Already at the 13th meeting, this was on 18 November, I asked the Minister of Infrastructure about solar power plants after their lifetime. Unfortunately, I didn't get a specific answer. It is, however, as often happens, that the Ministry of Infrastructure is responsible for energy, but it is not responsible for waste, which will become solar power plants after the end of operation. In Slovenia there are many solar power plants that have been operating for many years. Moreover, citizens are constantly besieged with offers to build new ones, and they are interested in what will happen to them once they become waste that is not yet used. This reminds me of our story with a nuclear device, when for 40 years, despite many promises of politicians and experts, radioactive waste has not been taken care of. But the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is a state matter, and this is about private investors being invited by the state to invest, which no one knows what the final price will be. People fear that the country will finally punish them with some decommissioning tax, as is the case with saloon boards. This tax is now not included in the investment price. Mr. Minister, I therefore ask you: How far is Slovenia with the strategy of decomposing or decomposing solar cells after the end of their lifetime? Where will used parts of the power plants be delivered, and what will be the price? What will be the cost of this disposal for owners or investors?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u250	Thank you. Thank you for asking, too. I would start by not having to worry about citizens and citizens investing in solar power plants being financially responsible for these solar panels. In fact, solar panels, modules, are between electrical and electronic equipment and for electrical and electronic equipment we have a regulation on electrical and electronic equipment, which means that at this waste stream a scheme of extended producer responsibility is in place. Which means that manufacturers will, by now, be responsible only financially, so that they will continue to broadcast this to the processors of electrical and electronic equipment. In the future, when we adopt the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act, they will also be organisationally responsible for ensuring that these panels, after they are no longer usable, are also adequately taken care of after the end of their lives. So it's being processed. Whether they will ensure this in Slovenia or abroad will, of course, depend on them, but, investors – i.e. citizens, citizens – will not pay extra for it. They will give these modules, which will no longer be usable after their lifetime, to the collector free of charge because financial and later organisational producers will be responsible for this – not for themselves, but for the producers of these modules – as is the case today for television or for any other such waste, such as candles. Even when you buy a candle, you don't worry about it being processed, but the producers pay for it because it's already included in the price when you buy it. So, once again: just like for current electrical and electronic equipment, for example for televisions, refrigerators and so on, modules from solar power plants will also be taken care of. However, it is up to producers themselves and not individuals or investors to provide financial and organisational services.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you. Dear Minister, the most interesting thing is those who already have solar panels: Where can the panels be deposited in Slovenia? I didn't get an answer to that question. Then what you say – okay, maybe I agree with you, but, as I know, right now in Austria, someone who took these used panels to the dump – has to pay 300 euros to the owner. There's something wrong here. People will have this on the roofs, on the pastures, wherever it's laid. Once this thing's gone, once it's gone, I don't know where they'll go. This is a big fear because we currently do not have a landfill in Slovenia to take it. It's not like the TV, like the radio, like those electrical devices that you can take to the dump and sort them specifically there. Therefore, this should be systematically regulated, perhaps it would also make sense for the Ministry to invite all those who already have landfills to be co-financed by the state to build a depot for these panels. I don't know. I'm most interested: Will they be able to place these dumps and where? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u254	The State will not co-finance deposits for these panels because the panels are obliged to be provided financially by manufacturers. Even today, so if a panel has already spent its life today, although very few, they are not usually in the current, because somewhere we expect this flow of panels to start to occur in 10, 12 years, depending on the life expectancy of 30 and more years. But even today, if someone is concerned about citizens, citizens and does not know where to put it, they can contact their manufacturer, that is, the one who sold it to him, and ask who he made the contract with. So, which collector did he make a contract with to have the panel take over? He has to take them for free! Because the extended producer's liability applies here and it is the manufacturer who is responsible. And the manufacturer will also have to either find someone to process it, expose it, recycle it, or abroad. A small part of it will then be delayed. It's about processing, just like it's about television. It doesn't work, it doesn't dump. Manufacturers signed an agreement with the company to handle this equipment and then it collects its share from the utilities. Therefore, the proportion for which the contract is signed that the manufacturer has placed the products on the market is then taken over. The same goes for these panels. So once again: citizens themselves do not need to worry about it, nor do they need to worry about paying for it. I don't know how they do it in Austria, but we have an extended producer's responsibility here on this stream, which means that producers are paying for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jože Lenart will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Chairman. In view of the absence of the Minister, I also have a desire, because I believe that this question is also current and I would like to have an oral answer at one of the next meetings. We all want to live in an efficient and successful country and the way there leads through a successful economy and also an effective public administration. Our goal is to improve the situation of all three generations of society, young and active and older alike. However, the technological progress we have achieved in recent years must be used to improve the quality of life. After its independence, Slovenia became active in the international environment, which included the most successful transition countries at that time. It showed sustained economic growth at an average of around 4% of GDP. In the last part of 2008, growth began to decline due to international factors. There has been a significant backlog in the crisis for the average economic development of the European Union countries. A number of macroeconomic imbalances have broken, and economic decline has also exacerbated the material situation of the population. In 2015, the public deficit decreased by 3% of GDP, exports and state investments stimulated economic growth, unemployment fell visibly, household income improved. The growth of private consumption and private investment has also increased. Growth in economic activity has again exceeded the average of the European area. However, GDP is reaching 85% of the European Union average. The added value itself does not exceed 70% of the European Union average. Thus, the Slovenian economy's peak set itself a very concrete goal of reaching EUR 60 000 of net added value to the employee by 2025, raising the average wage to EUR 2 000 gross. This is a 35% increase, given 2018, when we reached the net added value of 44 000 415 per employee and a 21% increase in gross salary, which in 2018 amounted to EUR 652. Exports are expected to rise to €50 billion, resulting in higher wages for the employee and higher inflows to the budget. That's why I'm asking: How will the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology pursue this objective, and with what measures will the objective set be achievable? Is this also the objective of restructuring the Slovenian economy through the transition of labour intensive industries to highly productive and technological industries? Last question: How We Follow the Equitable Development of the Regions and How [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Time's up, buddy. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting if the Minister is present. Ambassador Franz Rosec will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In Slovenia we have in the past devoted a great deal of attention to the construction of cleaning facilities, which has significantly helped to improve the condition of our waters. Of course, we know that every manufacturing process, as well as cleaning appliances, has a side product that you want or do not want to process somehow. Of course, in Slovenia we left this concern to other countries after this technological transformation of this by-product or municipal mud. For we have decided to export this communal mud. Until recently, Saubermacher and Raw materials had been authorised to export this municipal mud to Hungary. According to some informal information, this Saubermacher licence is no longer valid and Surovina is expected to have a valid authorisation somewhere by May 2020. We are talking about about 70,000 tonnes per year of this communal mud, and of this it is very significant that out of these 70,000 tonnes, 50,000 tonnes were exported by Saubermacher. In the current situation, the operators of cleaning facilities for these 50,000 tons are left to themselves or are looking for solutions to this problem. We do know, however, that in the past, even now, the country does not decide to solve this problem alone or to process this technical product in the country itself. For the sake of visualism, let me tell you something else – or we're going to process some minimum amount of mud, and that's about 5,000 tons a year, it gets energy in Celje for energy use, and a little bit in that biogas plant in Prekmurje, but that's a very small amount. I'm asking the minister: In addition to meetings, what was done specifically on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u260	Thank you and thank you for asking. The mud from the cleaners is my new problem. But not because the country in the past did not want to and the country decided to export; it is not. What's the matter? Economic public service is only the cleaning of waste municipal waters; it is said that the cleaning plant needs to clean these waters before you let them go. What goes on with mud is a simple market activity. As this has so far been a mere market activity, it has happened that because it has been cheaper to export mud abroad, especially in Hungary, this system has not been installed in us. Since none of the costs such as Saubermacher and Raw materials were capable of taking him to Hungary, he was unable to establish a system in our country. And even those who tried and started did so because no cleaning plant or public economic service operator decided to turn over this mud at home, but it all went to export. However, when they decided to close the border in Hungary, this is of course a state problem. Now something is expected to be found after a rapid procedure. As soon as I was informed that in the light of the local elections in Hungary they intended to close the border or no longer accept mud from abroad, I immediately contacted my colleague in Hungary and went there to attend the meeting. My aim was to achieve at least a transitional period of about a year and a half to two years in order for us at home to set up our drying system and also thermal treatments. Now it was incinerated somewhere, but in the long run it will be necessary to build a single object because of the ashes where the mud will be heat-treated, after the technology is sufficiently developed, or the phosphorus will be produced from or extracted from this ash. It will therefore be necessary to set up a system of drying, mono-incineration, ash storage and then later, when the technology is sufficiently advanced, including phosphorus extraction from this ash. But we already have a problem. What do we do now? At this point, we are checking in other countries, not Austria or Hungary, but in other countries with potential capacities to accept this mud, if they are willing to accept it, and how ready it is and at what price. So this is how we help our cleaners across this state level for this moment to find customers. But we need to be aware, for example, if we find ourselves out there in the north of France, what this will mean for the costs. These costs, we know where they'll know each other at the end – they'll know each other on the billboards. Just as it was now known at the lower rates, because this was exported to Hungary, if we find it, I hope that we will find it, it will be somewhat known on the positions in a negative sense. So that these costs will increase. But I want to, and in this direction, we will work to put the system in place with us within two years. So to set up and the possibility of drying, to prepare this mud either for co-incineration or for export somewhere else and to set up a single-incineration facility in Slovenia, to be like other waste streams, we must become self-sustaining. However, it is important to be aware of the example of a cell incinerator. As long as the trash could be exported abroad, they were more expensive than the bidders and also the mud did not burn in the past because it was cheaper to drive out. Now it's turned. But we need to be aware that when we go to go home to set up a system, that it can come back in two years and again to some change and that the foreign will again be inclined to take over either our mud or we can fraction. But then we'll have to understand why we built the system so that we don't export, but we'll take care of it at home first. Because once you put all the technology in place, when you invest, it doesn't go away because the flow has opened up, but you understand that that short time you're going to pay a little bit more than you would for exports, but you're in the long-term provided and you're in the long-term handling of these shocks that you can and that the market is experiencing right now so that you can handle them. So I hope that first of all we will find another European country that will take over this mud, and we are also looking for those urgent, temporary solutions to us. And I hope we don't really need to enforce them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u262	Thank you, Mr. Secretary for your answer. I think he said quite a bit of good truth; that we don't have some kind of incinerator and some facility for this process of municipal mud was the main reason for the financial aspect. So someone was serving on this account, they got some revenue, and now that the devil took a joke, when certain customers started closing their doors or giving conditions, it's on the burden of the state. Now we know some solution, as you yourself have said, that if we drive this mud far away, it will be a financial burden for our citizens, but there is also a problem if there is no solution. We know that a cleaning plant has a process of its own, it can combine some mud in some pools for a while, then in some reservoirs, but when it runs out, then it will be a problem, because then the cleaning process will go down. It is said that cleaning will only be worse and we will flush into our watercourses, not as clean water as now from these cleaning plants, but water quality will be worse. So we'll go back to where we were. And that's what worries our country. It is said that some financial group has something to do with what should be the trend and the concern of the citizens. So this is where we should do something about it. So I really hope that some solution will be given, but now everyone knows that we have a problem and the price will only be higher. It'll never be lower than it was in Hungary. This will then be reflected in the positions of citizens. It would be very good to see once again who this financial lobby is behind, who is always blocking this and the burden – at the expense of his ratings, at the expense of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u264	Yeah, you got it right. Maybe in just one part, from the time this problem occurred in the fall, I've been dealing with it, and I've been talking to some cleaners. But do you know how it used to be? They had a hard time justifying it at home for higher money, and we know who the founders of cleaning facilities were; they were mayors, municipalities. They have demanded that this go to the cheapest possible option, because this is the most favourable option for citizens. Now this has turned out to be a knee shot, because these figures will rise due to such decisions, then reasonable ones, of course. But my opinion, once again, is that in view of the hierarchy of waste management, we will have to make sure that we have as few of them as possible to use them repeatedly to process them. But at the end of the day, when it comes to processing them, we need to have this infrastructure at home for at least 80%. So when such shocks occur across the border, abroad, it does not disturb the whole system or the whole country. This will be an ecological challenge, an ecological problem if this water starts to flow past the cleaning plants. I hope that this will not happen, however, in this short period of time, we will be able to find temporary solutions that, I hope, will also be as sustainable as possible financially and ecologically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u266	I think that this is a topic that needs a broader debate, even given that today I have dealt with only this communal mud. There are also light factions of other wastes, which I think are also concerned with all our citizens and our descendants. If we can do something in this national assembly, we can do so by opening a serious debate on this subject. That is why I think it is good that a broader debate opens up on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u268	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I'm gonna ask you a question about Salonite Anhovo. As Minister Zajc is aware, Anho's site, which was exposed for 70 years to the production of asbestos cement products, which was abolished only in 1996, is therefore one of the most endangered areas in Slovenia. Many people suffer from asbestososis, and many suffer from various chronic diseases, including cancer. What is a problem now is that Salonit Anhovo, under the new owners, has become a co-incineration plant imported from Italy and is currently expected to increase despite the health risks and environmental degradation of the incineration zone. On Ars there is a request for permission to increase the co-incineration of waste in the cement furnace by a quarter from the current 109 thousand tonnes per year to 135 thousand tonnes per year. It must be said that this means that 87 tonnes of waste will be incinerated in Salonite every day, and there are 17 types of hazardous waste among these wastes. It is said that 15 thousand 500 tons of hazardous waste is burned there every year. According to the expert opinion of Dr. Brovar, these wastes release into the air a number of hazardous substances to health and the environment, including Pm10 and Pm2.5 particles, nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide, hydrochloric and hydrochloric acid, dioxins and furans, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, heavy metals and radioactive isotopes. All of this goes up in Anhove, all of this endangers the health of the people there. According to the Method Dodič Fikfak, it is a direct violation of human rights and also of our Constitution, which in Article 72 guarantees everyone the right to a healthy living environment. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: Why is that allowed? Why does it not approach the changes on co-incineration plants and waste incineration plants in order to even the permitted values of incineration and incineration plants, as the coalition contract does? For incinerators, these values are significantly lower than for cement plants. Why does not a quarterly increase in waste incineration be frozen until the re-evaluation of the environment, which will also significantly burden the environment, including Soča, due to sewage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Indeed, Arso received an application on 29 February from Salonita Anhovo on the intentional changes in the operation of a device which may lead to pollution of a larger-scale environment, namely a cement klinker production facility in a rotary furnace and a cement production facility with a production capacity of 3 thousand 180 tonnes of cement clinker on the day on which cement production and waste treatment activities are carried out. So this is about hazardous waste with a capacity of not more than 30 tonnes or dangerous not more than 30 tonnes per hour and dangerous 8 tonnes per hour. The procedure is still in progress and has not yet been decided on this application, but the operator stated in the reports that the changes in the operation of the IED device relate to an increase in the annual quantity of non-hazardous wastes – as you yourself stated – the upgrade of the system for the acquisition, storage and dosing of energy into the main burner, which includes a change in the storage of solid fuels from non-hazardous waste in the new warehouse, then the installation of new trailers for trucks, a new dosing technique, the installation of a 2D drying room. In addition, the restoration of old silos for cements and inclusion in the IED device, the change in the above values and the change in the quantities of cooling water at the V10, V11 and V13 sources and the modernisation of the primary fragmentation of the raw material. As part of the notification of the intended change in operation of the device, ARSO must determine whether this is a type of change; whether this is a minor or greater change in the operating device and whether these changes require a new environmental impact assessment and, as a result of this proposed change, a new environmental consensus. It is true that for co-incineration and incineration there are two different regulations. We will look at these two regulations, and even if it makes sense to adapt them both, we will adapt them. However, under current legislation, including European legislation, because we have already transposed European legislation into our legislation, it is appropriate and consistent with European legislation, but we will also look at these two regulations in the coming months. But we are now at the point of first amending the Environmental Protection Act and the relevant regulation. At the time of Arso's decision on this change, however, we do not have the legal basis for banning them from doing business because they have a valid permit for the current activity and only because they want to change their scope of activity and because the process on the Arsa is ongoing, we do not have the legal basis to tell them that they must no longer carry out their activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr Minister, indeed, European legislation allows this, and Slovenian legislation permits this, in particular because of the amendment of the 2016 Environmental Protection Act implemented by the previous Government of Mira Cerar, where you and your colleague Kozlovich, who is currently running Arso, have clearly pointed out this problem, and the opposition to the opposition's work, including us, has once again supported the fact that environmental permits can be obtained permanently, irrespective of the consequences. The fact that you're saying that it's dangerous waste here; look, Salonita's leadership has written in Arso's application that it's dangerous waste, but I find it more eloquent than any other fact, namely that none of the company's management lives in Anhove. So they know what the actual situation is, as well as what Dr. Brovar has already said, that all of these toxins, are said, from sulphur dioxide, hydrochloric acid, hydrochloric acid, dioxins, furans and so on, cause a number of diseases, more frequent cancers, pulmonary diseases, reproductive problems, cardiovascular diseases and so on. If you ask the local population in Anhovem, they will tell you that practically there is no family left to face at least one of these chronic diseases. This is actually the situation in this valley. As I said before, the Dodič Fikfak method says - and I think it is justified - that this is a direct violation of human rights for these people and that it is a violation of Article 72 of the Constitution, which clearly guarantees everyone the right to a healthy living environment. That's why I want to know: How will the Ministry react to this risk, and how will Arso react? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u274	Maybe this first. Environmental protection permits are 10 years old. What you're saying isn't true. However, it has changed in this part, that 10 years since the last change in the OVD is being done. However, if there is no change in the OVD within 10 years, it will be reopened – Arso, by official duty. Therefore, for an indefinite period of time, the OVD is not valid in Slovenia. In this case, when we are talking about Anhove now, Arso will, of course, decide whether or not to obtain a new environmental permit based on opinions from the opinion of the respondents. When this process is over, I can answer more. The procedure is ongoing, and at this point I have no legislative possibility to ban Salonit from Anhove.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u276	Thank you. We do not ask this minister for the first time, we ask him about Anhove for at least the third time in this mandate, and each time we get the same answers from the Ministry of the Environment, so they will do nothing if I draw the line. I think we need to discuss Anhove in the National Assembly. As it is said, this is a place that has been exposed for 70 years to the production of cement and asbestos products. As a result, many, not only former employees, but people living in the city suffer from various chronic diseases, die significantly too young because of asbestosy, because of cancer. Now they have been given to the site of a new polluter who intends to increase waste incineration by a quarter, including as much as 15,000 tons per year of hazardous waste. The National Assembly must respond to this. In my opinion, I was in Anhove, given the health situation there and the degradation of the Anhovo environment, we should place ourselves among the degraded areas and certainly seriously discuss whether, with the production currently carried out by Salonit Anhovo, we can continue to do so without incurring a massive violation of human rights in this place. I therefore propose that we talk in the National Assembly and impose measures on the Government regarding the problem in Anhove, both with health and with the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 18 December 2019, in the framework of the votes. Jani Prednik will ask the Minister of Finance Dr. Andre Bertonclj and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u278	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Honorable Minister! Recently, as we all know, the Bank of Slovenia has tightened the credit conditions and, after these tightenings, it has become clear that 300,000 people have become completely credit incapacitated, and a similar number is one that means that the remaining 300,000 are at the border of this ability. A recent debate on the Committee on Finance has shown that consumer loans of higher amounts of long or too long duration are a source of problems. I still have a hard time imagining, as I do, and probably all my colleagues, what this has to do with people with regular income who, under the new rules, can't afford credit even a few thousand euros per two or three years. The decision of the independent regulator, the Bank of Slovenia, which is responsible for macro-credit stability, must be respected and respected. Still, this does not change the fact that more than a hundred thousand people do not have the option of hiring even the smallest loan. Of course, all those responsible said at this meeting of the Committee on Finance that certain services, such as, say, exceptional limits, were still available to these people. However, they silenced the fact and did not say that it was one of the most expensive, if not even the most expensive form of bank loans. In many countries where there is a problem of lack of access to banking services, the problem in practice is resolved in two possible ways. The first is the flow of these people to a grey and black market of loans, where they are left to mercy or, rather, to the disfavor of lenders who do not know the limit for determining interest, but do not know mercy in recovery. Another way is so-called social banking. Such services are usually developed in the form of social enterprises, cooperative banks, savings banks and loans, mutual credit-saving schemes and the like. In Slovenia, in practice such services are highly underdeveloped and are sometimes even prohibited. Under our legislation, for example, the bank must act as a share company, which prevents the establishment of cooperative banking. However, the amendments to the Social Entrepreneurship Act in the previous term no longer prevent such transactions from being carried out within the framework of social entrepreneurship. There is no development in this area. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance and I would ask that the Minister of Economy answer me in writing: What will you do as competent ministers to provide accessible credit and banking services to the population? Are you planning amendments to legislation that would allow and encourage the development of social, ethical and cooperative banking? Do you plan and what incentives to establish in Slovenia an offer of ethical and social banking and solidarity savings and lending schemes for residents who are out of the banking market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Finance, as the Ministry of Finance and Banking, is, of course, primarily responsible for the development of systemic solutions that enable the efficient and safe functioning of banks and their further development. The Ministry of Finance advocates a solid and stable banking and financial system in the Republic of Slovenia. And for financial stability, it is essential that banks establish and implement a sound and reliable management system that includes, inter alia, effective procedures for identifying, measuring or evaluating, managing and monitoring risks, as detailed by the Banking Act or European regulations. The Ministry of Finance is constantly preparing proposals for legal solutions that improve the regulation of the banking system. So much for the first part of the principle answer. Otherwise, the possible solutions that you are proposing in your question with models of social entrepreneurship, social banking, cooperative banking are realistically established through non-bank lenders of loans subject to the regulation of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and supervised by the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that regulation of the operation of banks at European level has become extremely difficult and banks cannot deviate from the principles of banking, responsible lending and loan insurance. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, you are aware that, as instructed by the Prime Minister of the Government at the Ministry of Finance, we have joined in the preparation of the Housing Credit Guarantee Act and we have already begun in the first part with presentations that have been made by young family target groups, employees for a certain period of time and on-call employees. The concept of the bill is that a 100 % guarantee will be granted for housing loans for the entire duration of the loan, that is to say a maximum of 30 years, and a maximum of 150 000 euros with 20 % of their own participation. This will improve access to credit for persons who have not been treated for bank employment, and for young and young families, starting a separate route will be easier. At the Ministry, it is estimated that this is the right step in the right direction, which will allow financially capable young families, young people in general, to reach their own home with this guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u282	Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer, and I am looking forward to the debate on the scheme that you yourself have mentioned, which will follow up on. But I would like to ask, as I mentioned earlier, that the Minister of Economy would answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Perhaps you would like to add something to the reply, Mr. Minister? No, thank you very much. Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Klampfer, but she's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u284	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear guests, ministers, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! I would like to ask Ms Ksenija Klampfer the following question, Madam Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Parents of two, from the birth of sick children who, for example, have a severe degree of cerebral paralysis and are on a wheelchair who do not want to include their child in institutional protection, are excluded from social life and their children are legally discriminated against as disabled persons. In fact, not the Personal Assistance Act or the Long-Term Care Act do not allow these families to help at home, both laws only apply to adults with disabilities. For the sake of the care of a disabled child or a youth, the father and mother are also subjected to difficult physical efforts to protect their children at home. Should these mothers, these parents, lift their children out of bed on a wheelchair until they are 18 years old and thus become disabled? Given that we are a rule of law and that gender equality laws are currently under consideration and that every day we have very topical rights, equality and co-existence of all people, it is unfair that, with all possible laws and regulations, such cases are not resolutionable and cannot be dealt with successfully because there is no legal basis. In order to increase the integration of disabled and disabled children into society and to address the disability problem, cooperation between individual government departments, ministries, public institutions and disability and other organisations dealing with the disability problem must be strengthened. I'm asking: Are you familiar with this pressing disability problem? What will you do about it for their immediate solution? I ask the Minister to answer my question in writing as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, and the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In fact, my question somehow relates to the question of fellow President. It is, however, that, with the month of November, the provisions of the Bank of Slovenia regarding the limitation of credit, consumer and housing are in force. My question relates mainly to housing lending. As we know, banks have seen a certain decline in lending. I would like to know, Mr. Secretary of Finance Dr. Bertonzel: Has the decrease in real estate prices been detected and observed during this period due to the decline in lending and, as a result, to the reduction of real estate transactions? The Minister for Environment and Space, of course, would like to ask: Is there a concrete way to show — we know that a guarantee scheme is being adopted — how a young couple with two children will get a housing loan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Who's first? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Of course, thank you for asking. In a way, I will link this question to the previous question, in the context that you raised at the outset, as Minister of Finance, although it is difficult to answer the causal link between the Bank of Slovenia's decision on macroprudential limits on crediting the population in the area of real estate. We, especially now, have not followed these trends in real estate markets in this relatively short period. However, if necessary, together with which ministry can we draw up such a reply, if you would like this information. But perhaps I would just like to point out once again what I already have to say that at the Ministry of Finance we are now preparing this Youth Guarantee Act. So young people are also the priority of this government. I think that this is an important step, a complementary step in housing policy, where young people, young families, those who are employed for a certain period of time, and who are on leave, will be able to resolve the housing issue by buying a suitable apartment. In this case, of course, the State will go against this guarantee scheme, with a 100 per cent guarantee for housing loans for the entire duration of the loan, which may last up to 30 years, amounting to EUR 150 000. I think it's an important step. This is, of course, a complementary step in housing policy in addition to the construction of a public housing fund. More than that, my friend will probably talk about it. Of course, in this work we want to make it easier for young and young families to start their own path.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Simon Zajc, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't have much to add. Of course, we need and also work closely with the finance ministry in our housing law, and one of the results of this cooperation is also this guarantee scheme. We do not yet have the articles written, but we have agreed on the priority groups. These are among young people up to 35 years of age, besides young families, those who have preschool children, including such a four - year - old family, are still on duty and are employed for a certain period of up to 40 years. But when we have these articles written to the end, I will be able to respond very exactally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u292	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The channel of St.Jerney in Seča near Portorož is part of the immovable cultural heritage of the Regional Park of Sečovlje Soline, as well as part of the Natura 2000 area. It is therefore an extremely sensitive area, which will be at least 30 years in reality the source of many problems, and in particular I think it is a sort of ecological and environmental disaster, as well as a kind of example of red tape and the transfer of responsibility between different institutions that have not carried out their obligations for a number of years. This was also confirmed by the Court of Auditors in its audit of 2017, when it clearly gave a negative opinion to both state and municipal authorities. In short, it is one of the biggest environmental problems in the Municipality of Piran and as such undoubtedly sheds a bad light on the exceptional landscape value of Sečovlje salt. By assuming your mandate, you have assured the Minister-General that this environmental disaster will also be resolved during the course of your term of office. So in April this year, as part of the field tour of Jerne's channel, in a press statement, I quote: "For Jerne's channel we have two scenarios. The first is for the congregation to take care of his arrangement. We agreed to prepare a financial design for the project within six months and to apply for a water permit. If it fails, the canal will be taken care of by the Ministry, which means that we will empty the canal, there will be no more vessels in it, and there will be no need to deepen it. It is my wish to end the story of this channel in this mandate." Unfortunately, the situation in Jerne’s channel has not improved significantly; on the contrary, the piers continue to be black, the boats continue to bind, so that every day there are even new connections. In short, the situation is absolutely unsustainable and shameful, especially because it is such a sensitive and protected area. Not to mention the despondency of the country’s country girls and countrymen, for example, who have been practically cut off from the world in recent floods. They need and seek a solution. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Are you aware that the Municipality of Piran has prepared any financial structure or request a water permit at this time? Has she even begun any activity with regard to the rescue of Jerne’s channel? At this time, were any activities carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Space with a view to solving the problems of the canal? How will you approach solving the problem of new black construction of dams, new attachments, the entry of new vessels, which are absolutely illegal in the Jerney Canal? Do you feel that emptying the channel is an increasingly realistic solution to this problem? If that's the case, then I'd like to know: What is the indicative time frame for solving the problem in question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u294	Like I said months ago on a field visit, I still think the same thing. It would be proper for Jerne’s channel to take over and regulate the congregation. But obviously it won't be because they haven't applied for a water permit yet, which means someone else is going to have to do it, as it all seems, the country. But it doesn't have to be. But in any case, even if our ministry takes over, we will need the congregation’s cooperation. Thus, after a new year, a meeting with the congregation is scheduled because we need it in two parts. In fact, the municipality will still have to amend the Port Decree, without which we can do nothing, and the spatial act, since Aja in the meantime we have made yet another thought whether it makes sense to take all the vessels out now or whether it makes sense to have it still as a local port. [[…]] My opinion after all these discussions is that it makes more sense to still have this as a local port, because once we take the boats out, then it will be over. I don't want to come to this, but maybe I do. So, there's a meeting with the municipality to agree on a change of decree and a spatial act. Then let's move on. With regard to current actions, i.e. the construction of new links, an inspection is already under way. The application was filed and the procedure is ongoing and in the meantime two other vessels have been removed by the Directorate-General. So we look forward to further our activities after I hope that, with the congregation, we will be able to discuss how these two acts will be amended together. I hope not. We'll take care of this by the end of the term.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u296	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I must also say that I regret that my congregation has not responded and has not prepared an appropriate action plan, because if you commit yourself to doing something in six months, it would be right for you to do so. But I do believe that with your collective strength, you will succeed and move things forward. I also welcome your re-examination of the links themselves in the channel in question, because this channel has traditionally meant an accessible path for the locals and by eliminating everything, but it would still cause quite a bit of a nuisance between the locals and the locals. This is how I think and I appeal that at least local connections are allowed, I know that this will probably be a little difficult because of the financial structure itself, then the performance, but it may still be necessary to take the tradition of this place into account here. So I can only say that I really welcome your optimistic goals, and I also hope and believe that this will be resolved in the course of your term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u298	Thank you, yes. I'll be with you in a minute. I think it's going to happen to me in another case that at first glance, I think there's going to be a solution that makes more sense to me than the other one, and then when you get deeper into the matter, you see that maybe there's another way that makes more sense. It seems to me that this is also the right way of doing things, because in that first review of the situation you do not have all the data, you do not know exactly what such a solution could really mean, so this thought was made. I think it'll make more sense to leave these attachments there for the local population. However, it will also be necessary to find a way to do so, then this new Jerne channel, with these attachments, can also be renewed, self-financing, which means that a fee will have to be collected. Who, in a way, is what we still have to work out, so that it really works out for the next 30 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! We are committed to building the northern part of the fast road between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec as soon as possible without any corruption. When we were talking about the Ugresin field of the lignitotop of Velenje, which is at the edge of which it is carried out and is even cross the route of the north section of the third development axis between Velenje south and Slovenj Gradec, I am interested: Was an appropriate mining laboratory made, which is a mandatory component when we approach the field of the grapevine, not only when crossing this field, but what is now happening, as in the case of the proposed section? Please, if I can get an overview of this documentation, i.e. the mining laboratory, and the opinion or recommendations. The question is: At what level was the feasibility of the road project and facilities on Velenje south–Slovenian Gradec in the comparison phase of the variants carried out in 2008 found? To what extent have reservations and uncertainties been taken into account when assessing the variants in 2008 at the time of comparison and the choice of the variant of the fast road? Was a geomechanical and hydrological report produced to compare variants and to assess environmental impacts, and to what extent did geological drilling take place? When did Dars take over this report? Is it not possible to expect additional surprises from the final and reliable geomechanical and hydrological report as a basis for the preparation of the investment programme and for the assessment of the investment value? How is it possible to justify the recently revealed surprise we have seen in the media, across Slovenia, that part of the project, this is a dig of a future fast road over the U.S. field in Velenje through the mining area, is virtually impossible due to the non-bearing of the soil in the mining area? What else can then happen in other parts where the fast road crosses the hilly field? Does the State Spatial Plan include accommodation in the space also for a deposit of 3 million tonnes of surplus material envisaged for the construction of this facility on this part? Where exactly is the location of this dump? So much space will cover many hectares. If there's a 5 meter dump, you'd need 600 hectares for that dump. Has a re-comparison of the options been made when disclosure is made that the current investment value is significantly higher than the investment estimate compared to the variants? Is there any documentation on this re-comparison? When was it made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u302	Thank you so much for saying that. Since the Minister isn't here, I'm going to give my part of the answer. It is possible, however, to begin with that the mining laboratory does not belong in the documentation under spatial or construction legislation, but belongs in the area of mining under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure. However, I would like to provide some basic information on the placement in the premises and permission of the road in question. In 2013 the Government adopted a regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the section of the state road from Velenje to Slovenj Gradec. As part of the preparation of professional bases for the direction of the rapid road to the space, a number of professional bases were developed, including the idea project of the route of roads and objects on it, as well as geological-geotechnical laboratories on the composition of the ground and the method of construction of the route and the foundation of the buildings on the rapid road route. The contracting authority of all the professional bases and the State Spatial Plan itself was Dars and the Ministry of Environment and Space led the preparation process. The Ministry of Environment and Space is also the authority to issue a building permit for the department in question after receiving the role of investor, that is, Darsa. So far, the Ministry of Environment and Space has only received the investor's role for a shorter section of the Gaberka connection route. The request for a building permit shall be accompanied by a design documentation for obtaining opinions and building permit, which shall be drawn up in accordance with the Regulation on the more detailed content of the documentation and the forms relating to the construction of the buildings. The Regulation does not provide for the production of specific laboratories prior to the production of documentation for the acquisition of a building permit. The specific laboratories shall be ordered by the investor to the experts on individual content areas prior to production or in the context of the design of the project for execution. An investor must have a project before he starts just building. The mining laboratories are not labs whose production would be prescribed and required by the Construction Law, but, as I have already said, this is an area governed by mining regulations. That's what we got from the MOP.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Member, do you have a word to complete the answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u304	Mr. Secretary, thank you for this answer. In view of the fact that it is a line of route from Velenje south to Slovenj Gradc, and it has now been found that part of the digging of the fast road simply cannot be carried out because of the rolling ground, because the current or abandoned mine shafts are below, the fact that the line of this road will drag away from the section of Gaberka towards Slovenia Gradc, where you said that the work should begin first. Because of the credibility of this data, how this route could have been confirmed here along such a line, I am asked a question, Mr. Secretary-General: How does your ministry monitor the correctness of the data obtained on the feasibility of the project and its investment value compared to the variants and prepare an investment programme for projects financed from public finances? Indeed, the fact is that, as is now thought to be a viadukt instead of a dig – otherwise I do not know where the foundations of this viadukt will be laid, given that the battlefield in Velenje mine is, I don't know, between 400 and 500 meters deep, the fact that this variant of the fast road will be very high. Significantly higher than anticipated in the variant study.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u306	I can then provide you with precise measures regarding the procedure itself, but for all the accommodations we take to the premises, we take them in the same procedure. But for this particular case, as I've already said. With regard to the performances themselves, the investor must order an elaborate as to how a particular construction will then be carried out as part of the execution project before starting construction. Because if he doesn't know, he won't be able to start building. As with other projects, this is the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u308	Thank you very much. I am still saying that we are doing all of this in the sense that, as soon as possible, the real conditions are ensured that the fast road from Velenje to Koroška can actually start building. But the fact is that the road is now being planned in the U.S. field, where construction is increasingly questionable. Following the answers I have just received – I do not know how Mrs Alenka Bratušek will complement me in my future work – I propose that the debate on this item be held at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 18 December 2019, in the framework of the votes. Violeta Tomic will ask questions to the Minister of the Interior, Boštjan Poklukar, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u310	Thank you. In recent years, we have already achieved the first movement in the field of cannabis regulation in the framework of legislative changes in Levica, allowing for the use of cannabis in industrial and nutritional uses, and finally for medical purposes. Unfortunately, however, the competent ministries are extremely passive in adapting legislation to these changes, resulting in further discrimination and violation of the human rights of cannabis users and their products. One such pressing problem is also indicated in the field of road safety, where the use of so-called testers to check the presence of psychoactive substances in drivers is particularly problematic. Although we do not support driving under the influence of psychoactive substances in Levica, which reduce the driver’s ability to drive, unfortunately the practice of using these devices to determine the presence of psychoactive substances has shown the reliability of testers. However, the consequences of unreliable results are reflected in unjustified withdrawals of driving licences, financial fines, deepening of social pressures, loss of services — including those of cannabis users who were aware of the non-psychoactive content of cannabinoids at the time of driving; therefore, for drivers with no reduced ability to drive. Finally, there are unnecessary costs for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. These suspicions are confirmed by a number of opinions of the Institute of Forensic Medicine in court proceedings against individuals. Following a positive rapid test with the said device in road traffic, the presence of non-psychoactive cannabis metabolites is shown many times in further laboratory fluid removals if this occurs. This uncertainty of these devices has also been duly pointed out by individual police stations which have proposed certain procedural changes to the competent authorities, as testers present a problem in their procedures. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What signs of psychoactive substances contained in the hemp plant are used by the police in the process of checking the psychophysical abilities of road users? Which companies are the suppliers of these saws? Have you been informed by suppliers of detection devices of these substances which cannabinoids detect these devices? Are you aware of the uncertainty of these devices as to how you acted? How many such devices were purchased for police purposes from 2014 to 2019 and for which suppliers? How much of the State budget was earmarked for this purchase? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Kseniya Klampfer, who has been absent since 6 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u312	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister in absentia! The food preparation services and the entire team of employees in the kitchen of the House of Older Citizens Predvor are expected to be taken over by the external contractor from 2020. This was the decision of the Director of the Institute, Mate Križanič, which took place in June this year. Home is a public welfare institution, the founder and owner of which is the Republic of Slovenia, and is supervised by the Ministry of Labour. Given that this government has committed itself to improving working conditions and the so-called induction of workers, it is totally unacceptable to break down working groups and transfer workers to external private operators in this way. The practice has shown, both at the Ministry of Public Administration, at the Ministry of Education and in public institutions, that there are no savings. There are only worse working conditions and there are even more infringements of labour rights, there are breakdowns of working collectives and there are worse services for users. The selected bidder of Sodexo is expected to take over the workers for a year. What happens to them then, nobody knows. Among the workers to be transferred to the external contractor are mothers on maternity leave. Caring for quality food, especially in nursing homes where both health and dietary needs of caregivers and caregivers are specific, is important and is not simple. Therefore, it will be a direct look at the fact that this spring the House of Older Citizens gave, for example, a month of time for less-rated public procurement of food for the award of tenders, and this time only ten. Ten days of pussy. For significantly more demanding, significantly more complex public procurement than the above, the subject of which is the provision of five health-friendly daily meals, and the transfer of 12 employees to the external operator. The total amount of all payments to this contractor will be €793,000 in 2020. On average, therefore, 9.3 euros for five daily meals per provider and provider. 9.3 euros for five meals! I'm asking the secretary: What kind of meal is 1.86 euros worth? How does the Ministry control the quality of food in the homes of older citizens? What effect does the Ministry have on the business decisions of the institution? Can the Ministry of Outsourcing in these institutions be prevented, or why do you not prevent these harmful processes, which mean partial privatisation of public institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you very much. And last but not least, Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u314	Your Honor, thank you for your word. We're the last of Mr. Rabbit's ministers again. After Hungary has closed the border for imports of municipal mud, we know that there will be a problem in Slovenia, as the operators of cleaning plants in Slovenia point out that they no longer have the option to deposit or deposit this municipal mud within two months, or that they will run out of room to deposit this municipal mud. This is also a global problem, this communal mud, because it was produced or is a product with these cleaning facilities, which are already connected to almost all or a growing part of households in Europe or Slovenia. In the past, between 50% and 80%, depending on the data, are expected to export this mud abroad. Many times there are proposals or a lot of experts saying that one option is also incineration or co-incineration, and I do not agree with this, or experts point out that there are other, better, alternative sustainable and more sustainable uses of it, are said to be communal mud. This is in the area of agriculture to remove these heavy metals from this communal mud and pathogens, then it is also used in construction, is an option as well as a raw material for the extraction of certain elements, such as phosphorus. He's interested in the following. I'm interested in the information: What are the quantities of municipal mud produced in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for past years and projections for the future? What are the uses, incineration, co-incineration and alternative uses of this municipal mud for individual uses? What are the storage capacities of municipal mud? How many of these capacities are filled and will they withstand the production of mud under the assumption that exports will stop completely? The disposal of municipal mud on landfills has been prohibited since 2009 and it has also been prohibited since 2013 to use organic unprocessed mud to prepare artificial soil to cover areas in the degraded environment, such as the rehabilitation of abandoned quarryes. Since communal mud is also a raw material, not only in terms of thermal combustion and co-incineration and because we know that in Japan 80% use this municipal mud for construction purposes, I am interested in: How much municipal mud is used in this context also for us or how many companies in Slovenia were interested in this type of municipal mud use for construction or construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u316	Thank you. Last time we didn't have a question, I almost missed it. I have today. But I'd like to ask you if we can send these exact data after the tone. There's a lot of complicated data, because it's a dry matter or a wet substance, and we're going to send you everything we need. At this point we have a very pressing and big problem and we will have difficult to introduce alternative forms, or any form will be difficult to introduce at this time. It is said that any form of treatment of mud from municipal cleaning facilities is due to the fact that we do not have a system set up at home for virtually nothing. We do very little thermal treatment, we compose very little, we also have a problem because we have mixed utility cleaning devices, which means that there are also outflows from industry coming to these same cleaning plants and there are many things in there. Which means that the disposal of mud on agricultural surfaces is immediately eliminated, which would also be an option, but given what we have in these muds, we cannot do that. At this point, we are doing some things so that after the new year, this problem will start to get worse. But he began suddenly; he began by choosing to close the border in Hungary. At that time we were faced with the fact that we do not know what to do with it now, because so far it was a simple market activity, now that it is no longer possible to export, of course it is my problem, the burden of the country, what we will do with it. The Ministry went straight to the action, immediately to Hungary to a fellow minister. It was my desire to arrange for a transitional period of the year and a half to two years to build our own infrastructure at home, so that we could dry this mud or otherwise process it. All possible options in relation to the operational waste management programme are, of course, open, but this cannot be set within a few months. The answer was, in principle, negative, and we are waiting for the official rejection of these requests for exports. There is still some hope, but we are also looking into other European countries if any country that still has the capacity to deal with mud would be willing to do so and, of course, at some price. This will eventually be known on each and every one of us. In addition, we are really preparing or verifying some extreme measures if they can be implemented, but we hope that this will not happen; so that we can still find a solution in Slovenia for this transitional period. Then it will be necessary to agree with operators and operators of public cleaning plants on how we will deal with this mud as sustainablely as possible. We're also talking about phosphorus here. Phosphorus is also in line with Europe’s strategy – it will have to be extracted from mud or possibly from ashes, because it is lacking in general. The country that will be most successful at this will also be in favour, the economic advantage as far as this is concerned. But now, this moment is my biggest problem and our biggest problem is this short period after the new year and then after that second blow, from spring onwards, how with this mud, the cleaning machines can function smoothly. We know what the alternative is if we don't get the most part of the mud. [[…]] Which means we'll be back 20 years when we didn't clean. We know what this will mean for our watercourses. This is not what we want to come to, so now all of our current activities are focused on the fact that this emergency, which occurred to us in the fall because of the decision made on the basis of local elections and internal political accusations that Hungary is Europe's watermelon, was then taken this decision and, consequently, because we preferred to export because it was cheaper, abroad, but now we have a problem that we do not have a system set up at home. This is how we go to this emergency room first, but we agreed at our last meeting with the stakeholders that we will also go together in how we will put on the most effective and sustainable mud management system in Slovenia. As for other wastes, I am convinced and I believe that although they will be more expensive in the short term or in a certain period of time, it will be cheaper to take waste out of the country urgently, it is wise to set up a functioning system at home, that we are not dependent on waste management from abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u318	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In the agricultural regulation itself, other rules apply to the processing of municipal mud. For example, the Regulation on the Treatment and Use of Non-Hazardous Waste into Solid Fuel, then the Regulation on Waste Incineration and Co-incineration Equipment, the Waste Disposal Regulation. However, I would like to draw attention to this programme under the Waste Management Programme, which was adopted in 2016 — this is the programme — and as foreseen in measure 31, this regime of treatment of sludge treatment plants is also recorded. In fact, it is written this way, this waste management programme, integrated; it is said that there is a holistic variant of the problem itself in one place. It's about municipal waste and municipal mud. And here's what I want to know: How far is the ministry by drawing up regulations in the field of municipal mud because it is just a proposal or a waste management programme? What are the short-term alternatives, maybe you're planning some additional storage deposits until alternative, green and sustainable use is launched in full? Will there also be any relief in this regard? And also: Does the Ministry intend to help companies that would opt for alternative and green use of municipal mud in any way with facilitation or direct investment, as I have already said? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u320	Thank you. I mean, we already have the rules pretty well written, you know. Also for use, the problem forward is that you can put the rules well in order, you can accept them, but if they are not followed by the terrain and the terrain did not follow because no operator of any other alternative mud management options was economically sustainable because it was so much cheaper to take out. [[…]] Even in Celje, they were vehicles, although they could have their own incinerator, but it was cheaper to drive out than to process it thermally — if my data were correct. That's the problem. It is not such a problem that we do not have regulations laid down, that we do not have written regulations, regulations in force, but the problem was that it was cheaper to take them out. Therefore, in the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, we also introduce security guards so that they will not be exported, but if we have processors in our possession, we will have to give this to us. I know it may be more expensive for a short period of time then, but in the long term, once again, we need to put up our system and then maintain it, but not the moment that an alternative abroad appears cheaper, we turn our backs on our own system and then fall. That's how it goes in the law. Then of course it'll be a while to stand up. We've been counting mud for about a year and a half to two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u322	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Since it is also, I think, the essence of this national assembly that we are in assistance is true to the Minister and the Ministry, in this case I propose that we hold a broader debate on this subject, which is also possible by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would also point to the fact that I am also delighted that Minister Zajc of Madrid at the climate conference has shown a very upright attitude towards the Paris Agreement, which, unfortunately, will not yet be implemented. I also monitored your posts on Facebook and it was very nice to see that what I see the potential in Slovenia as myself – because I know that we have a lot of experts in this area, as well as the possibilities that we could implement in this area – so that we could be the leading or model example for the whole of Europe, as well as the world, in the sense of this Green Deal, which has been talked about so much lately. Even from the last Wednesday forward, when we also got to the table of the Green Deal fence, the European Green Agreement, and I want Slovenia to reach out more specifically in the sense of this and also, I will not say, I will not offer myself, but you have also taken the right and duty to be the first and that we are the ones who can also lead in this area, even when it comes to a European Green Agreement. Because when I read this Green Deal, you have quite a feeling that it's set in the right direction, but there's going to be a lot of things that need to be done and written and prepared. However, I am afraid that it would not have been possible for the Green Deal to become just one simple business, so there have been a lot of deals already in Europe, but I would like to warn – as young people also very well warn us and in fact are our true consciences, even many times before parliament, and a nice greeting to everyone outside, only when they are there on Fridays or the rest of the days, that in fact the Earth's time actually does not show 5-12, but it already shows exactly 12.00. In fact, I am very pleased that you have shown a upright attitude in Madrid, and I hope that Slovenia will also move forward in this direction and that we will indeed become some causal example of the implementation of this European Green Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 18 December 2019, in the framework of the votes. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 18 December 2019, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
