ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Trček, Violeta Tomić, Iva Dimic, Franc Kramar, Jelka Godec, Mojca Žnidarič from 11 a.m. to 13 p.m., Felice Žiža between 12 a.m. and 14 p.m., Ferenc Horváth between 12 a.m. and 14 p.m., Victory Jelinčič Nobility from 11.30 p.m., Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovac from 12 a.m. to 15 p.m., Luka Mesec from 12 a.m. to 15 p.m., mag. Carmen Furman, and I'll be gone by myself from 12:00 to 2:00. Dear, dear, once again a lovely greeting! We're moving to 17. INDUSTRY OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE POLITICAL RESPONSIBLE RESPONSES OF THE CARRIAGE OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS TO BE PARTICULAR TO THE PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLITICAL AND PENSION OF THE PERIOD OF THE COURT OF LAST MARIBOR AND MEMBER OF THE GOVERNMENTAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE AND OTHERS, On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State submitted a request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Marjan Mauchec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! As you probably already have information, the State Council is 12. 6. gave an initiative under Article 97 of the Constitution and Article 93 of the Constitution to initiate a parliamentary investigation into the case of Franc Kangler and the others. There has been no doubt about the abuse of public functions and, above all, there has been an abuse of the State's authority for political accounting with individuals. In only one completed process, there have been serious violations of human rights, fundamental freedoms and more violations of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, existing legislation, and in particular provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Infringements have also occurred in the enforcement of records led by the police under Article 123 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, as also found by the information officer in the inspection and is also in the annual report you received. The Council of State on the matter of the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry proposes that the Commission of Inquiry identify, inter alia, the potential political responsibility of the holders of a public function to participate in the preparation and execution of political, criminal proceedings against France Kangler and others due to suspicions of abuse of official office or public office. The political responsibility of former and current holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the holders of official positions in other State bodies or bodies such as the police, inspection services and so on should be determined. It should be determined how they deal with covert investigative measures at the Police and the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor and who and in what way is responsible within the system for the legality of procedures and the preservation of hidden investigative measures. The situation in the area of police records management should be explored and proposals made for a recommendation on possible revision of the sectoral legislation, and it should also identify the possible responsibility of former, current holders of public functions responsible for monitoring and carrying out the duties and powers of the Police. The Council of State proposes that the investigation should cover the completion of the trial against France Kangler in the case of Joževit, because, on the basis of the serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, France Kangler was sentenced to seven months in prison, in particular as a result of violations of criminal, procedural and material law, resulting in the loss of the mandate of a member of the Council of State in 2014. In the framework of the parliamentary investigation, backgrounds and links should be established between the judge of the Maribor District Court and the then state prosecutor of the Maribor District Attorney's Office and its then leader, because the case is linked. They found that there was a link between the members of the Supreme Court of Justice in Maribor who had confirmed the punishment of France Kangler and the judges of the Maribor District Court. The investigation should cover alleged irregularities in the enforcement of police records and cases of abandonment of the duty of public function holders, which have introduced and led to irregularities in human rights violations since 2014, enabling the law to continue. Our request is clearly defined as a matter of public interest, but above all it is a matter of identifying and investigating the actual situation in the field of justice, as there has been serious human rights and freedoms violations in the French Kangler and others, and none of the competent have reacted in accordance with the legislation if they have been notified. It is therefore necessary to investigate the actual situation in this area, as it is unacceptable for the prosecution and the police to abuse themselves for political accounts. The findings and the actual situation brought by the Commission of Inquiry will be the basis and basis for legal and political decisions. As regards data collection, in the public, in the National Assembly and for some time in the State Council, the problem was that certain data were classified and should not be made public and, on the other hand, that there was a lack of public interest. You also received material where the Commissioner said she had no reservations. KNOVS said the same thing, including GRECO, also your legal services and the State Council find that it has all the elements that can be introduced, and we have also done so. On the other hand, the State Council deliberately stated that the Commission of Inquiry was to be established in the Franc Kangler and Others case. There are, of course, quite a few cases in Slovenia where the abuses of law enforcement authorities have taken place directly, leaving it to the members of the commission to extend the parliamentary commission after hearing witnesses to other cases which suggest the possibility that Slovenian policy was interfering with the functioning of the legal service and the police and all these bodies concerned with the independence and fairness of the trial. In particular, I would like to point out that in the case of Franc Kangler and others, there is no open procedure, which has also occurred in the public domain. Cases are closed in 21 criminal proceedings. One legal procedure was of a financial nature in his favour. It is unacceptable for a person against whom various measures have been taken to deal with more than seven years of serious human rights and freedoms violations, as the former Constitutional Judge, Dr Cyril Ribičič, has clearly found on 11 pages, a politician, a man who is familiar with the law and probably does not have to be very clear that he is not a personal friend of Franz Kangler to write for his benefit. It is said that there are quite a few circumstances that have led to the decision of the Council of State to adopt this initiative, which allows you to draw a political conclusion. Even those cases that were repeatedly in public to interfere with the prosecution, the judiciary, do not hold. It's a different matter. We live in a parliamentary democracy where you, the National Assembly, are the highest political body, the only one directly elected. Then we have the executive power that goes through you. We have a judicial authority that's unfortunately lifeless and does what it does. We have a so-called public, a fourth branch of power that's supposed to be independent but you know what the trick is? [[…]] This commission of inquiry is a historic act to restore your authority. Because, believe me, you don't have one. There's more where that came from. But you should have it, because you are the representatives of the people, you have been elected in whatever way. Others rule. Do you know who rules? Those who have power over an independent judiciary are ruled by independent public opinion, by the media. Therefore, it is good to investigate this, for in this way you will regain your reputation and you will begin to rule again. Because you must be the first. Now it is reversed – the first is the independent public, the media, then it is the judiciary, then it is the government, which through such and different matters is the government. And you are what? Off-duty culprits. She used to swear you were a farmer. Now it's not a swear word. Now it's swear you're a politician. So do, honestly make this investigator and you will get the place that belongs to you — the first place in the country, because you have been authorized by the people to rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you for the presentation! With this, honourable Members and Members are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Victory Jelinčič noble, you have the first word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much! This parliamentary inquiry will in fact be a turning point in the Slovenian political space. It is the fact that a man who was a saint and a Member has begun processing in over twenty procedures where it has been shown that none of these procedures have been sustained. They were all rejected or carried out for the benefit of this defendant, Mr. Kangler. It was political structures that are increasingly common in Slovenia. We can expect this to continue with the increased crisis, with an increased fear of losing power, although in fact it has been happening since 1992. In fact, the judicial branch of power is a structured branch of power, because the judicial branch of power is not in the hands of law and law, but is in the hands of a governing structure that sets many times by command from behind what is right and what is wrong. The matter is not as simple as anyone would say, so we have repeatedly demanded in our client that the matter be regulated in such a way that judges and prosecutors are deprived of a permanent mandate and that judges and prosecutors must be criminally and financially responsible for their actions, for their mistakes. This is the case with the German sample. I think that in Germany the law is substantially more applicable and is significantly more precise than we are. This is based on our last names, not on what someone did, but on how someone writes. After all, if we look – is anyone responsible for that billion euro of smuggled money abroad likely for terrorist actions? Yesterday we passed a law whereby every ordinary Slovenian will be written down for everything he carries across the border. If he sees anything wrong, if he says anything wrong, they'll mark him and give him the stamps, they'll expect him, and they'll have secret investigations, and I don't know what. But that billion went by. If we compare what Kangler has done, which has done nothing, and has been processed for so long, while on the other hand someone who has not been processed and helped bring one billion across the Slovenian bank abroad, that's all right. After all, hundreds and hundreds of millions of people in Slovenia are disappearing in unknown places, and no one is missing because the names of those people are real because those surnames are ours, as the gentlemen of the ruling structures say — those in the foreground and those in the background. Human rights have been violated many times. The end of human rights was also violated when they came to work in Parliament with Mrs Bratuškov. But then the Slovenian political structure rose up here in Parliament. But I have to say, when they came with a weapon to investigate the SNS Group, to me, then both the left and the right laughed and said, "fine, they will wipe it out and shake it out" and so on. But one wonders what the real thing is, what about human rights, what about breaking laws, what about everything else, what about our face of Slovenia in a world that we no longer actually have. In the world, we are considered to be the world's largest losers and as slaves, with whom to rub and which can be bought for one sprayer, if I do a little caricature. Probably the best thing for a Croatian syringe the waiter's ever spittin' in before. We have brought our country so far. In fact, we don't have a country anymore, we only have a country. And we fought for our country. Most of them didn't fight. At this end, I don't even know if there's anyone. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I don't know, I want to see [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] You want to see I know there are 75,000 veterans today. [[…]] At the time, those of us who pressed the trigger were about 40. And I know what it was like back then. I pressed the trigger, so you know. And as it turns out, I've turned the AK in the wrong direction. Perhaps it would be healthier for a matter to fall back then, and today we would have a country that we lost, that we sold, that we destroyed, and that we are still destroying forever. I speak in multitude and also consider myself to be one reason, because the Slovenian National Party does not have enough votes to move a matter. But we can warn and warn, despite the fact that we can expect processes like those against Kangler. They were already against our client, mostly against me, in order to destroy everything and they failed. I wouldn't want him to come again. I wouldn't want to. He wouldn't want it because of me, and he wouldn't want it because of those who would. Sometimes when he's a little older, he looks at everything. And maybe there's some sort of thing going to wake up in him that you pushed back. We're going to the state to ban hate speech. This is the worst thing – hate speech. Open thinking about telling someone in the face what you think is forbidden. But quietly following him, stalking him, preparing trials against him, setting things up for him, going to his apartment, the secret investigations that are happening today by the police. It is interesting that the Intelligence Service for the Prevention of Terrorist Acts does not have these powers, and the police have these powers today. Given the way people take matters into their own hands, we can think about how this is happening. This has been the case with Kangler, so this parliamentary investigation is so much more important. It's going to open up, and there's going to be a lot of exposure. And it is likely that many things will be prevented or prevented. Maybe not all of them, but if not all of them, they'll be judges and prosecutors will be a little more careful, and maybe they'll read the laws a little bit more. There is one complete laugh in the law and so on in Slovenia. None of those who should do so respect the laws and do not read them. No, no, no. They explain them. You can explain the Koran, you can explain the Bible, you can't explain the law. The law must be written in a clear and exact manner and the law must be read and respected and respected. We have not yet taken this chapter in Slovenia. I don't know if we ever will. Maybe 15 or 20 years from now, if Slovenia still exists. The promises are not the best, but one small stone to settle this matter once and for all, but this is a parliamentary investigation. The case is specifically addressed to Mr. Frank Kangler, but we're not just going to talk about Frank Kangler here. We'll talk about the corruption of the judiciary, the prosecution, the investigating authorities, the police, and I don't know who else. I hope that the result of this investigation will show all the crap in this area in Slovenia and that it will also be the first step that will start removing this mess.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mag. Dejan Kaloh, you have the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u6	President, thank you for your announcement. Dear fellow Members, distinguished Minister of State, Mr Mauchec, welcome! As we have heard, the Council of State, as a qualified candidate on 12 June, requested the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry – I will now state in its entirety what it is called – to establish the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions to participate in the preparation and execution of political and criminal prosecutions against the former Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and a member of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, Franco Kangler and others, because of the suspicion that the proceedings against the former Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and the member of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, Franco Kangler and other severely violated and inadmissible provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Criminal Code and the Law on the State Council, and the finding of alleged illegal administration and the management of certain police records. As a result of the request for a parliamentary inquiry, the case of France Kangler is only the tip of the iceberg. Below this, a number of other cases suggest that individuals have been violated human rights and fundamental freedoms in pre-trial, prosecution and judicial proceedings by public authorities. Let me mention only the public-known abuses of public functions in the case of Patria, in the case of Magajna, which is otherwise the subject of a request for a parliamentary inquiry, indeed does not explicitly mention. In some ways, this may be a flaw in the dictates of the demand itself, as the Law-Legal Service has also identified, but as has already been said by the State Councillor, Mr Maucec, after hearing the witnesses, the parliamentary investigation can still be extended to other cases, which will show that the policy was the one that interfered with the judiciary. However, the request presents the Ornik case, where police apparently misused police powers on purpose. On purpose. Even more. It has forced illegal intrusions into the private communication of citizens, which is indeed frightening, unacceptable, it is said that it was a direct patronage of some state authority, in this case the Police, which allowed for the actual execution of these crimes. In fact, the case of Franc Kangler is particularly out of the line of police and prosecution. As we have seen at the outset, it has been ardent at the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the Constitution, the Criminal Procedure Act. Very short summary of the condition. In 2014, Franc Kangler, as it later turned out, was convicted in the Regional Court of Maribor because he proposed only a proposal to the municipal council in the exercise of his mayoral office. He was sentenced to seven months in prison and, as a result, in 2004 he was in the neighbouring area, according to the State Council, a mandate was to be withdrawn, which should be understood as a direct attack on political office by the state councilors of the left political province. On 17 July 2014, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia annulled this judgment of the Supreme Court, which confirmed the first instance judgment and found that Franc Kangler had been wrongly convicted of an act which was not a crime at all. In this place, let me mention this similarity with the case of Patria, where it was also a non-existent crime with that famous dictatorship: in an undetermined place, in an undetermined manner, at an undetermined time. This similarity is also very agreeable, and it is also very frightening for cities. Let me point out that, in the case of France Kangler and in the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry, there is not going to be any open procedure for any deception here today. At present, 21 criminal proceedings have been completed and one judicial procedure, I am talking about a financial investigation, all in his favor. One of the key issues that is now strictly legitimate in this place is whether, in the case of Franz Kangler in the prosecutions, in the court, the power of the former repressive authorities is still present, in particular, I think of the Judgment, which ordered whom to be persecuted, and who should be particularly persecuted and tried in court in a particularly persistent or even illegal manner. In the Franc Kangler case, there are about three judges who signed various measures in the Maribor District Court under the Criminal Procedure Act. It is interesting, however, that all three judges have been dealt with by an ethical commission before the Council of Justice this year and, believe it or not, all three have violated the principle of impartiality, the incompatibilities of their judicial function, as they have appeared at meetings of political parties, one of the judges has attended an acquittal party at the SMC headquarters of the current mayor of Maribor, and two other judges have even participated visibly and with satisfaction in the presentation of European candidates to the SD Party of the European Parliament. It is not the first time that the Council of State requires the determination of such an investigation. Let me remind you of the 2005 investigator led by Mr Dimitrij Kovačič, at the time the parliamentary investigation focused on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the exercise of supervision under the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office for amending legislation and other decisions. I think that the investigator – I was reading a bit of a magnetogram and then the final report – was still kind of good for the state of the spirit in the prosecution, because the prosecutors felt, at least, if they had not already come to a legal conclusion by then, that it was not only the blue sky and some former party February, but also, in particular, the laws and the constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Now, listen! The final report of the 2008 so-called Kovacic Investigator stressed that the role of the Public Prosecutor in the period 1945-1990 was highly political, political and dependent on it. The Public Prosecutor was a social political worker, as stipulated by the legislation, and this was still being implemented in practice. The structure of the Prosecutor's Office, laid down in a highly partyed manner, according to the ZK line, existed also at the end of the 1980s, virtually until Slovenia's independence. This historical view of the prosecution in Slovenia was needed due to an easier understanding of the situation, when, after the independence of Slovenia, the prosecution was primarily filled with the political staff of the old party regime and trained primarily and solely to prosecute the crimes pursued by the regime, difficult or even committed a break with the previous prosecutorial mentality, and this, of course, is felt in cities and in certain cases today. What, though, is the situation in the area of the State’s Attorney’s Office decades later? A while ago, we discussed the annual report for 2018 on the state of the Slovenian State Prosecutors' Office. The professional errors of prosecutors are increasing by 50% compared to 2017. However, there is one correlational question on this point why these wrong decisions of prosecutors are not sanctioned and how to determine whether they were a professional error or possibly a deliberate error, which already falls within the domain of abuse of the prosecutor's office. The exercise of control over the performance of the State Prosecutor's Office is still very weak. The prosecutor's decision on whether to pursue a case further or to dismiss the complaint still lacks any appropriate verification of his leader or the Attorney General's case. This is particularly the case with regard to the expulsion of criminal charges. If the findings of the report of this Commission of Inquiry give rise to a basis for amending the legislation in the field of the Public Prosecutor's Act to ensure that the decisions of individual prosecutors in the event of criminal charges being dropped are subject to review and that the co-signatory of the Prosecutor's Office or even a group of prosecutors in any serious crime, that purpose will be more than justifiable. Similarly, any amendments to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, especially in the area of the management and management of certain police records and any amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which I have referred to several times, are particularly in the area of the protection of personal data, because it is data where the police are selected in the pre-trial procedure and can be manipulated, abused and so on. Also, the Law on Judicial Service, I mentioned earlier three judges who define the supervision of judges and the disciplinary procedure itself, would be applicable in this part to amend and tighten at least cases where the judge has ceased his judicial function, which we can really count on the fingers of one hand. There have also been cases of judges even deliberately violating human rights, not just minor matters, where they receive only a written reminder and thus end the story. Is there a public interest in this investigator? Of course there is. Next, this parliamentary inquiry should identify what changes are needed to ensure that violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms no longer occur or at least do not occur to such an extent. Here I stress that it should be a politically exposed person, such as Mr Kangler, to be an ordinary citizen, no one, in the notes, would be so inclined to violate human rights. And of course, these institutions of public office, which, by their political power, may have influenced prosecutors or judges to take responsibility for these violations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that this, now the fourth parliamentary inquiry in this mandate, will seek to identify and assess the actual situation in the wider sphere of justice, so that we can then, once again, take decisions in the National Assembly in the context of legislative change, which would undoubtedly have a positive impact on the image of the Slovenian judiciary. We therefore welcome the establishment of this parliamentary inquiry in the SDS Group of Members, and we also support it in the context of effective work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Ms Tina Heferle, you have the opportunity to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. When I wrote today's position on the purpose of this parliamentary inquiry in the LMŠ Group, I could not help but avoid the sentences which I have already spoken several times in the National Assembly. Today, too, the importance of the principle of the division of power and the independence of the judiciary, as provided for by the Constitution in our legal order, is renewed, only today, with the difference that the issue of the independence and independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which we know as part of the judiciary, is also an independent and independent state body. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to determine the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who are to participate in the preparation and execution of political and criminal prosecutions against the former mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and the state councillor of France Kangler. I have read this longer description on purpose, as it is already apparent from the outset that there is a lot of controversy in the parliamentary investigation with this purpose, and it creates very serious doubts about its admissibility in our parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a parliamentary inquiry may be ordered only on matters of public interest. However, the criminal proceedings against a particular natural person should not constitute a legal conclusion or unlawfully completed judicial proceedings, in our opinion. If anything, then the determination of a parliamentary inquiry with such content as proposed by the proposer is more indicative of some privilege given in the sense of an additional remedy in some way to a state councilor as an accused in criminal proceedings. It's totally unacceptable. It is more than obvious that the parliamentary investigation that is before us today is of no public importance, and the latter has also found in its opinion the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. On the basis of this parliamentary inquiry, the National Assembly is to assess whether the criminal proceedings against Franc Kangler were in accordance with substantive and procedural criminal law. The absurdity and inadmissibility of such work are clear and indisputable for the LMŠ Group. In no way does the National Assembly have the right and authority to assess the proper functioning of the judicial authorities or even to judge the correctness of judicial decisions. Here too, the Legislative and Legal Service has clearly and decisively taken the view that the legality, timeliness or regularity of the professional decisions of all judicial actors, both state prosecutors and judges, should be assessed within the framework of professional supervision. And if I quote the paragraph in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service: “Concrete actions, services or dismissals of state prosecutors cannot be subject to parliamentary investigation. Similarly, it is necessary to establish the admissibility of a parliamentary inquiry into specific prosecutions in those stages for which the court is responsible. By assessing the specific legal proceedings completed by the Commission of Inquiry, it would undoubtedly exceed its powers.” End of quote. It can't be any clearer than that. In the LMŠ Group, we believe that there is no doubt in this case that the fundamental principle of our legal system — the principle of the division of power — is gravely violated. Although the determination of today's parliamentary investigation is inevitable, the National Assembly must determine it on a proposal from the State Council and, unfortunately, its current treatment is more than not of a declaratory nature. However, in the LMŠ Group during the period until its actual establishment, we will have a serious and critical reflection on whether we want to participate in such an investigative committee, which refers to so many of the violations of the rule of law. Today we will not participate in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Predrag Baković, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u10	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! When we read the contents of this act of parliamentary inquiry prepared and written by the Social Democrats, we were deeply concerned. And it wasn't just us, it was obviously international institutions. GRECO, a group of countries in the fight against corruption in the Council of Europe, has launched an urgent assessment of the situation in Slovenia, particularly as regards the relationship between the legislative and judicial branches of government. Parliamentary investigation shall be carried out in matters of public interest in order to identify the actual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional competence. All of us who have read this document can see that he's talking about only one person, Frank Kangler. We therefore rightly ask ourselves where is the sufficient definition of the proposer of matters of public interest? Public matters are matters concerning the wider social community, that is, society, matters affecting the life of a community or society, and this is a matter of personal importance. Anyone who considers that he has been violated in a court of law, or anyone who is not satisfied with the court’s judgment, can complain even at several levels. It also has the possibility of a constitutional complaint which is specifically intended for the protection of human rights. Finally, it can also address the European Court of Human Rights. I ask the proposer to state how the National Assembly will, in this parliamentary inquiry, detect human rights violations against that person. How can the National Assembly determine which evidence was in force in a particular procedure and which does not, since it does not have a judicial file before it, have no insight into the documentation, does not have a full picture of the case? And it's also right that he doesn't have one. The National Assembly is the legislator. It's his basic function. The National Assembly is not a court of law. I appeal to all of us Members to devote our time to writing laws that are clear and convincing and that are primarily intended to ensure and respect fundamental human rights. That's our job here in the National Assembly. In order to strengthen the reputation of the judiciary and the confidence of the people in the judicial system, the judiciary must take care of itself in the first place. However, the question of the independence of the judiciary and the independence of state prosecutors is also largely a matter of conviction and consciousness in our society. If our society remains aware that the judiciary and state prosecutors are not independent and impartial, then we have a serious problem. Therefore, our conscience must be based on an independent and impartial decision in the courts, not the other way around. To strengthen this belief, we must take care of it. However, both the judiciary and the prosecution have mechanisms within them, professional supervision, including disciplinary procedures that assess the legality of the actions of judges and prosecutors. We must not allow parliamentary investigations to be misused for a flat-rate assessment of concrete, possibly incomplete judicial and other proceedings. The ideas about the rule of law go back a long way, back in ancient times. For many years, nations have fought against the will of rulers and, unfortunately, many victims have chosen the fundamental elements of the rule of law, such as the effective protection of human rights and the enforcement of laws as rules applicable to all, including elites and rulers. An independent judicial system is an essential element of the rule of law. Please respect this for those of you who will sit on this commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor on behalf of the modern centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues! Last month, the Council of State, at the initiative of the Commission for State Arrangements, which is also a member of Councillor Franz Kangler, adopted a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to participate in the preparation and execution of political and criminal prosecutions against the state councillor of Kangler and others. That's what the title of this act says. The National Assembly must, if so requested by the State Council — as is often the case in this house — establish an investigative commission in accordance with Article 93 of the Constitution. As is the case if a third of Members so require. Of course, we have a problem with this in our parliamentary group. We estimate that the National Assembly is not the one who uncritically accepts any request for an investigation, but must, within its responsibility, critically assess what this requirement is. If I recall our famous humorous Kozlov judgment in Visno Gora and pull some kind of parallel. This means that if the Council of State asks that it be determined whether the goat Lisec has milked salad and cabbage to the city of Andraž Slamorezc, then I should be investigated on the commission of inquiry. We at SMC estimate no. This is not the first and not the last request of the Council of State to order a parliamentary inquiry, although it is our view that this provision of the Constitution is such that it should be considered slightly in the light of the following amendments to the Constitution. Nevertheless, in our Group of Members, we warn that this is a very dangerous precedent. It is also the first request for a parliamentary inquiry in which the applicant or the Council of State did not wish to adapt its requirements to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the subject matter of the investigation to be framed in accordance with the law and the Constitution. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the issue of the legal and constitutionally permissible limits within which the National Assembly may investigate a particular case is raised, since the subject of a parliamentary inquiry must not interfere with the exclusive competence of the executive and judicial branches of authority. That's the ZPS. The parliamentary investigation can also be directed only against those holders of public functions who are politically responsible to the National Assembly. I ask myself here whether it's the State's Attorney's Office or whether it's the court that's politically in line with the National Assembly. Probably in Uganda, in a Central African Republic or somewhere else in the third world. But I hope never in Slovenia. The Legislative and Legal Service also points out that individual stages of prosecution proceedings fall exclusively within the competence of state prosecutors and that specific conduct cannot be subject to parliamentary investigation. It also notes the admissibility of the parliamentary investigation into specific prosecutions in those stages for which the court is responsible. As the Law-Legal Service continues, and of course we agree with it, when the Commission of Inquiry assesses the specific legal proceedings completed, it would undoubtedly exceed its powers. It also notes that in this request, the emphasis is mainly on Councilman Franco Kangler, which raises doubts as to whether the request contains sufficient justification for the matter being of public interest. If the Legislative and Legal Service doubts whether this is a matter of public interest, we are convinced in the SMC that this is not the case. It is a private matter of Frank Kangler, who, through the function of the Council of State, somehow seeks revenge for these judicial proceedings in which he was involved. This is not a matter of any public interest, it is only an abuse of the function of a state councillor. It grieves us, however, that the National Assembly will then accept all of this uncritically as an act establishing a parliamentary commission of inquiry. This commission of inquiry could easily be called an investigation for the revenge of Franco Kangler to the judges and prosecutors of his judicial proceedings. That is why we have, as you have been able to understand from these words, extreme concerns about whether to participate on such a committee or not. If I conclude with the Kozlov judgment I mentioned at the outset, even if the purpose of this investigation is to beat the goat's shadow, we will not look at it with our eyes tied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mrs Natasa Sukić, on behalf of the Left Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Your Honor! The Council of State has made a request for the establishment of an investigative commission to identify the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions involved in the prosecution of the state councillor, Frank Kangler. As is known, more than 20 criminal proceedings have been jointly brought against the former mayor of Maribor. As a result of his conviction in one of the many cases, he also lost the mandate of a state councillor. Kangler is constantly citing political structures, violations of his rights, and plotting all possible theories, by which he wants to wash his name and pass the blame on the law enforcement and the judiciary. This time, however, he has even used his role as State Councillor and requires a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate possible abuses and to report alleged injustices to him. Here we can ask ourselves: has the Council of State gone too far to investigate proceedings against Kangler? In the Kangler case, is it really about public concern or is it just a Frank Kangler show, as they say in the media? In Levika, we are convinced that this is nothing more than an abuse of the Institute of Investigation. However, today’s treatment and determination should not come at all in the event of such obvious abuse. Such an attitude is also accepted by the profession. The Supreme Public Prosecutor points out that such an investigation into the work of judicial officials in individual cases would mean, quote, “unlawful and unlawful interference with the independence and independence of the judiciary and the determination of the political responsibility of judicial officials is absolutely beyond the constitutional and legal powers of the legislative authority, since, last but not least, there are no holders of public functions who would be politically responsible to the National Assembly.” End of quote. Such behaviour would, according to their assessment, be not only a grave breach of the rule of law but would undermine the important balance guaranteed by the constitutional division of the legislative and judicial branches of power. The disruption of this balance poses a risk of serious negative social consequences, which could also be reflected at a broader international level, has been warned. The fact that the Commission of Inquiry should not be ordered also stems from the fact that even GRECO has responded to the request of the State Council, calling for an urgent assessment of the division of powers between the legislative and judicial branches of the authorities in Slovenia. The inadmissibility of such an investigation is also noted by the Constitutional Section, which points out that such an investigation would be justified only in the case of organised action in the judiciary against the former Mayor of Maribor, Franco Kangler, and otherwise not. At this point in time, it is an organized political construct that only Kangler is convinced of. However, there is neither the spirit nor the hearing about the grounds that should be based on the views of the former mayor of Maribor. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also draws attention to the principle of the division of power, which will be initiated by a contested commission of inquiry. With it, some would like to search for so-called culprits for the persecution of former Maribor mayor Franz Kangler. From all of this we can conclude that it is nothing more than a political show, which France Kangler abused as the State Council, through which the National Assembly requires the establishment of an investigative commission to protect its own narrow interests and desperate attempts to operate its own name. Let me finish. The National Assembly is not and cannot be a place for mayors to fight if I paraphrase the title of the book on the background of Kangler's personal and political apocalypse, as it is written in the subtitle of the book, since this would in fact constitute an attack on the independence of the judiciary in the country. Not only that, the National Assembly would send a clear signal to citizens and citizens of the first and second order citizens by setting up such an investigative commission. Nothing about how many people are being wronged, whether they are wronged or intrigued, but the National Assembly does not set up investigative committees for them. What makes Franz Kangler different from them? Why would the National Assembly overtake the rule of law for him, assist him in trying to overthrow the rule of law, and spread the general impression that we have a criminal record only because it is part of the political oligarchy, the political establishment, because it allows him to abuse the functions of a state councilman and political support of some thinkers? In Levika, we oppose the blind and the written rules of the Czech Republic. In the event of such apparent abuse by the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation Commission, the National Assembly should not be allowed to do so. We should not even discuss this today, but we should agree that the National Assembly should not only allow such abuse but even order it. We have no intention of cooperating in this disgrace in Levika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of MEP Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u16	Dear President, Honourable State Councillor, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Whether we are talking about specific cases today, either legally concluded or not, we can find a common denominator for many. These are judicial proceedings in which legal professionals, even some judges and prosecutors question the principle of justice and equality before the law. The situation in the area of detection and prosecution and in the field of the judiciary in Slovenia is at an unenviable level. Many cases of violations of constitutionally protected human rights and fundamental freedoms, excesses of powers for the purpose of abuse show that there is a great void in this area, which we can call corrupt practices or, if you want, deliberate harm, delaying procedures with the sole purpose of: ending proceedings without conviction or bringing criminal charges, discrediting a person, and then setting free or suspending proceedings after several years. On the one hand, we have cases where individuals are accused very quickly, there is a common lack of evidence for all, a number of procedural infringements and illegal decisions, and at the end of the legal release of any guilt, or the limitation and compensation of the European Court of Human Rights. We need to think of the information that in 22 years of the total 341 judgments, this court granted to Slovenian complainants in 319 cases because it found a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. These judgments are followed by high compensations paid by all taxpayers. On the other hand, we have cases where, despite the numerous legal evidence obtained, the trial does not take place and the indictments are not submitted, or procedures on the police and the prosecution are going very slowly. In Slovenia, the professional and lazi public are of the same opinion that mistrust in the rule of law is not the most important reason in poor or weak legislation, but in the abuse, abuse and non-execution of regulations or in the strong personal connections or interests of discrediting someone. There is no doubt that the judiciary represents an independent branch of power. However, the authorities themselves do not mean only justice and power, but also on the other hand a great deal of responsibility for the legitimate, proper and effective exercise of a trusted function. So the judiciary has not only the right but also the responsibility. And the problem isn't in justice, it's in accountability. Our legislation is still committed to the so-called collective responsibility, which in other words means that no one is responsible for any decision. The decision-making bodies are the judicial council, the personal council, the state prosecutor's council, the disciplinary commission and, behind these, all those who have the influence and the power of decision-making. All the shortcomings mentioned above must be addressed urgently. We cannot pretend that there is no pressure in the court, even though the Slovenian Constitution expressly stipulates in Article 125 that the judge is bound only by the Constitution and the law in the trial. It is therefore right for citizens to be able to publicly monitor the work and cooperation of all on which it depends, whether our country will indeed be a rule of law. For once, it is only 22 of the 28 members of the European Union. The Kangler case, if briefly named, raises great concern, concerns about respect for the principle of equality before the law, respect for human rights and concern for Slovenia's legal order. in Slovenia, we are facing an uneven case law, as well as an uneven prosecution practice. Or if I rescind, the citizens have the feeling that all of us are not subject to the same rules of the game. In this light, it is understandable that the attitude of citizens, people to the judiciary and authorities is all the more persecutive than positive. The task of the National Assembly as a legislative body, as well as the competent ministry, is to look at and analyse cases of why things get old, why there are procedural errors, where there are problems that people do not trust in the judiciary. The respect and cooperation of all three branches of government — both legislative, executive and judicial — is essential in order to remedy all these shortcomings. In New Slovenia, we hope that this commission of inquiry will help.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that. We're done with the presentation of the positions of the O Group of Members, sorry. [[…]] The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for her Masha Kociper. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u18	It's no big deal to the chairman. As the last to present the views of the SAB Group's views, we will not repeat many concerns. However, I will begin by contradicting in our party the so-called political persecution in which we feel that under the influence of the public opinion, I hope that, not under any other influence, the prosecution starts in cases where it later turns out that the charge did not have an appropriate basis and ends in failure. When it is unsuccessfully completed, it is unsuccessful – I mean, by way of a judgment of pardon, 20 or more proceedings against one person, it can rightly raise various doubts and concerns in the lay public. Also concerns about the functioning of the rule of law. But contrary to the proponents, the Council of State and some parties, such procedures were not only directed against the so-called right-wing policies. I'd mention something on the other side. The criminal procedure, including the house investigation against our President, Alenka Bratušek, is solely because she was one of the three candidates proposed for Commissioner, with abstaining from voting on this matter in the Government. Criminal proceedings, completed unsuccessfully, stopped. Not to mention the criminal proceedings against former Minister Zalar, High Prosecutor Fisher, for the political appointments they carried out under their political function. And against former Prime Minister Rope, who spent many years in a trial that ended with an acquittal – I think they even took his license in the middle. And two Secretary of State, Shkrlec and another Secretary of State, I think he was with Minister Kresal. And the criminal proceedings against Minister Marble. I'm pretty sure he's gonna end up with an acquittal, of course you never know. And to mention Mr Jankovic at the end. I broke up with him politically, but three criminal cases, which I had been convinced from the outset that there would be a free judgment, were also exempt, as it was clear from the allegations that there were no elements to the crime. So it's a serious problem to deal with. Here too, on behalf of our Group of Members, I call on the supervisory authorities within the judiciary and the prosecution to carry out their functions. To examine whether it is anomalies to see how the charges were filed and to strictly adhere to professional and other standards, including standards on what degree of suspicion must be given to pursue someone. Secondly, that all procedures, including against politicians, do not lead under the influence of public opinion, but that procedures are carried out quickly and effectively. Those who are guilty should be sentenced and punished by swift procedure. Those who are innocent, by swift and lawful procedure, be forgiven. Regardless of what we say, today we have a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to take part in the preparation and execution of prosecutions against one person, that is against Frank Kangler. We have a number of concerns against this concrete act, as have many colleagues from other parliamentary groups in our parliamentary group. The contention of this requirement has already been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-Corruption Commission. At the end of these positions, I will read once again what the Law on Parliamentary Investigation provides. The purpose of such an investigation shall be specified in the first Article. It shall be carried out in matters of public interest in order to establish and assess the actual situation. This may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to amend legislation and other decisions. It is an institution established at the level of the Constitution which is intended for the wider social control of the National Assembly. The three are also the main concerns of our parliamentary groups. The first point is related to the principle of the division of power. It is necessary to draw on the principle of the division of power laid down in Article 3 of the Constitution, which states that power is divided into legislative, executive and judicial matters. Each of the three branches of government must be independent and independent in its work and must not be subjected to any pressure. Thus, the conduct of this investigation would not constitute any other than an intervention by the legislative branch of the judiciary and by the prosecution, which would act independently and independently. Inadmissible and contrary to the principle of rule of law is the interference of the legislative body with decisions of the judiciary and law enforcement authorities in specific matters, as in this case. Judicial stakeholders should not be burdened with undue influences in their work, especially by politicians and political officials — such influences could also lead to decisions in the future, which is totally unacceptable. The Constitutional Court also warned that the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry should not affect the powers of the executive or the jurisdiction of the judiciary. It was explicitly argued that the decision in the National Assembly could not be the legality and appropriateness of individual judgments and proceedings. In this respect, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also been very clearly defined. The subject matter of a parliamentary inquiry must respect the principle of the division of power, the subject of a parliamentary inquiry must not be heard, and must be determined within the framework of the constitutional competences of the National Assembly. The restriction on the constitutional powers of the National Assembly means that the subject of a parliamentary inquiry must not affect either the exclusive powers of the executive or the jurisdiction of the court. I wonder whether the parties who are still so fragile here before yesterday, on my right side, will argue that the Constitutional Court must be respected and the Legislative and Legal Service here, too, respect the opinion of the Constitutional Court and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which in this case is truly clear and clear. The second issue concerns the pursuit of political responsibility. Political responsibility on the part of public officials — are state prosecutors and judges who have tried political functions in these cases? How will their political responsibility be determined if they are not? But there are also many dilemmas on how Members will identify this responsibility. Will they study the writings of the courts? They're going to review the indictments? Judgments? Did you judge the evidence yourself? As Parliament imagines it, I can't imagine it at all. The third issue is whether it is a matter of public interest. The emphasis of the parliamentary investigation should therefore be on matters of public interest, but this act does not mention anyone other than Councilman Franz Kangler. The question has already been asked whether it is a matter of pursuing the private interest of the individual. Once again, we feel sorry for and understand his distress by having been in some proceedings for so long that he was eventually forgiven. Many of these procedures raise suspicions, but these matters must be dealt with by those who are called by our legislation and constitutional order, otherwise we can all start dealing with everything, judge each other and so on. In our parliamentary group, we have a number of serious concerns about the legality and constitutionality of the work of such a parliamentary inquiry, and we will continue to think thoroughly about participating in the work of such a parliamentary commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much, and once again, I apologize for your loss. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word is given by Anja Bah Žibert, followed by Franz Breznik and then by Predrag Baković. Anya, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word! Today we are talking about the establishment of an important investigative commission. And it is what has been pointed out in some opinions that we have difficulties when it comes to our national authorities, when it comes to holders of state powers who obviously do not work in accordance with the law that clearly violates the legislation, including the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, human rights and systems do not react. Why systems don't react is another question. Is there a political motive behind this? And this is where we need to find each other. For no branch of authority shall be subordinated to some forces from behind, if I may appoint them. Today, some of you wanted to turn around in some way, but why would it be inappropriate for this commission of inquiry to be established? Now I'm going to paint things a little differently. For example, it is called the Commission of Inquiry, not the Franc Kangler case, but the Damir Črnčec case because of abusive tweets and hate speech. The person referred to shall have more than 20 proceedings before a court of law. In 21 cases he is already forgiven, in one case he is essentially in financial matters, he is in legal proceedings and he is also exempt. And then, when this procedure is conducted in the case of Damir Črnčec, the following judges appear: Mr Stok, Mr Gazvoda. This is how they appear at one party SD. Damir Črnčec is in the process before them. And of course, this trial falls, but not before these judges, but after the Supreme Court finds out that someone's human rights have been violated. And when the proceedings are conducted by Damir Črnčec, Judge Žirovnik appears. And this judge is in charge of proceedings against Damir Črnčec, who wants to run for, I don't know, the mayor, we'll tell Ljubljana, and his opponent is from the SMC. This judge shows up at this party when the SMC candidate wins, he shows up at their party. It is said that he conducts proceedings against the anti-candidate and then appears at a party and cheers to the candidate, but rather leads procedures in which he violates human rights and in which he should be eliminated, because he knew the person Damir Črnčec very well. When I turned this story around, I was wondering if your decisions would be different. Depends on what background Damir has. If it was strong enough, we would probably approach it if it wasn't, we'd give it up and we'd take a stand for judges who are politically motivated. Today I have proved to you myself that they are politically motivated. They go to political party parties, they hang out there and they run procedures on the other hand. And whoever says today that such a commission is not necessary and that everything is good in our country does not realize that we have a tuberculosis society. Our society is tuberculosis. When we want to open up the issue in the courts, when we want to open the issue in the prosecutions, then you say no, we can't talk about it. That's not true! That's what we need to talk about! You're saying the system has to handle this thing on its own. The system doesn't handle them on its own. The fact that only the Ethics and Integrity Commission in the Court of Justice is then declared against these judges is not enough. There are some facts that they have acted against the code of ethics, that they have not done as the code of ethics commands them, but nothing happens, respectable. Nothing happens. This means that the next time at these parties will certainly be possible, I don't know, just two representatives of one of the political parties and everyone else will be judges. Because, in fact, they are rewarded in some way for their actions. And we need to call it a stop, regardless, whether it's Franz Kangler or it's Damir Crnčec. If we are truly honest in the National Assembly, we will treat citizens and citizens equally. And there's something else about this event that's actually scary. The man in question was deprived of his mandate. You know, this term didn't come back. This mandate has not been refunded. Mr Kangler was subsequently re-elected, and I have nothing to do with the mandate taken from him unjustly, unconstitutionally and thereby violating human rights. Look, this is a politically very dangerous moment. Who assures this country that someone else will not be next time? Damir Črnčec when he's elected. I'll finish at this point. I welcome the establishment of this Commission, and I am still afraid in some way that the metamorphosis of the left that appeared in the previous mandate in such a form today is in such a form, but that it always has one synthesis when it comes to protecting its own, that I hope that in this case it will overcome and overcome reason and that all parliamentary parties will participate in this commission and help to make things clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Breznik, who is not. After him, he gets the word Predrag Baković, and then Eva Irgle, and then Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. The request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, which is to take part in the preparation and execution of political and criminal prosecutions against the former Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and the member of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, Franz Kangler and others, in my opinion, is contentious. Why? Since the identification of political responsibilities and judicial officials is absolutely beyond the constitutional and legal powers of the legislative branch of power. There are no public officials in the judiciary who would be politically accountable to the National Assembly. See, such an attempt to introduce a parliamentary inquiry is not only a grave breach of the rule of law, it is also an attempt to break the constitutional balance between the legislative and judicial branches of government. The breakdown of this balance is certainly a risk of serious negative social consequences which could also be reflected at a broader international level. This has already been demonstrated by the response of a group of anti-corruption countries to the Council of Europe, the so-called GRECO, and the urgent assessment of the division of powers between the legislative and judicial branches of our country. Such treatment prior to this international institution has placed our country in a group of those countries where there has been such severe deviations from European anti-corruption standards that an urgent response or reaction is needed. This cannot mean anything good for the reputation of Slovenia at international level. It also points out that, even though the first part of the order explicitly refers to the treatment of prosecutions against Frank Kangler and others, it is clear from other parts of the requirement that the only emphasis is on the person of Frank Kangler and the delivery of "and others" is nowhere subjectively explained and broken down, which, due to the high focus of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, raises doubts as to whether it provides sufficient justification for the matter of public importance as the main concept set out in the first article of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. Public matters are matters that are not entirely personal or private and concern the wider community, i.e. society. Thus, there are phenomena and practices that affect not only individuals but the wider community and affect the lives of a community and affect common values, a common good. The subject matter of the investigation shall be limited to the constitutional powers of the National Assembly and shall therefore be without prejudice to the exclusive powers of the executive and judicial branches of the authorities or other State bodies. It follows from the order that the Commission of Inquiry should focus on identifying the political responsibilities and public function holders involved in the political and criminal prosecution of France Kangler or on which of the holders of public functions should order individual procedural actions at different stages of the criminal procedure. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to identify and explore actual situations that will be the basis for the adoption of legal and political decisions by the National Assembly. Therefore, the subject matter of a parliamentary inquiry cannot be arbitrary but must be determined within the constitutional competences of the National Assembly. The restriction on the constitutional powers of the National Assembly means that the subject of a parliamentary inquiry must not affect either the exclusive powers of the executive or the jurisdiction of the judiciary. The individual stages of prosecution proceedings, which are included in the first part of the request, fall exclusively within the competence of the state prosecutors responsible for the prosecution of these offences and also of the courts. With regard to the legality, timeliness of work and regularity of the professional decisions of state prosecutors in relation to the enforcement policy in force, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that this is being assessed within the framework of professional supervision. This shall be carried out within the Public Prosecutor's Office because the unsuspecting, inappropriate, misdemeanour of the prosecution's service is defined as a serious disciplinary offence for which disciplinary sanctions may be imposed in the disciplinary procedure. Therefore, the specific conduct of state prosecutors cannot be the subject of a parliamentary investigation. The Legislative and Legal Service also states that it is necessary to establish the same as regards the admissibility of a parliamentary inquiry into specific prosecutions in those stages for which the court is responsible. By legally assessing the specific legal proceedings completed by the Commission of Inquiry, it would undoubtedly exceed its powers, as the Constitutional Court expressly pointed out in its decision No 244/99, which states that the Constitution gives rise to two important restrictions on the investigation activities of the National Assembly. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation must respect, on the one hand, the principle of the division of power and, on the other hand, the constitutional right of the individual. I have read this decision 244/99, and the Constitutional Court here says that the constitutional limitation of parliamentary investigative activity is relative to the judiciary in the principle of the independence of the judiciary, i.e. Article 125 of the Constitution. Since the judiciary, as one of the three branches of government, is involved in a system of mutual control, limitation and cooperation, the problems of the functioning of the judiciary as a whole and the developmental trends in the judiciary may be the subject of a parliamentary inquiry. The length of the proceedings may be one such case. The principle of the independence of the judiciary, however, prohibits the other branch of authority from taking decisions relating to open court proceedings which may have any effect on the formulation of an opinion on a case-by-case basis. In doing so, it is not essential in what form Parliament is trying to influence the decision of the Court. The decision-making in Parliament and therefore the subject of a parliamentary inquiry for the same reasons cannot be the legality and appropriateness of individual judgments and judicial proceedings. He continues: "The judges cannot be heard in the parliamentary investigation procedure on matters which have been or have been the subject of a judicial decision. Such a prohibition arises from the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Constitution, which provides for the immunity of the judge with regard to the opinion he gave in court. The Constitutional Court on this decision, which referred to a specific case” – this was a parliamentary inquiry into the operation of one company and an investigation into the suspicion of the abuse of public powers in the property transformation and privatisation process of former social property and stated that “it is obvious that the Commission of Inquiry, by assessing the specific” – attention, concrete – “legally final proceedings, has exceeded its competence.” Read about it. It's online. It's interesting. Also with regard to the findings of alleged illegal management and the management of police records, the Legislative and Legal Service draws attention to possible violations of the principle of the division of power. In particular, points 9, 11 and 12 of the description of the public interest point to the exercise of control procedures over the effectiveness, up-to-dateness and legality of the work of the police officers. This is not within the competence of the National Assembly, because it exercises comprehensive, systematic and planned control over the police of the Ministry of the Interior. The Legislative and Legal Service also points out that the text of the requirement in certain places is so general that it raises the issue of the actual boundaries within which the Commission may carry out certain matters. If the content of the request is not defined incontrovertibly and definitively, the Commission of Inquiry may, in its doubt as to the content of the parliamentary inquiry, request the decision of the National Assembly, but this would lead to a delay in the conduct of the parliamentary inquiry, and the legality of the Commission's operation may also be questionable. Yesterday, a colleague from the opposition praised the Law on the Control of the State Borders and gave them the legal and legal service in both the field of expertise and authority. He said that the coalition has recently had obvious difficulties with understanding the law and that we have an excellent group, which consists of a group of lawyers also with the highest academic addresses that make up the Legislative and Legal Service. Of course, I also agree with this, and somehow naively I hoped that the opposition colleagues would still have a kind of high opinion today on the expertise of the Legal and Legal Service, but I am somehow disappointed. Today the opposition's opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service is miraculously no longer so-sung authority and expertise. Because if I did, we wouldn't be talking here today. In its opinion, the order of activity of the Council of State in the request for parliamentary investigation is also discussed. First, a request for a parliamentary inquiry was made, which was included on the proposal for agenda of the 10th meeting, i.e. following the proposal of the State Council for the withdrawal of this item from the agenda and then following the withdrawal of the proposal of the State Council for the withdrawal of this item from the agenda. A little complicated, no, but you know, it says a lot about all things and, of course, the one who can, wants or wants to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Eva Irgle has the word, and Jean Mahnič and Dejan Kaloh are to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'll be very short. I do not intend to discuss the investigative commission itself, which today is on the agenda and has been proposed by the Council of State, not on a specific name, but perhaps something about the judicial system is necessary here in this debate. We live in a country for which we wanted it to be based on the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Any such anomalies or, where there is doubt in the correct or fair conduct of the judicial system, of course, diminish the confidence of citizens and citizens in this branch of authority and, of course, we have a problem here. Today, if we look at it, all the research shows that around 73% of citizens and citizens do not trust in the justice system, and we, too, in the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, get the most role from the justice system, where it is clear that human rights have been repeatedly violated in various court proceedings. The European Court of Human Rights has also repeatedly warned us that due to unreasonablely long-term periods, that is, because the right to a trial is violated within a reasonable period of time, that these things must be settled, and because the right to a trial within a reasonable time period is violated, of course, all other human rights are subsequently violated. If the European Court of Human Rights points out this, then I need to pay more attention and actually find that something in this country is seriously wrong with the justice system. We have repeatedly pointed out this, to the anomaly within the justice system, how important it is that judges and prosecutors are aware that they must be responsible for the mistakes made in the proceedings when it is found that they have violated human rights through the trial. The Penal Code is also clear, clearly sanctioning such behaviour. But, colleagues and colleagues, we are regrettably in a country where, practically, when we talk about sanctioning at this level, no one is sanctioned for this and is not responsible for procedural errors. About four years ago, we spoke to the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities about abuses of justice for political purposes. We have mentioned various cases, and within these cases we have also proved that human rights have been violated. But nothing's changed since that session, not even a millimeter. If that were the case, perhaps today we should not talk about the establishment of an investigative commission. No, then the coalition decided to obstruct the meeting, even though it was a manifest violation of human rights. And then the Slovenian Democratic Party also proposed two conclusions, which were very general, of course we could not vote on them because the coalition decided not to discuss them. Here I see personally the biggest problem, that when we realize that there have been some injustices, that we can step together and assess this not at the political level, but at a purely personal, human level, and at a level bound to the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this country, many people are violated human rights. Every year, we draw attention to this in the Ombudsman’s report. We warn, however, both through the Commission and at other levels. But many times nothing moves even a millimeter, even because human rights, even in the coalition, are too often perceived and seen through the prism of politicization and ideology, not through the prism of the constitution and the laws. When we change that in this country and start to look at these things differently and actually realize that it is important that all of us together, even those sitting here in the National Assembly, respect the Constitution and the laws, and that when there is a violation of the Constitution and the laws, we will also note that when we all understand this together, then we will be able to move on. Until then, however, it will obviously be necessary to establish such and different commissions of inquiry. Therefore, I propose that every Member elected to this Assembly in the State should personally ask and question before deciding on any matter to vote against or to actually decide in accordance with the laws and the Constitution and that he is actually trying to act fairly and fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Member Jean Mahnic has the word, and then there is a smaller change, and Alice Jeraj will also discuss it as the last Dejan Kaloh. Member, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This lack of debate by the coalition and the short debate that will prove how serious it will be for those who benefit from this corrupt justice in the Republic of Slovenia, from the justice that is least professional in the European Union, which is the result of human rights violations at the summit, in the European Union – non-professionalness, politics. They're not judges, they're prosecutors, they're sociopolitical workers. Most of them work in the interest of politics, not in the interest of human rights, and of citizens and citizens. Of course, there are also bright exceptions, but unfortunately these bright exceptions do not stand out enough and say what is wrong with their own species. This silence today, because obviously by silence you are defending this rotten justice, while some of you have highlighted yourself, you can probably expect to be left alone in your subsequent careers, but if you come to a close meeting with them, you will be protected – at least we do not have judges in the Slovenian Democratic Party who would go to our picnics, as they do at the social democrats' picnics. [[…]] We do not have judges in the Slovenian Democratic Party who go to the headquarters of our mayoral candidates, as judges do in the headquarters of the mayoral candidates of the Modern Centre Party, and we are justifiably critical of such and different behaviours towards the act of this justice. There's never been a lustration in justice. The judges who tried, the prosecutors who sued in the previous non-democratic system, still judge and sue today. There's no such thing in Germany. You can't even be an MP in Germany if you've cooperated with Secret Service if you've worked with Stasi. Members of us, former members of the State Security Service, in our previous mandates, in particular, but, in our country, this is normal, isn't it, obviously, someone can switch from totalitarian to democracy overnight. Justice is a living proof that it is not possible, because they are still based on the same mental pattern as they were before and as they sued in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The President of the Supreme Court – Branko Maslesha – became someone who was impressed by how border guards shot people in the head of illegal refugees. Not to mention Fisher, who persecuted the priests in the former system, because after the wars they had been killed, they set crosses — there, in the forest. These are Slovenian prosecutors, these are Slovenian judges! A Maltese woman would not allow them to guard — the dog, the small one, the white one — but not to judge and decide on human rights, the human daily life, their lives, which are then marked by years and years. We have the worst judges and the worst prosecutors. Of course, I apologize, and in advance I take on those who do not recognize themselves in this and, of course, there are exceptions, bright exceptions. There are many who do not like the way justice is treated as it is, but it is dealt with because of those colleagues who do it and who should have been expelled from justice long ago; from Vesna Pavlič Pivk forward and others. There's a lot of them. I welcome the establishment of this parliamentary commission; it is welcome, because this parliamentary commission of inquiry will reveal all the corruption and misery of the Slovenian judicial system. The Slovenian judicial system, which benefits mainly the political left and therefore defends it at all times. Do not let anyone say anything through Slovenian justice, because there are our comrades and comrades who will defend us and forgive us in case we are ever tried. Criminal police - worse, worse! What are they doing there? In every normal democratic European country, we would have flown a long time ago, but that's because there was no clean-up, after 1991, everything got the worst. All the worst personnel have been left there and that is why today we have what we have, and Slovenian justice is nothing more than a means of accounting with the opposition, for dealing with members of the right political option, because this is the only way the left can preserve primate in this country if it is under judicial protection. And this left here is under judicial protection, or you'd have flown out of power a long time ago. A billion euros washed up in the New Ljubljana Bank – nothing! You rewarded Harry Furlan with the office of Attorney General. In any normal country, Harry Furlan would never cross the door of a court or a prosecutor's office or anything. You put him on the pedestal. Those responsible for a billion-dollar wash for terrorists across the NLB — where are they today? Since it's July, it's Friday, it's probably on its yachts and sailboats by sailing marinas. They enjoy and spend taxpayers' money and the money they received from commissions so that we can co-finance terrorists. All rewarded, some financially, others with rich and well-paid functions. At first, political affairs began, on the basis of which the left option always won, from Depala to the village. Then, in 2004, you had a breakdown, and the right-centre political option came to power, not in full; at that time, the three right-wing parties had 45 votes; for the majority, Desus was missing, at that time with four MPs. And then something had to be done that, given that the situation in the country was good in 2008, something had to be done so that the mandate of the other Janša government would not then be repeated. Of course, it started with new affairs, then the Patricia affair. Who was responsible for this affair? Nobody. Vesna Pavlič Pivk publicly praised that judge, czš, “good that you hoped, good that you did.” As the Prime Minister says to the Minister of Social Affairs today, you have made an illegal but bravo, congratulations on your courage. So courage, which is contrary to the Constitution, to laws, to human rights. But such courage is obviously rewarded. Next. The early elections held in 2014 used this corrupt justice even to close the leader of the opposition. Three weeks before the parliamentary elections on the basis of a playful, complicated affair, they shut down the president of the largest party in Slovenia. It's hard for anyone to understand when I'm talking to my colleagues abroad. But if he does not understand all the backgrounds and, above all, the situation in Slovenian justice, he – logically – cannot be clear. Since this combination of political liquidation with the participation of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, and especially with support to the left of non-critical media, is successful, this is repeated from day to day, month to month, year to year. The following case was the mayor of Maribor, Franz Kangler, who was not a political mayor, the mayor of the second largest city and therefore had to be politically disabled. There have been many such political liquidations of mayors, ministers, Members. At the time it was a vote on the RTV law, Andrej Magajna, then a Member of the Social Democrats, did not support this law. What happened to him? Suddenly the police broke into his home, took his computers, hard drives, accused him of having pedophile films, photos of young girls, and so on. And what happens? The police are losing the disks! They're losing evidence! In short, people were politically destroyed. Probably when he walks down the street, who says, look, that's the pedophile. Never guilty, never convicted, but he's in the light of a lot of pedophile citizens because that's what the corrupt Slovenian police said. Then they lost the disks – they lost it in the noodles. Someone put them in a drawer or took them home. And that's how it happens from day to day. The above-mentioned liquidation of the mayor of Maribor required a criminal police in Maribor, a reliable prosecutor in Maribor, an investigative judge in Maribor, and procedures for investigating the worst actions in constitutionally guaranteed rights. I would understand if Franz Kangler had killed or led someone to murder to use the worst forms of covert investigative measures, but no, thank God he didn't do it, but they used these worst forms of covert investigative measures to trigger investigations, eavesdropping, tracking – remember those famous birdhouses – and with other available forms, the police and the prosecutor have drawn up 23 criminal charges against the mayor and a precisely defined investigative judge has proposed measures. After one of the prosecutors who stopped persecuting Franco Kanglera came to KNOVS, he said: “With the moment that I stopped chasing Franc Kangler, a calvary began for me: by my fellow prosecutors, by the judges, by the media, by Sova.” This is happening! Žirovnik, Janez Žirovnik, came an order on Telekom Slovenije, signed by Janez Žirovnik. Then what happened? Thank God Telekom Slovenije copied this document that they had proof, they called to send back this order, because they will write up some additional phone numbers and send it back. But it was written by John Žirovnik, but it was not signed by John Žirovnik! So, in this way, if one of us is being investigated, a judge sends a request for a phone call on Telekom Slovenije, when he sends it, and there's a gang in the back that decides to call Telekom to send it back, they'll write some more numbers. Can you imagine looking into, say, Tina Hefferle, and then they call back and they say, "Let's get Jozet Lenart upstairs and Lydia Divac Mirnik and somebody else?" I don't know if Tina would look at this calmly, even those who gave it extra, probably wouldn't look at it calmly. But that's what's going on. Of course, since it's not happening to you, let it continue to happen. Since this is happening to Franc Kangler, who is the representative of the right political option, thank God that this is happening, in general, because it is dangerous for him to ever return to politics, as a corrupt judge said there, that he should therefore be sentenced to more than six months because it is dangerous for him to ever return to politics again; it is said to be for seven months. Because if he's up to six, he's got a term, and seven is too much. And you expect us to remain silent, not to investigate the corruption, corruption, unprofessionalness and politics of this judicial system that does not deserve to be called the justice system?Oh, my God! All those judges and prosecutors, who hope to raise their voices and tell them what's wrong, then press and otherwise pursue themselves. Remember, for example, Judge Radonič. If there were more judges like this, I believe this justice would be cleared. And after 20 criminal charges fell, the police said that, unfortunately, we had collected too little evidence for the conviction, despite the fact that they were looking for this evidence with all available means – that is to say, with those I already mentioned, with the strictest covert investigative measures, the man and his privacy completely dispersed, the recordings of his hearings were broadcast by the media before the main hearing of the court, the Maribor students, the students, all of them talk about it – but not. So the goal has already been achieved. This is the part of the political liquidation, which is probably followed by another one, as Milan Kučan spoke there at Novi Gorica on a round table. And what is essential: no one is responsible for the abuse of these institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. Nobody. Human rights are violated from day to day, and no one is responsible. We should take the personal responsibility of the judges. If something goes public, he will pay his own wages; even from retirement, German judges will pay to death. Then we'd think about it. Yeah, I'm gonna convict him, because if I wasn't right, he'll be excused by the seniors. That's not how it works! The only court with us, as reliable as it is, is constitutional. What's underneath it is a disaster! It is not possible to trust Slovenian courts, it is not possible to trust Slovenian justice not only because of political cases, but because of cases of citizens and citizens facing bizarreness and injustices shared by Slovenian courts, Slovenian judges. Prosecutors as well – remember, for example, the Robert Fojaker case. Until he threatened to burn himself in front of parliament, nothing happened. And where's that prosecutor? She's still very bright at the D.A.'s office. Tell me, what the hell is he still doing at the D.A.'s office? She's incapable of winning! But she's still out there chasing those who don't fit the political left, those who are either representatives of the political left or associated with it, and she's chasing them so that something falls through the process – Jankovic, Balkan warrior Short, a prosecutor who can do what he wants, and the prosecutor who works on the order – obviously – is still there. If we were a normal state of law, Blanka Žgajnar wouldn't be a prosecutor because she's a disgrace to the prosecution. Because he's a disgrace to the D.A.'s office. And then the state prosecutor says in the case of Frank Kangler that a proposal was made on our part and the court, after weighing the evidence, issued a court order, on the fact that the police and the prosecution had to have sufficient evidence for such an intervention that there were already reasonable grounds for suspecting that the person had committed an apparent crime. This standard is not considered political liquidation. We know that there is no appeal against the order of the investigating judge, and if, on the basis of an order to carry out covert investigative measures, criminal proceedings are initiated, then it is only in criminal proceedings that it is possible to challenge that order and not before. If, of course, the data were obtained unlawfully, if they were disproportionate or if an investigating judge had to be excluded in the proceedings. And who is this investigating judge? Who's Janez Žirovnik? Yes, he was at Owl when Franz Kangler was a member of the KNOVS. They had quite a fight inside and, of course, he took revenge on him. First, because he was controlling him because he didn't understand himself because Kangler was causing him problems, and secondly, because Janez Žirovnik is a member of the left political option, which also works according to the left policy option. And no one is responsible for illegal activity, but if then, in long-term judicial proceedings, the content itself finds that the decision is illegal or unprofessional, but of course the content has been adopted, no one wonders why it was done or why someone did it. There are still many such cases, and such cases will be dealt with by this commission of inquiry. I believe this is about your nails because you're defending this perverted justice system, but once you do, you have to say it's over. They are not judges and prosecutors of the constitution, of Parliament, of God, if you will. No one is above the Constitution, except for God. We have judges and prosecutors who seem to think they are. And Parliament – you will not talk to me about non-politicality, because it is Parliament which appoints judges. As long as I vote for the judge, I also have the right to ask him a question. Why aren't public hearings? Why are they hiding from people? How are they judged in the name of the people, if the people do not know them? When they are swept away from their own doorstep, that is when we will begin to respect them! As long as they don't, we're gonna hit that threshold with this investigative committee! It is time for this commission of inquiry to be established and for all these judges and prosecutors who violate human rights to be placed in a chair before the commission of inquiry to be finally seen by the Slovenian public and to see Slovenian citizens and citizens who pay from the state budget. We hope that this Commission will achieve two objectives, at least in person I hope. For the first time, to reveal all the misery and who is responsible for this misery in Slovenian justice, and for the second time to teach all those prosecutors and judges who would like to afford something similar in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. As the last on the list of discussers, Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the word, and the mag is to be prepared. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, lovely greetings to all! The fact is, we have a problem with the judiciary in this country whether we admit it or not. I'm not saying that many judges don't work properly, and that's why it's even more unfair for them to fall into some weird light because we're having different anomalies. Some are doing well and all thanks for their work, but in recent years we have witnessed by the judiciary many strange proceedings and decisions and it is more than obvious that something is not going well. We have huge judgments that have fallen, and very receptive judgments. Patria, an example of Novič, an example of the Balkan warrior who was given a bunch of health complaints – nothing happens; complaints, an investigative commission on the subject of banks – nothing happens, despite much evidence. I myself led an investigative commission dealing with Mayor Jankovic, providing a lot of evidence to the National Investigation Office — nothing or nothing worse happens. In one case, when the prosecution has a hearing and proof that Mr Jankovic has requested sexual services in exchange for employment, this country will destroy this evidence and condemn someone for whom there is no evidence. So more than obvious things don't work and citizens don't believe in the judiciary anymore. We have the most judges per capita, at the same time the most setbacks that are somehow eliminated. If people were to die in this way, as in waiting lines, we might be able to eliminate it a little more intensely, because judicial proceedings, if years and years, are going on — we have somehow come to terms with it. So, most of the judges per capita, most of the backlogs, we're the first to have human rights violations. When people are looking for justice, thank God that the European Union or the Court of Human Rights is over us, otherwise some would still be living in the illusion that we are all running as well as we should. Fortunately, people are now deciding, after failing to achieve justice here, to appeal to the Court of Human Rights and get it. So, Slovenia – the first since human rights violations, an unreasonable trial, a criminal judgment and then the case is returned to Slovenia and the country, that is, all taxpayers, we are paying damages for the bad decisions of our judges. We should be ringing all the alarms, and we should be trying to eliminate the anomalies. I'm not gonna be like my colleague Jean who says everything sucks. It's not, is it? Probably not in court. But if there are problems and things don't work, we don't benefit from sweeping them under the rug, but it will only benefit if we fix and eliminate those who do bad things. Another case in recent times – the warehousekeeper Uroš Smiljić, who has made sure that people have skipped the waiting line in exchange for 20,000 euros, has been proven to have received this money, convicted, but the court has ordered that the Clinical Center should take it back to work. They're all laughing at us! How could a judge who accused him of corruption at the same time say that the Clinical Center should take him back to work? Instead of sitting in prison, a person will now go back to work, let’s just say that he will no longer take money from people to skip species — but hello! So what country are we? Colleague Anja gave the case of judges who were at the SD picnic. One of the judges said that this has been going on for 20 years, which is probably true, as said by Comrade Mahnic, that there has not been much change in the judiciary, we also have photos of a judge dancing and rejoicing with a pioneer cap or in a pioneer outfit and with a cap with a red star, even the president thinks it's a court. And then we wonder what's happening to us in court, and again we condemn those who do good in court for injustice. Therefore, one investigative commission, which would highlight one case where, with much evidence, we can already see that it was a political persecution, but not a crime that was actually reported and so on, virtually all the procedures or most of them have already fallen, some such test stone, to what extent we can endure and how far it will go. I therefore support the request for a parliamentary inquiry, and I do not understand the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service as some of you do. In certain matters, the law enforcement service said that it must be more confused or more specific about what would be investigated, but did not say that we should not do so, so we should set up an investigative commission for this case. So I'm going to vote for it. Above all, I want some things to change and happen within the judiciary. I think it's happening. But why is it happening? Because we have been talking a little differently about our judiciary for 10 years because we are talking about the results because we are talking about the statistics that I mentioned earlier — that is, the first after the violations. 10 years ago, when I was first elected to the National Assembly, 14 years ago, we had heard that there should be no comment about the judiciary and so on. Thank God we've made a lot of progress since then, and we can talk about it now, just as everyone else in this country who does not do their jobs well can be criticized. However, we are far from being able to effectively control the judiciary, one possibility is public hearings and so on. We have made quite a number of such proposals in the SD Group of Members, but they have not been accepted, so today we are discussing the Commission of Inquiry proposed by the Council of State, and I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. It's like the last time he gets the word "magic." Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u30	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. In the position itself, as well as colleagues, they said more or less everything; the necessity of the investigation itself, that these violations should be made public again, even here in the National Assembly. Now, I would like to give some responses to previous debaters, especially from the coalition party, so that it is not misunderstood. This "France Kangler and Others" dictatorship has been repeatedly told where others are. I, too, have said that during the course of the parliamentary investigation, it is possible to extend the subject and scope to other cases. Therefore, my fellow coalition MPs, without fear. Such cases will certainly continue to be detected and will be included in the parliamentary investigation, as these cases are an indication that Slovenian policy has actually been involved in the proceedings and that these are proceedings in the prescribing cases and in the prosecution itself and in the courts. I, too, have detected some discomfort in some way, there must even be some kind of panic on the right side. Today, we have just become acquainted with this request of the State Council, and we will not even vote, so I do not know why such panic is. It's probably the right thing to do when you step on your tail. If you walk as a judge for various tea parties to the option that still wears symbols of the former totalitarian regime on these picnics, it is clear that it is then to feel some discomfort. However, I would like to point out that today was really the most important speech on former Mayor Maribor Franc Kangler, but I would also like to put myself on the stand to clear things up, even if it were possible for former Mayor Selnice of Drava Mr. Yuri Lepa, who is not here today or now, if it were the former Deputy Mayor of Piran, Mrs Meiro Hot; for each of those who felt or where the Indians would be clear that it was a violation of human rights. Thus, it is not only Kangler who somehow belongs to this right political sphere, but also to others, if he felt that it was so necessary to include these cases in the commission. Why this Maribor of ours, this Maribor of ours? The analysis, a study by two lawyers, Yuri Toplak and Andraza Terška, showed that the area of the Maribor courts, compared with the national level, is somehow subject to an average violation of human rights. Why is that now? Perhaps it is because of what colleague Jeraj points out that certain judges still like to sneer with totalitarian symbols. And, look out! The study showed that the likelihood of human rights violations in the Maribor courts is 40% higher than in the capital of Ljubljana. It is said that these Maribor courts are in some way contaminated by some mentality, which is by no means part of this democratic structure of Slovenia. Let me also remind you, for example, of Boris Popovic, mentioned in the 2005 parliamentary investigation. As soon as Boris Popovic won the 2002 elections and when that traditional red fortress was defeated, a variety of procedures were immediately launched; from inspections, administrative, judicial and so on. Of course, there was no doubt that politics was involved. Even former President Milan Kučan, believe it or not, said in a statement to POP TV on 19 November 2006. He stated: “I protest in law enforcement that it is impossible for a person who is loved for the mayor to sit in detention for so long and nothing happens.” Mr Kučan's statements in this context do not, of course, have to be understood in such a way that he wanted to help Mr Popovic in this regard, in order to make matters process more quickly, but probably why he had not already gone from detention directly to prison. If one of the most visible, influential politicians in the country, the former head of the Slovenian Party clearly, I would say, enter his statement into an independent branch of power, then it is no wonder that these matters are happening today. On this page they also talked about the division of powers. It is already clear to the elementary school how the state system is in place in our country, legislative, judicial and executive, and, as has already been said with the applicant, no one will intervene in some open procedures, as this is clear. In addition, as I have already said in my position, 21 criminal cases are legally completed, one fair case is closed, it is said that there is not even a variety of speeches to interfere with where the constitutional framework does not allow this. Of course, Members forget that in addition to the legislative function, we also have an electoral function in the National Assembly, we have a supervisory function and that, in addition to the traditional institution of questions sent, interpellation is also one of the instruments of parliamentary investigation to verify the controversial work of the executive branch and other public function holders. He also mentions how he immediately raised his voice, yes, and now the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation will be abused. But look who GRECO is in Slovenia. GRECO in Slovenia is an equation of Drago Kos. Drago Kos was sometimes even in charge of this international organization for the prosecution of corruption, but at the same time Drago Kos was also that exporter of the Patria affair to Finland to return from there as a ball back to Slovenia. Thus, now GRECO is not exactly – as I would say – in this regard the criticism of the parliamentary investigation is the right address. On the other hand, GRECO is silent as a grave when it comes to a novelty of tobacco law, where the PKK has already launched an investigation into the suspicion of unlawful influence on this bill. Here's GRECO quiet. Here, when they have some links to their former presidents, and here immediately, especially since a policy from the right political sphere is included here, there is an immediate danger of interfering with the second branch of government. Allow me See what I have in my hand – the book of the Mayor's Fight, which was also mentioned today by the Member. [[…]] The mayor's fight was written by former criminalist Zoran Šarič, a Maribor criminalist who was 25 years in this area, who wrote a very thorough analysis of all these procedures. As a child’s father, I was most pained to learn that at an early stage of pressure, these illegal pressures — in this case, we are talking about the Maribor police. See page 243, what certain Maribor criminals were doing, says one of those who tried to instrumentalize it against Kangler: “At the moment that in some way the criminalist threatened me, unless I was telling the truth, because they had some other information that I didn’t know they were at all, or that they were true, that I could not tell the truth, that I could be this person and then I could go to jail, and that I just — I remember this case — that my words — could only be that your Jacob could be one year without a father.” So, look, not even the mob threatens in a direct way to keep the child fatherless, or to put him away for bars or even possibly liquidate him. Look, theMaribor criminals allow themselves to speak to some of the witnesses there, that if they don't tell everything in truth, which is so clear in itself that it's a crime if you tailor your confession in court, they'll explicitly let him know that he's going to lose his father because he's going to be in jail. Now, look, these are the beastly pressures that Zvezdan Radonjić spoke of. This judge is now, I would say, strongly shaken by this ivory tower and it is right that this ivory tower also begins to sit down with this parliamentary inquiry, so that on these foundations of cleansing, disclosures of things that are unacceptable for the democratic structure of Slovenia to be illuminated in the right light. I think that this fourth parliamentary inquiry in this reference is more than necessary in order for more to be revealed. If then, on the basis of the results of this report, a complementary legislation could also be adopted, which would put Slovenian justice in a better light, so that citizens would also be more confident, we have done a great deal. At the end of the report, I hope that those who have participated in this political assassination of the former Mayor of Maribor and in any other case who will prove that, if they are so honest in their mental sphere, they will also admit their mistakes and the authorities will be sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the debate, in which Mr Marjan Maučec is also given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I'm gonna act like my status here today. I'm not a Parliamentarian, but I'm invited here, so I won't be so succulent, because some of them almost played a little bit of fairy tales and bass on the State Council that gave this investigation. You probably know that this is the second investigation in 27 years proposed by the Council of State, then I think that this information needs to be taken seriously so that we do not play with this, that it is felt in the State Council, that something is wrong, that this instrument, which we have on the basis of Article 97 of the Constitution, needs to be activated. We did it and nothing else. Even if we didn't write everything in there, it doesn't hold. This word “second” means everything. Franc Kangler doesn't matter at all in this investigation because he won in all matters. He won. The survivors ate such and other traumas, family, health, financial, but that's not essential. The point is to establish the political responsibility of those who do such things. Let's write, how do we know what the investigative commission should do? I wouldn't sign a paper like that! Or should I write that you go drive a car and you have to follow traffic signs. The Commission of Inquiry has a constitution and legislation and you will respect it. You've already had more than 10 investigative committees and your legal services, and everyone knows how to handle it. That's what you're gonna do. What's the point of the problem? In this word “second”! Because the pressure on Members is being exerted on the media by those who do not now know where they participated in other procedures. Those political Februaryes who actually steal your reputation and the name that put pressure on the judges, prosecutors who now do not know what procedures will be introduced, and those who do not sleep well and those who do the media lynching the degradation of the State Council, and some Members agree. Let me put it this way, firsthand; all those who dealt with the State Council, from Virant, the Golobic, then happened to them that they had not come to this place and could no longer enter this place because they were no longer elected. Because everyone in the country has to deal with what they're responsible for, and that's the whole point. And thank God, the prosecutors and the judges spoke, but that's what she said. When the prosecutor or the judge speaks of political pressure before your investigative commission, it is a procedural nature and it will make this country democratic again, and above all it will restore you to power. Because you are the one who has been elected from the people, you are the highest authority; you have the power over everything that you, of course, need to use properly, if not, then you lose out on the elections. But others can play with it. That's why those working from behind have to take the masks off. Not all will be able to do this, but also those who will succeed — you have to clean up these masks because if not, others will put these masks up. Let them come to the elections, let them win the elections, and then let them rule this people, not from behind. These prosecutors, these judges are in big trouble because they have some pressure, they have some past, and someone is manipulating them, and you need to figure that out. You will not have to find out everything because it is illusory, but it will be enough to come on a day and you will also probably scare some, and the power will come back to the people, so to speak, to you as the chosen ones, and in this way we will restore the reputation of politics, because politics must be the first name of the country, not somewhere. First, politics must be the most valuable, and then the farmer must continue to be all the others who can learn. Since you can't learn politics, you can't. You can't learn farming. It's a mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Since I see that there is no interest, I conclude the debate. On the basis of Article 4, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote in favour of the Parliamentary Inquiry into the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to participate in the preparation and execution of political and criminal prosecutions against the former Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and the member of the State Council of Slovenia, France Kangler and others, on the suspicion that the proceedings against the former Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and the member of the State Council of Slovenia, France Kangler and other severely violated and unlawful provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Criminal Code and the Law on the State Council, and the determination of the alleged illegal management and management of certain police records. The content of the parliamentary inquiry request is defined in the request of the State Council of 12 June 2019 and in the act authorising the parliamentary investigation of 8 July 2019 which you received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it as soon as possible to the Council. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is an effigy of the law on changes to the law on medical activity. The draft law was tabled by Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Mag. Branislav Rajić. At its 3rd meeting, on 26 June 2019, the Health Committee considered the draft law as a working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are therefore moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Nada Brinovšek gets the word on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u34	Good day to you all! Only two members from the coalition Party of the modern centre proposed amending the Act on Pharmacy Activities, proposing amendments to the legal regime of Galenian medicinal products and repealing the current ban on the vertical connections of pharmacies with wholesalers. The current law provides that a Galenian medicinal product can only be produced if there is no industrial medicinal product with the same efficiency on the market and that the proposer considers that this provision of the law is completely inconclusive and unconstitutional. The second amendment concerns the current ban on vertical links in the drug chain. According to the applicable pharmacy law, drug wholesalers and also manufacturers of medicinal products should not be linked in any way. The Lek Act 2016 provides that the end of this year will expire a transitional period in which pharmacies should implement a vertical ban, that is, sell their drug wholesalers — of course, if they do — to terminate or radically change their activities. I would like to point out that such a provision of the articles in the law was adopted in the previous term, of which members of the coalition were also proposing this amendment. The current Act on Pharmacy is precisely at the moment due to a number of provisions in the constitutionality assessment procedure before the Constitutional Court and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is no time before the decision of the Constitutional Court for any changes. The amendment was opposed by the Ministry of Health, the State Council, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines, the Pharmacy Chamber and, last but not least, the coalition from which the applicants come. At the same time, we may be reluctant to ask the question of whose interest the signatories have made this request for amendment of the law, perhaps in the interest of two Slovenian wholesalers with medicines affected by the law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. The Pharmacy Act, as we know today, was adopted in 2016 and says that the purpose of the pharmacy activity is to ensure quality and effective supply of medicines and other products to support and maintain health and to advise on their safe, correct and effective use by both patients and healthcare professionals. In the view of the applicants, some difficulties are expected to arise in the current law, as some provisions are intended to be unconstitutional and inadequate, which could lead to serious damage in their view. The applicants are allegedly resolved by the constitutionality of the law in a way that: firstly, eliminates the unequal position of Galenic medicinal products, and secondly, to eliminate the prohibition of so-called vertical connections. The main purpose and importance of Galenic medicinal products is to complement the range of industrially manufactured medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia where there is a legitimate need. It is clear from the profession that Galenic medicinal products are not and cannot be substituted for medicines manufactured by industry. Galenic medicines are medicines needed by certain patients and are not manufactured or marketed by industry in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the profession, patients should first have access to industrially manufactured medicinal products that meet higher quality requirements compared to gallen products and only when they are not on the market for comparable industrial medicinal products can patients access galenically manufactured medicinal products. The abolition of the prohibition of vertical links as defined in Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities could, in the opinion of the profession, the Ministry and the Government, have a significant negative impact on the network of public pharmacies. All of these actors oppose the abolition of the ban on vertical connections and point out that if these links are closed, there would be a threat to the professional independence of pharmaceutical workers and the economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists. If we look at our neighbouring countries, we also find that both Austria and Germany have an established ban on vertical connections, and the Eastern European countries are gradually reintroducing the ban on vertical connections because they have come to the conclusion that their system is collapsing and undermining. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that there is a need to maintain and provide a public network of pharmacies that will provide our citizens and citizens with affordable and quality medicines and counselling. However, we are aware that there may be some problems in the implementation of the law, but we are of the view that the novelties of the pharmacy law need to be pursued in a broader and deeper way, so we propose that any problems found and disagreements be resolved, but this removal must be carried out in a way that will involve all interested public and professional stakeholders in the drafting of the content of the law, and that in the end we will arrive at a legal material that will not create inconsistencies and will provide our citizens with a quality and publicly accessible network of medicines that will offer quality and affordable medicines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Ambassadors Möderndorfer and Rajić proposed an amendment to remove the prohibition of vertical connections in the direction of a pharmacy-trader. The fact is that some would benefit directly from such a novelty is also the fact that, now that the existing situation is preserved, someone else will benefit. Public-owned wholesalers will be sold and the market will be subordinated to the private sector. In Levika we proposed an amendment allowing vertical connections for public pharmacies to maintain some minimal control over the events and public grosites in municipal property. You overstepped this amendment; of course it was not perfect, but it indicated the direction of a possible solution to the situation. And what is the situation? What's it really about? This is a matter of medicines and money, a billion-dollar pharmaceutical industry that has cost the product production to an absurdly low level, while recording record profits comparable only to bank profits – the price of the product production is 8% of their sales price. And it's about the industry, which is the results of analyses and research that they don't want to do, bury and cover; for the industry that orders drug testing and studies and pays as well as tobacco, you know. This is an industry that has not developed a new antibiotic in 30 years, because they simply stopped research in this area in the 1980s – not because it would not be necessary, but because it simply did not pay off. Antibiotics are taken after two weeks, not continuously. And yes, that's why antibiotics for capitalism are not interesting because, unlike the market, they actually work. Furthermore, it is an industry whose representatives meet at annual conferences, where they discuss how they will approach doctors and influence their decisions. Tickets to these conferences also cost 4 000 euros. And last but not least, it's an industry that targets and buys doctors. Krka spent almost a million euros on Slovenian doctors and medical organizations last year, and Lek and Novartis spent as much as 2.2 million euros. They don't buy research, they don't buy development – they buy doctors and what these doctors sign, and they break medical independence, they collapse the quality of healthcare, and they disable universal and solidarity health policy because it's capital, profit and competition logic. This law is therefore not so much a Member of the Möderndorfer and his friends, nor is it the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Farmadent, Salus or the Ledadoles. In the final stage, it's not even about vertical integration; it's all about this. We have a sector where knowledge and opportunities for development, reproduction and distribution are more than enough in line with the health needs of the population, for a sector that is key to public health. It is a matter of exempting the entire pharmaceutical activity from the market and placing it among the services of general interest and leading it in line with needs. This would do something for public health, for the universality and coverage of public health, but would deprive capitalists of the market and deprive them of their profits, which is not what liberal policy wants, and therefore hides behind the city's legal form, behind international treaties and obligations and therefore threatens them horribly with the European Court of Justice and sanctions. The pharmaceutical industry needs to be fully divided, as it will only serve the needs of everyone in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! Pharmacy is a public service and part of healthcare. Its primary purpose is to protect public health and to provide adequate care for medicines, medical devices and healthcare products. Also, pharmacists actively provide professional and advisory services for patients. This contributes to greater patient safety, reduced health complications and lower treatment costs. Whether a pharmacy is carried out within the framework of a public establishment or a private concession, it is a highly regulated activity both in Slovenia and in the European Union, and precisely because of the high level of regulation, there is a likelihood that competition between pharmacies is lower and thus prices higher. In Slovenia, there are 24 public pharmacies operating at the primary level, totalling 338 organizational units. Pursuant to current legislation, pharmacists shall not directly or indirectly establish or direct legal entities engaged in the activity of trafficking in medicinal products and medical devices. According to the applicant, this provision is inappropriate, since there is no reason why the public pharmacy should not set up a so-called wholesale company. Furthermore, the applicant states that in Slovenia the real market for medicines does not exist at all, but is dominated by oligopol. The provision prohibiting vertical links should also be contrary to the Constitution, which prohibits and restricts illegal competition and competition in Article 74, paragraph 3. The proposer wants a rational and smooth implementation of the pharmacy activity, which would be achieved by abolishing the ban on vertical connections. Most Member States of the European Union allow horizontal integration or integration into specialised trade, while vertical integration in general is not allowed. Among countries with least regulated pharmacy activities is Ireland, where vertical connections are allowed, but there is a high number of private pharmacies. First, vertical link is allowed in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and neighbouring Austria. There are vertical integrations, though possible, but they are limited. The question of vertical connection is therefore complex and multilayered. The public competition agency thus notes that the proposal for a law deals with the issue of vertical links to a non-systemic approach. The applicant does not provide an economic analysis on wholesale markets which the Agency considers necessary. In the SAB, we attach the view that systemic rather than ad hoc solutions are needed in the field of pharmacy activities and that the public sector must be protected against private monopolies. Work in pharmacy activities must be separated from activities aimed only at making profits. We also need to maintain the system so that anyone can own the pharmacy. Since this bill is also an intervention in local self-government, it makes sense to take into account the recommendations of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia in the course of the amendments. As regards the production of Galenic medicinal products, the applicant considers that the current regulation of the situation of Galenic medicinal products is unconstitutional. The manufacturers of Galenic medicinal products are expected to be in an unequal position with other producers of the same medicinal products. The Galenic medicinal product can only be given if there is no industrial medicinal product with the same active substance on the market. Also, the issuance of Galenic medicines in a pharmacy or laboratory is limited to 50,000 packs per year. Galenic medicines are less regulated than industrial medicines, which means that the patient’s safety may be reduced. And most importantly, Galenic medicines are already essentially intended for retail transport. The distinction between industrial and Galenic medicinal products is in practice justified by public health reasons and this should be maintained. In the SAB, we welcome every step towards eliminating the anomalies in the existing Pharmacy Act, but we cannot regulate them on the basis of a poorly substantiated proposal by just two Members. It is also worth waiting for the Constitutional Court to decide whether, among other things, the provisions governing the prohibition of vertical connections and the situation of Galenian medicinal products are indeed contrary to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Your Honor! At the time of the consideration of the proposed amendment to the Law on Pharmacy, the debate at the Health Committee showed that the pharmacy activity is the one where huge amounts of public money are flowing and for which there are a lot of interested people, and we would like to make this money available. In the debate, the novel proposal's own proponent has repeatedly mentioned that we are actually talking about money and not medicines. However, where such high amounts of money are available, we are talking about some 750 million euros a year, there are, of course, lobbyists who want at least part of this money cake, often using measures that could be considered illegal. This was also discussed at the Committee's meeting by the amendment's proposer, who explained that, following the introduction of the proposal, he had been pressured by the bigogerists, who, if adopted this proposal, had been severely affected by the new regulation. Even a threat was involved, which we believe is unacceptable. In the Desus Group, we have not changed our view in this mandate that vertical connections should be cut off, so we have not decided to support the proposal before us. We believe that the current regime is appropriate because it follows a European legislative and professionalised system. According to our assessment, the lifting of the ban on vertical links between drug business operators and drug manufacturers would make it difficult to ensure and afford access to quality, safe, effective and tested medicines without any economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists, which is estimated by the Desus Group as the most important mission of pharmacies following the interests of public health protection. Regardless of our decision to vote against the proposed amendment to the Pharmacy Act on the Committee, we were still touched by the many worrying things we heard at the meeting, both by the proposer and by other discussers. It is even suspected that the Ministry of Health employs people who are under the influence of wholesalers who currently have the largest market shares in the Slovenian drug market. I have already mentioned the threats posed by the applicant, and we have also heard various forms of blackmail and pressure on pharmacists. Such behaviours are considered inadmissible by the Desus Group and must, of course, be notified immediately to the law enforcement authorities to investigate the merits of such charges. At the same time, we have come from everything we have said at the meeting of the Committee to realize that the pharmacy activity and relations within it are extremely complex, so in our Group we believe that the Ministry must react, investigate and examine all the issues that have opened up during the debate. We expect that the next proposal for the amendment of the Pharmacy Act, perhaps even the Medicinal Products Act, will come from the competent ministry and will contain good solutions for all the problems that have emerged during the discussion at the meeting of the mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. As the last position, Mrs Lidija Ivanuš will be presented on behalf of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you. Your Honor! The main point is that the law has been prepared in the interest of one mayor, who obviously wants to continue to have vertical connections between pharmacists and wholesalers and manufacturers of medicines. The fact is that, on the basis of an existing law in the EU, the general recognised pharmaceutical practice is consistently separated by the Medicinal Products Act as well as the applicable Act on Pharmacy. With today's proposal, it is clear that the applicant unfortunately does not know this area. The Act on Pharmaceutical Activities cannot partially regulate the problems of Galenic medicinal products, as it is based on a special provision in the Medicinal Products Act. Among other things, because the marriage is not professionally prepared, we did not support it. The Medicinal Products Act also provides that a pharmacy may produce more Galenic medicinal products on the basis of prior authorisation if there is no industrial product on the market that is included in the list of essential medicinal products or in the list of essential medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia. Today's proposed changes in the number of manufactures of Galenic medicinal products are now in force, but in the Medicinal Products Act. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Pharmacy has overlooked the essential professional difference between the manufacture of Galenic medicinal products, good practice for the manufacture of Galenic medicinal products, and the manufacture of industrial medicines, good manufacturing practice. Unfortunately, the proposer is not familiar with the substantive regulation of such an area. It is sad that such bad professional suggestions can come before us in the first place. In this case, it is not so much a profession, but a purely interestingly politically prepared amendment to the law, which, if adopted, would be unacceptable to interfere with the system of legislation in this area. After all, the level of production of industrial medicinal products is significantly different and more difficult than the production of Galenic medicinal products, and the requirements are therefore significantly different. On the basis of the one mentioned in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that there is a significant difference between gallenic medicinal products and industrially manufactured medicinal products, and therefore the proposal for equalisation from a professional point of view is brought to the limit of absurdity. The proposal did not take into account the aspect of the EU's profession, professional guidelines and legislation and proposed amendments contrary to the Medicinal Products Act. Also now, on the basis of the law in force, as already mentioned, more Galenic medicines can be produced — more than 50,000 units per year. The proposer also proposes an amendment to the prohibition of vertical links in the context of the marketing of medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia, referring to the restriction of competition, where it notes that the introduction of a vertical link makes it possible for significantly more drug traders. This proposed vertical link, however, forces the pharmacy system within one vertical primary supply of pharmaceutical products in the interest of the wholesale part of the vertical link, thereby placing all medicines on the market in an unequal position. Nor does it argue that the prices of medicinal products are based on a margin, since the margin system applies only to products sold free of charge, food supplements and other pharmaceutical and medical products. The current legislation in the Republic of Slovenia allows the establishment of an unlimited number of drug trades, which is an essential condition for establishing competition and reducing prices. Any vertical link, however, from an economic point of view, forces the professional worker within the link to the primary issue of those medicinal products that are in the interest of the vertical system. In view of all the above, it is a political law. Such laws should not come about, for the rule of law violates the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION OF THE USE OF TRADE AND RELATED PRODUCTS. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with first-signed Jernej Vrtovac. At its 13th urgent meeting, on 1 July 2019, the Health Committee considered the draft law as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Miha Kordiš gets the word to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. In New Slovenia, they often add as an ink in their performances that an abstract individual knocked on their sleeves and poured out their hearts with a story that, by accident, supports their political agenda. Well, this time Mr. Vrtovac was knocked on the sleeve by the tobacco industry, not just the MP of Vrtovac – you have contributed 13 Members of LMŠ, 9 Members of SMC, 7 Members of SD, 5 Members of the SAB party and 2 Members of Desus. Ladies and gentlemen, they bought you. Tobacco lobbyists have brought you information about a law that would delay the introduction of a single packaging, packaging that has proven to reduce the number of smokers in existence and is effective in preventing adolescents from even starting smoking. They brought you false information, and you took it for your own. Because a single packaging works. It works because the color of the box is honey because the inscription is boring and the pictures are disgusting. And you know it. When the representative of Reynolds Tobacco, the second largest tobacco company in the United States, asked if anyone was smoking in his company, he smiled and said: “We leave smoking to the poor, the young, the black and the stupid.” And you also thought of us as stupid when you wrote that a single package had no effect and then, as a second argument, stated that it had a negative effect on the economy. You forgot to add that the costs of the consequences of smoking in Slovenia are four times higher than the excise duty collected. In addition to buying you, you have proven again that you care more about the profits of the private than about public health. A few minutes ago, at the previous point, I briefly explained how capital deals with medicines, and now I can only find that poison is not treated differently. For capital, poison and medicine are just the same thing – goods. There is no significant effect on the patient; profit is important. As with doctors, pharmaceutical companies lobby, so do tobacco corporations. At one point, 20,000 doctors in the United States miraculously discovered that Lucky Strike is helping to make things worse. In addition to doctors, the tobacco industry is lobbying with journalists, researchers, lawyers, culturers and its time even athletes. Thus, some athletes once explained on television that smoking calms them before the onset. We can also recall an economist from Harvard who explained that smoking reduces costs and is economically effective. Why? After his early death, we save our pensions. So even in the case of the tobacco industry, we see very well how any professional autonomy and independence falls before the interests of capital and the interests of profit. Fortunately, the pressure of the public, the profession, the Ministry of Health, the World Health Organization and the Left has fallen — a shameful law fell on the committee. Six Members voted for him, and against eight, which is still a beautiful, too beautiful indicator of how far you are, ladies and gentlemen, yet ready to go to the glimmer of big tobacco lobbyists. The real message of this law, however, is how easy capital approaches and affects a good part of the national assembly. The communication of this law is the interconnection between capital and urban policy. The class interest of capital has its direct representation in state policy. In this country, smokers are not a problem in this society and we do not have a problem with smokers — the problem is with hypocrites in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! The proposal for amendments to the Tobacco and Related Products Restriction Act raised a lot of dust on the political floor and in public. In the SAB Group, we have contributed to the signatures under the legislative proposal in order to allow the debate to begin on this issue. We also well assessed the establishment of a specific budget fund to raise awareness of the harmfulness of smoking. It would be a source of excise duty on tobacco products. From the Ministry of Finance’s first responses, it could be concluded that the dedicated budget fund had support and then the Government’s official opinion stated otherwise. However, the proposal for amendments also includes a disputed postponement of the introduction of a single packaging, which has encountered sharp criticisms and negative reactions by both professional and non-governmental organisations as well as the public and the government during the treatment. It has clearly turned out that there are no valid arguments for the postponement of the single tobacco packaging, so we have decided not to support the bill. Allow me to briefly sum up what has contributed to this decision. First of all, the World Health Organisation states that a single packaging is an effective measure to reduce the use of tobacco products. It is one of the most cost-effective measures to reduce the burden of chronic non-communicable diseases. The graphically attractive packaging encourages nonsmokers, especially adolescents and young adults, to start smoking. A single non-attractive package has the opposite effect. Also in the public opinion survey carried out by the Ministry of Health in 2017 and 2018, it has been shown that the introduction of a single package has the majority support of people. As a result, we see no reason why the introduction of a single tobacco packaging would be delayed for three years, as proposed by the proposer. While it is true that the lower sales of tobacco products represent a lower inflow of excise duties into the state budget, the Union of Slovenian Anti-cancer Associations reports that the cost of long-term cancer and other chronic diseases would fall much further by preventing smoking from falling than would be the result of the lower sales of tobacco products. And that's a fact that counts, and that's what everyone should have in front of their eyes. In the SAB, we believe that public health and the creation of non-smoking culture is above the interests of the tobacco industry. Let me get on with it. The measure of a single tobacco packaging is already legal or is in the process of being examined by Parliament or the government in 37 countries around the world. In Australia, where a single tobacco packaging has been in force since 2012, the prevalence of smoking among people aged 14 and over has decreased over 34 months before and after the imposition of this measure. The first data from France, Ireland and the United Kingdom also show the positive effects of the single packaging and the reduced prevalence of smoking. Lobby contacts between certain Members and lobbyists of the tobacco industry have also turned out to be the case. The Anti-Corruption Commission has taken into account suspicious circumstances in the production of material. Let me stress that no one has influenced the SAB Members, and we are not in any way related to the interests of the tobacco industry. I believe that the responsibility of our Members is to protect people's health and well-being, so we must strongly oppose the commercial interests of unhealthy industries. The tobacco industry is certainly one of them. As a representative of the people, we have a moral responsibility not to take measures that are not in the interests of human health. Therefore, in the SAB Group, we do not support the bill, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for a new Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products, on which we will not vote today, sought to ensure that the introduction of a single packaging was suspended for three years and that the measure would not enter into force until 1 January 2023. As a reason for the proposed three-year delay in the introduction of a single packaging, the applicants indicated that they could obtain additional information during this extended period on the impact of the measure on the reduction of consumption of tobacco products and whether it had negative effects in terms of increasing illicit trade and reducing public financial revenues, falsifying products and thus having a negative impact on the health of tobacco users. During the debate on the home working body, it appeared that most of the civil and health professions present were not in favour of such changes, as they are aware that the single packaging is not as ineffective as they tried to show the bill's proponents during the discussion. The fact is that packaging is a way of advertising tobacco products, and when packaging becomes unattractive, it also loses part of marketing power. Because an attractive packaging is a means of effectively representing the image of a tobacco brand, especially among children, teens and young people. It has more reach than advertising, and as described by representatives of the National Institute for Public Health, it is a so-called silent seller, since it is the most pronounced link with the consumer or way of communication between the manufacturer and the consumer. During the debate, we also heard warnings about the possible lawsuits of the tobacco industry against our country and the financial consequences of such an action. As we look at the experience of countries that have already introduced a single packaging and have already faced such lawsuits, the lawsuits have always ended in favour of a country that hoped to resist tobacco lobbying. We have also heard quite a few concerns about the effectiveness of the single packaging. If this is really as ineffective as its opponents claim, why such a rebellion against it? If we just look at numbers from some countries that have had a single packaging measure in place for some time now, we can see that in Australia, France and the United Kingdom, the proportion of smokers among adults and especially young people, who are in fact also the target population of such anti-smoking measures, has decreased significantly. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we believe that if we look at public health, there is no way that fiscal targets, i.e. to collect as much excise duty as possible, prevail over those to improve the health of the population and reduce health costs for individuals and society. We must not forget that the direct and indirect costs of cancer and other chronic diseases and premature deaths resulting from smoking far exceed the possible lower profit of the country, which could be due to a decrease in the sales of tobacco products. While in Slovenia we already record the benefits of the current law, the prevalence of smoking between young people and young adults, which I repeat, is a key target group of the current law, has declined. The biggest changes are recorded in the prevention of the start of smoking among adolescents, as the proportion of those who have ever smoked has declined statistically significantly between 13 and 15 years of age and 17 years of age, which is very encouraging. These are the results of research carried out by the National Institute for Public Health before and after the introduction of the new law in 2018. According to the assessment of the Desus Group, an important part of these amendments can be attributed to the measures of the current law, so it would be very harmful for us to adopt a proposal for a novel whose treatment is completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mrs Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you. Your Honor! The main purpose of the proposed law is to extend for three years the transitional period for the implementation of the provisions laying down the single packaging. Such a law makes no sense, for if we postpone the entry into force for three years, we do nothing under the line. The single packaging measure is only a fraction of the mosaic of the entire anti-smoking policy, which will, however, contribute modestly but significantly to the reduction of smoking, especially between children and adolescents. The tobacco industry has always used tobacco packaging as an influential advertising and marketing tool. The final medium for communication of the entire tobacco industry with smokers is exclusively a bundle itself, so how important is the appearance of this package. The aim of the single packaging is to ensure that consumers are sufficiently informed of the danger of tobacco products by means of health warnings and to prevent tobacco industry from being misled by advertising and promotional tactics. The single appearance of the packaging reduces the attractiveness of the product and consequently increases the visibility of the health warnings and reduces the perceived perception of the minor harmfulness of a particular product based on the appearance of the packaging. It is a standardised packaging for all brands of these products, prescribed form, colour and other characteristics of the outer and inner surface of each package. The form, position and content of the text that may be printed on the outer packaging of these products and the appearance of individual cigarettes shall also be determined. The measure to introduce a single package is intended primarily for young people, as less attractive packaging is supposed to discourage them from smoking at all, or, in other words, protects them from taking this deadly habit at all times. This measure undoubtedly provides for a higher level of public health protection, as it constitutes a measure to reduce supply. The applicant's argument that the introduction of a single packaging would constitute a violation of the intellectual property rights of tobacco producers is insurmountable, as there is already a huge international case law on this subject, where it has been decided not to interfere with industrial property, as there is a strong public interest in adopting this measure. Such arguments mean only the intimidation of the legislative branch of government and closely follow the interests of tobacco industries. As mentioned above, with a single packaging, where the brand will be signed, the customer will be able to identify the product with certainty. In this way, the manufacturer retains the right to use a properly registered brand. Finally, I would also like to stress the moral aspect of the regulation, since children will be saved an addiction that lasts their whole lives, and children and adults will be protected from premature death, suffering and disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u54	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! The power of the tobacco industry does not choose between the health of an individual and society, but works only for its own good. This tobacco industry has undoubtedly affected 38 Members who have signed a request to amend the tobacco law. The Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products was adopted without a vote against 2017 and this Act prescribes a single packaging of tobacco products. This is supposed to happen in Slovenia or on the market 1. 1. 2020. Applicants, the right signatories to the amendments to the tobacco law, have postponed the application of the single packaging of tobacco products for three years, but have not presented us with substantial reasons for this proposal at the meeting of the home labour body itself. I will say that it is a sad fact that, at the meeting of the Health Committee of the Mother, we have addressed the demand in the interest of the tobacco industry, of course, to the detriment of the health of our citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask what is more important to the proposer of the amendment of this law, saying whether the health of our people is more important or whether the state budget is loaded and the strong interests of the tobacco lobby. Of course, we have not succumbed to lobbyist pressures in the Slovenian Democratic Party, so we have not contributed signatures to the Health Committee's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION LAW ON THE MANAGEMENT OF PAYMENT SERVICES FOR BUDGETARY USERS, A SHORT-TERM PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Sashi Jazbec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u56	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for adoption. It transposes Directive 2014/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on the issuance of electronic invoices in public procurement into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the Directive, contracting entities must receive and process the e-invoices of economic operators if the e-invoices comply with the European standard for the issuance of e-invoices and with any of the syntaxes set out in each of the implementing decisions of the European Commission published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The obligations of the debtors relating to the implementation of the Directive will be regulated in one place, by the law before you. In doing so, we have taken into account the fact that a higher percentage or 95% of all contracting entities are budget users, who are already bound by the existing law, which requires them to receive accounts exclusively in electronic form. Since a smaller proportion of contracting entities, such as public economic institutions, public undertakings, entities with acquired special or exclusive rights in the field of concessions and public-private partnerships, do not have budgetary user status, the proposed amendment of the law also extends to this category of contracting entities, namely in the work relating to compulsory reception and processing of e-invoices if they comply with the European standard. The Directive in Article 1 allows Member States to provide for an exemption for electronic invoices issued on the basis of the implementation of contracts falling within the area of defence and security. It is therefore envisaged that the obligation to receive e-invoices, if they comply with the European standard, shall not apply to e-invoices issued on the basis of contracts concluded on the basis of a law governing public procurement in the field of defence and security, provided that contracts for which the execution of procurement procedures would result in the transmission of information which would be contrary to the essential security interests of the Republic of Slovenia, including contracts for military equipment to be taken to protect those interests and for contracts intended to carry out intelligence and anti-intelligence activities, provided that such orders contain classified information in accordance with the law or must be accompanied by specific security measures. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated as a mother's labour by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u58	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 12th meeting, on 28 June this year, the Finance Committee considered as its parent working body the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the following material, namely the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, all five articles of the proposal. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the purpose of the proposal for a law transposing Directive 2014/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the issuance of electronic invoices in public procurement. The Directive also allows Member States to lay down exceptions to electronic invoices issued on the basis of the implementation of contracts falling within the area of defence and security. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that she had pointed out in her opinion the issue of legal certainty as regards the title, in particular for contracting entities which do not have the status of the budgetary user, and said that the other comments in the written opinion were taken into account in the amendments tabled. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance said that the Commission supported the proposal of the law. There was no debate between Members and Members of the Committee on Finance on the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Marko Bandelli has the floor to present to us the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! Your Honor! In 2010, the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users entered into force in the Republic of Slovenia. He introduced the use of e-accounts and a single entry or exit point where users of the national and municipal budgets send or receive accounts. Slovenia has thus become one of the first Member States of the European Union to introduce e-invoicing on the basis of an online application. Business digitisation is gradually being introduced in all EU Member States and in the world. The process ensures that new procedures and online applications are adapted as well as greater legal certainty, as only the implementation of the rules requires more specific legal solutions. It is therefore necessary and useful to amend existing rules. The practice of e-invoicing in the European Union and the world is not uniform. The latter is due to legal uncertainty, excessive complexity and additional costs incurred by economic operators. The uneven regulation of the economic operator limits the implementation of cross-border public procurement and entry into new markets. The new Law 1A, which is before us today, eliminates the inequity of the EU market in the way that it brings into our legal order the European e-invoicing directive in public procurement. The Directive lays down uniform European standards and requires EU Member States to order all contracting authorities to adopt and process e-invoices. In a small part, the novelty exceptionally extends the validity of the law also to contracting entities which do not have budgetary user status. The existing law already obliges contracting entities, of which approximately 95 per cent represents budgetary users, to be obliged to receive accounts in purely electronic form. Since a small proportion of contracting entities do not have budgetary user status, such as public institutions, the proposed amendment extends exceptionally to this category of contracting entities, namely the work relating to the obligation to receive and process e-invoices if these are in line with European standards. The proposed legislative supplement lays down sanctions for contracting entities and responsible persons who unduly refuse to receive and process e-invoices issued in accordance with European standards. This introduces greater legal certainty for all economic operators and obliges budgetary users to respect legal provisions and standards. The law will also apply to subcontractors' accounts which, under the Public Procurement Act, are entitled to direct payment by the contracting authority. The main operator will thus adapt the e-accounts to the subcontractor’s accounts. The exception will apply only to e-invoicing or public procurement in the field of defence and security, as it is a sensitive area in terms of the protection of classified data. We support the proposed amendment in the SAB Group. We estimate that the promotion and development of e-business has several positive effects: the further development of e-government e-government, which is reflected in lower costs and lower administrative burdens, brings about improvements in the competitiveness and legal security of economic operators, removes the legal, technical and other obstacles that arise from the incompatibility of EU Member States’ national standards in e-invoicing, and also the proposed novelties protect economic operators who receive unwarranted rejection of e-invoices. From now on, unjustified refusals of accounts will be subject to fines. The positive effects highlighted coincide with the objectives of the SAB, as the abolition of bureaucracy on the one hand and the stimulus of the economy on the other hand will boost economic growth. Higher economic growth and a fuller budget make it easier to achieve goals such as higher pensions, improving the lives of pensioners, quality and inclusive public health, better infrastructure, more jobs and so on. In the SAB Group we draw attention to another important aspect of the novel, this is a positive impact on the environment. As you know, in the SAB we were instigators of the right to drinking water in the Constitution. This has clearly proved that we appreciate the natural attributes of Slovenia. It is right that we seek to protect the environment at every step, including by adopting legal provisions restricting the use of paper and introducing e-business. The proposed novels in the SAB Group are unanimously supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u62	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! Promoting the development and diversification of electronic commerce as a form of paperless business that allows higher speed, greater efficiency and better transparency cannot be in the interest of companies alone, but also of state institutions. The Basic Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users is governed by the provision of payment and other services to direct and indirect users of state and municipal budgets, the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. It also regulates the register of budgetary users and the tasks and organisation of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. The transposition of the Directive on the issuance of electronic invoices in public procurement is expanding the application of this law. It also covers e-accounts received by entities which do not have the status of a budgetary user on the basis of contracts or other acts concluded on the basis of public contracts, concession contracts or contracts under the public-private partnership, but must fulfil the conditions for the status of the contracting entity laid down in the laws governing public procurement, concessions and public-private partnership. The budgetary users account for more than 95 % of all subscribers, while the subscribers for receiving the e-invoices also become public undertakings, public economic establishments, concessionaires and other public law entities that meet the conditions for the contracting authority laid down in the above-mentioned sectoral rules. In the Desus Group, we support the aim of putting in place a European standard for the issuance of e-invoices to domestic economic operators to lower entry barriers for entry into the internal market of the European Union, in particular in the implementation of cross-border public procurement and in the field of trade. The incompatibilities of the national standards and regulations of the Member States of the European Union governing the issuance of e-invoices will be addressed, which is a prerequisite for increasing the level of competitiveness and legal certainty throughout the market. These two essential reasons, the shortening of procedures and more precise and more easily accessible information on business conditions, convince us Members of the Desus Group that we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u64	Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, everyone else present in the Chamber, a lovely greeting! In the Slovenian National Party, we support any decommissioning of business operators or the removal of bureaucratic obstacles they face in their business. People need to be encouraged to work, not deterred from work. Whoever read the proposal for the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users found that its purpose was much better than its application. With this amendment, the obligation to receive and process e-invoices will apply to all contracting entities which are required to carry out public procurement in accordance with Slovenian and European legislation. This means that those business entities that have so far issued an invoice in paper form will have to send an e-account after a new one. This will be an additional cost for a business entity that has not issued such e-invoices so far. Despite the promotion of e-government and the economy, in practice we will not just say goodbye to paper documentation so quickly. Business operators and their accounting services still have too much. Although almost EUR 5 million of e-invoices have been exchanged through a single entry and exit point, I doubt that a certain proportion of these accounts does not exist in paper form either. They would not agree with the statement that business entities have lower costs of electronic commerce. This type of business has also increased costs. The storage of electronic documentation is much more expensive in electronic form than in physical form. I am also concerned that foreign business operators will be able to make much more use of the harmonisation of the European standard for the issuance of e-invoices than domestic companies. The question is how successful Slovenian business operators are in public procurement abroad. On the other hand, the Public Payments Authority is well aware that only Slovenian budget users place more than 4 billion euros a year abroad. Our health institutions are still supplying their material in millions of amounts in Cyprus, although there is no production there, but there are only wonderful beaches and post offices. Our expectation is that the Public Payments Authority will also exercise a supervisory function over budgetary users. The Management Board shall have a large number of data on the basis of which information-analytical functions, financial audits and payment turnover audits may be carried out. As already pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, new duties will indeed need to be pointed out to those contracting entities which are not budgetary users, such as public economic institutions, public undertakings, concessionaires, other public entities and other entities. It is clear from the material that the Public Payments Authority will present the law to the target groups. I urge the administration to do so in the context of free seminars. Only posting on the administration's website will not be enough. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Franc Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! The applicant submits that the proposed amendment to the Slovenian legal order transposes Directive 214/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the issuance of electronic invoices in public procurement, according to which issuers may send electronic invoices in accordance with the European standard for the issuance of electronic invoices to recipients in any EU Member State. This novelty is intended to improve the competitiveness and legal security of economic operators and to remove administrative, legal and technical barriers arising from the incompatibility of the national standards and regulations of the Member States of the European Union governing the issuance of electronic accounts. We will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented to us by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues! The proposed amendment transposes Directive 214/55 into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by applying the law to electronic accounts issued in accordance with the existing Slovenian e-SLOG standard, which is a uniform standardised form of e-invoice prepared by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and at the same time for other forms of e-invoices if they comply with the European e-invoice standard. Let's remember. The Republic of Slovenia was one of the first Member States to introduce e-invoicing through a single entry point with the Public Payments Authority, and from 2015 all budgetary users must receive accounts exclusively in electronic form. The aim of the Directive is to commit all categories of contracting entities, as defined by the European Union sectoral directives and by the Member States' sectoral laws, to adopt and process e-invoices. This will encourage the development of electronic commerce and allow Member States, contracting authorities and economic operators to generate significant savings, environmental impact and administrative burden reduction. At the same time, the competitiveness and legal security of economic operators will be improved and administrative, legal, technical and other obstacles created by the incompatibility of national standards and rules of the Member States will be addressed. The current incompatibility of national standards causes complexity, legal uncertainty and additional costs for economic operators using e-accounts in different Member States. The obligation to receive and process e-invoicing, if issued in accordance with the European e-invoicing standard, shall apply to all categories of contracting entities which are required to carry out public procurement under those provisions of the European Union and the regional laws of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the draft law defines a contracting entity as a common term for a contracting entity, as defined by the law governing procurement, or a candidate as defined by the law governing the award of concessions or a public partner, as defined by the law governing the public-private partnership. However, the obligation to receive e-accounts does not apply in certain cases to public procurement in the field of defence and security and to certain contracts intended to carry out information and counter-intelligence activities. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we support the further development of the e-government and the economy, and we will therefore support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u70	Good-bye, everybody! In the last decade, many countries, including Slovenia, have regulated the possibility and obligation to issue electronic accounts. Various standards have been developed for the so-called e-accounts, and this creates problems in the Single Economic Area of the European Union regarding connectivity, cross-border business and business in other Member States. This is why the EU Directive also requires greater harmonisation of the rules, particularly when it comes to public procurement. The Directive requires Member States to accept and issue e-invoices for public procurement. This has been the case in Slovenia since 2015, when the law in force has now been passed. Moreover, the applicable law requires all those who notify the contracting authorities of the supply of goods and services to issue electronic invoices for the delivered via the Public Payments Authority. Therefore, today's proposed changes do not have a major impact on the lives of people or on the business of authorities and businesses that are committed to public procurement. Amendments and additions to the law only provide a technical framework for issuers and recipients of accounts to ensure the standardisation of accounting documents, connectivity and facilitated cross-border transactions. In the SD Group of Members, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The payment bill was 20. 4. 2002 established Public Payments Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. It was established as a body within the Ministry of Finance. Its establishment laid the groundwork for the establishment of a new payment system, which should apply to all budget users of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, the tasks and organisation of the Administration for Public Payments and the system for the provision of payment services are governed by the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users. In order to be aware of the dimensions and importance of this area, it is worth noting that more than 25 million payment transactions were made within this system in 2018 alone. This means almost a 25% share of all payment transactions in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The essence of this system is that it greatly simplifies transactions between budgetary users and, on the other hand, it is undoubtedly cheaper than that of banks. It is estimated that the costs of these transactions would be higher than some EUR 16 million if they were carried out by banks. We have decided to introduce e-invoices into the payment turnover of budget users from a long time ago in 2010. With this decision, Slovenia has become one of the first Member States of the European Union to introduce e-invoicing. On the basis of the amendment of this Act, all budgetary users must receive accounts and accompanying documents exclusively in electronic form from 1 January 2015. Slovenia took an early approach already in 2017 to the preparation of budgetary users and other contracting entities for the implementation of the European e-invoicing directive 2014. The budgetary users must be required to receive their accounts and accompanying documentation in the form of e-accounts, of course if they are provided in the European standard EN 16931. This is a measure short for which it is called ROSE. A key result of this ROSE measure is that Slovenia is prepared to receive e-invoices in the EU standard. This ensures compliance with the European Directive on the issuance of e-invoices in public procurement, at the same time creating new possibilities for e-invoicing, while improving Slovenia's connectivity on the European Union's single digital market and removing market and trade barriers that have arisen as a result of various national rules and technical standards. However, since that Directive requires all contracting entities to impose an obligation to receive and process e-invoicing, this amendment extends exceptionally to contracting entities which do not have budgetary user status. It only spreads in cases where they implement contracts for the execution of public contracts, concession contracts and public-private partnership contracts. Sanctions are also provided for for in respect of non-compliance with the provisions of this Act. Slovenia or the budget users in Slovenia will therefore, following the amendment of this law, operate in the same way as before, with the already established European standard of e-invoice. Under the new regime, they will be joined by other entities implementing contracts for the execution of public contracts, concession contracts and contracts in the public-private partnership. However, for reasons of national security, MORS, Owl and ODS will in certain cases be able to avoid such a course of action. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby adjourn this agenda item and the 10th regular meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 14.10. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 13.41 and resumed at 14.09.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u74	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: agenda items 10, 3, 7, 5, 6, 2 and 4. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of payment services to budgetary users by means of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 11 July 2019, which was published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tasks and Powers of the Police, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr. Luka Moon, on behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. The following two laws, which are in the vote, namely the law on the duties and powers of the police and the law on aviation, both refer to the same thing, namely the exacerbation of the control and repression of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. They are talking about the introduction of control over all air passengers crossing Slovenia, Slovenian airports – annually, there are 1.7 million. All these passengers will be monitored from now on. Air companies will have to provide all the information about these passengers, from when they bought the plane ticket to where they sit, where they travel, where they travel, where they live, and so on, automatically relay it to the police. In short, all personal information is automatic to the police. This case is unjustified, unjustified and unnecessary, as shown by past data. In the first half of 2018, data on 369,000 passengers were similarly collected. Of these, five were found to be suspicious — 369 thousand. And among the five there were no terrorists who were supposed to prevent this law, but there were people with the following offences: illegal border crossings, drug smuggling — someone could have had a joint in his pocket — or embezzlement of documents. All these people would also be caught through a regular review of personal documents, X-rays and potential verification of drug and explosives smuggling, which has already been introduced at airports. In short, this is totally unnecessary. But what this creates and deepens is the society of some paranoia that we are in constant danger. This is how we walk in the steps of the United States, which are, say, 10 years ahead of us. They started with such measures after 2001, after terrorist attacks, but look where they are today. I can tell you two personal cases of two colleagues traveling to the United States. The first one has a Muslim name and wanted to go to New York for 10 days on vacation. She was called to the American Embassy only because of a Muslim name, where she was questioned, if she was married, and she said no, but they said no, if you're 30 years old, all Muslim women are married and have children and so on. In short, they came to the conclusion that she had been denied a visa and was invited to another hearing at the embassy if she wanted to go there, which she, of course, refused and cancelled. Other colleagues took the phone they had to unlock at the airport and searched for 10 minutes after her personal messages. We're not there yet, but with each such proposal, this is how we normalize the situation. In conclusion, Slavoj Žižek said a while ago in a joke that there was a little bit missing that old police state when you looked over your shoulder and saw the pointy guy in the back. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. By this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] We can stick to time limits. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Aviation Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thanks again. Since I didn't manage to communicate my last point before, I'm going to explain my voice one more time. Both laws, the law on the tasks and powers of the police and the aviation law do not yet send us where the United States or China are today, but they are tracking the way to make it normal. I wouldn't want to live in a society like China. I'll give you another case. In 2014, someone in Serbia hit someone on the road and then the Serbian police searched for him for about two, three months. They didn't get the man, but they got an indication that he flew to China on the plane, and they provided the Chinese authorities with his picture. The Chinese authorities received only a picture of this man between 1.3 and a few billion people in China within three days. Why? Because they've got cameras everywhere, and they've got all kinds of surveillance. It's a modern control society. Do you want to live there? I personally don't. And like he told Slava Zižek to repeat that last point [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u78	Dear Members, as you do not want to be disturbed when you present your position, how you will vote, let us also take this into account when Mr Luka Mesec speaks. Here you go, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u79	In Levica we absolutely oppose the establishment of this modern control society, which some want to open with these laws, by doubling the resources for the Owl provided for in the budget and so on. We are absolutely opposed to this. A while ago, Slavoj Žižek said in a joke that there was a little bit missing that good old police state — when you looked over your shoulder and saw a spike there, at least you knew you were being followed. Today, surveillance is much more perfidious. He's present, but invisible, because we don't even know when they're controlling us, but they're controlling us at every turn. We will, of course, vote against this law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members, would anyone like to explain how he will vote? No, no, no. Then I find that we are moving to a vote. We're voting. 81 Members and Members attended, 49 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 11 July 2019. This brings us to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 31. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I therefore note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. This brings us to the third reading of the draft law, where we find once again that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr. Luka Moon, Slavoj Žižek, perhaps again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you. This time there will be no Nightingale. We're talking about apartments, and I haven't seen you write anything on this. Housing policy in Slovenia has been unregulated for 30 years. We have completely neglected public construction of non-profit apartments, we have one of the smallest shares of non-profit apartments or social housing in Europe. As a result, most people have to resolve the housing issue on their own, because the country has failed to do so on its own. Which is mainly a problem for younger generations who have missed the law of Jazbinšk, and today they must either agree to rent clothes or rent an astronomical loan, which they pay back for more than ten years, to buy an apartment or think about moving to the mansard to their parents if they do not already move abroad, where we have better housing conditions in many cities and countries. We in Levica have committed that this will be one of our key areas in cooperation with the Government. In the agreement we wrote down a set of measures to improve housing policy, from the creation of conditions for public construction of non-profit rental apartments to the regulation of Airbnb, which increases prices by urban centres and tourist centres, to, after all, the regulation of the real estate market in this segment when we are talking about renting apartments. Today we confirm the first part of this package. Otherwise, it is not extensive, regulated by one thing, and it is that it determines the amount of commissions that can be charged by real estate agencies in the broadcasting or rental of dwellings where we limit: firstly, the costs that agents can charge to people who want to rent the apartment are limited to 150 euros, that is to say that they can't just wind up the price and ultimately charge the commission, even if they don't give up the apartment; secondly, we limit the amount of fees that they can charge to the renters, that is to say, 4% of the amount paid, which is an analogy by selling the apartment; thirdly, we prevent that the customer who has not hired the service from paying the bill in the end. In fact, this is what happens: the tenant, the owner of the apartment, hires a real estate agency to find him a tenant, finds the tenant, and in the end, this tenant, although he did not apply for a real estate agency service, also as the lessor, has to pay one rental agency. This is all regulated by this law, of course we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving to the last item of the 10th regular meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Procedure for Recognition of Professional Qualifications for Performing Regulated Occupations, Short-term Procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision were not tabled at the meeting of the assembly, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the draft law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 10th regular session of the National Assembly and wish you a pleasant weekend. Goodbye!
