ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u1	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for allowing us to have this debate. After all, you need a large majority for that. At the end of November, the PVV already mentioned the situation surrounding KLM and Air France. That was during an AO on aviation. Transferring funds from KLM to the parent holding company Air France has a major impact on KLM. We actually predicted the misery back then. I asked the Secretary of State months ago whether there should be a rescue plan or at least a rescue plan. 'Cause it's gonna go wrong. Apparently, I'm some kind of Nostradionus. I got right about Lelystad. I'm getting right on this, too. I usually get right in aviation files. So I predicted the misery. My group believes that KLM should never have been in French hands. Our blue swans are our national pride. A profitable and healthy company is immediately drawn down by a loss-making Air France. That should never have happened, but this is the situation we are in. Just a few hours ago, a message came out via ANP: "The discussion about KLM's independence within the Air France-KLM group is certainly not about planning to centralize cash management in Paris." Today the chairman of KLM's works council said: "This is just the beginning." That's exactly what I meant. We're not done with this. Air France can now say that the KLM is not going to skim and that it does not come up to KLM's greenhouse, but there are no guarantees. I really hear that from various agencies, and also from KLM itself. I'd like the Secretary of State to make a commitment to that guarantee. She can take care of that. The State is not only for 5.9% shareholder. Here is a secretary of state of the Dutch government. KLM is one of the largest private employers in our country. I'd almost say it's some kind of Siamese twin with Schiphol, with one beating heart. Schiphol is another very large private employer. They need each other, like a Siamese twin. After all, they engage in mutually reinforcing economic activities. They are inextricably linked and indispensable for each other. So the Secretary of State has to do something about this. Mr Elias of the VVD said in the AO that the Secretary of State could not do anything about this. He shared that opinion. Now Mr Elias of the largest coalition party is happy to say that the Secretary of State must take action. I am of course very grateful to him for that support. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to do everything possible to get the guarantee that Air France cannot get a hold of KLM's greenhouse. There are things she can do. This is really not too much to ask, not even as I put it. I only ask her to do everything within her capacity, together with the Dutch Government, although the Prime Minister must be involved. I ask her to contact her French colleague, her counterpart, as it is called by an official term. Make sure that there's mediation and that this can't happen anymore. We want a guarantee that this will not happen again in the future. Again, there are no guarantees. Air France has seen the pressure of the Dutch public through the Chamber and has quickly taken the first plane to reassure the people here. At least that's what people thought, but that's not what we're buying. I would also ask the government, through this Secretary of State, to ensure that the continuity of KLM, our pride and our blue swans, is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u2	The problem is that we have hesitated on this debate. That's not because we don't feel good about the KLM, and not because we don't think employment is interesting or important. Of course we do. However, this is a private company. So we must be careful not to sit on the entrepreneur's seat. Mr Graus spoke warmly about the KLM. We share that, of course. What he can do, however, he does not do. The KLM can only grow further if Schiphol can grow. Schiphol can only grow if Lelystad is built. And what does Mr Graus do? He's voting against Lelystad. If he can do anything concrete, he won't give up at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u3	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u4	These warm words by Mr Graus are worthless if he does not simply deliver butter to the fish by ensuring that Schiphol can grow and that the KLM can keep its pivotal function at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u5	This scares the hell out of me. We never voted against Lelystad. I have asked to investigate the feasibility and failure of Lelystad and predicted that it will soon be a financial embarrassment for which taxpayers will have to bleed. But when I asked for Schiphol to be extended to 600,000 flight movements, Mr Elias did not give home! He frustrated my motion to grow Schiphol to 600,000 movements. That's how it is! We do not want taxpayers' money to be spent in an airport that may not be viable because there is no support for the airlines. I talked to the board of directors of Schiphol. They can grow up to 600,000 movements. The VVD didn't support us in that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u6	Let us try not to turn it into a well-nuke game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u7	This is the truth!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u8	Ultimately, we are in the same interest: to ensure that the KLM remains properly maintained. But within the social-political context of the Netherlands, with the agreements made with all the municipalities around Schiphol, Schiphol can only really grow by transferring 70,000 flight movements to Lelystad in the long term. Mr Graus knows that as well as I do. When he looks at that realistically, he helps the KLM and Schiphol Airport by bringing it together and not just by speaking warm words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u9	Schiphol knows, KLM knows: I have argued for 600,000 flight movements and not for that terrible 510,000 from the Alders chord, which the VVD was still behind until recently. I've always said kick that Alders chord out the door and don't call Schiphol. I'm just for Schiphol, for KLM, for our blue birds. I have never put one straw in their way on behalf of my group. But I am happy about the following and we have to share it. We may have to file motions later. That is why I ask Mr Elias to put that party politics aside and let us fight together for the national interest, for our KLM, for our pride. Let's get together. Let it not be so that Mr Elias does not support me because I am a PVV man.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u10	I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert of the CDA. He's holding his maiden speech in this debate. That means he can't be interrupted in his first term. Mr Van Helvert, enjoy this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Limburg must separate itself from the Netherlands. Limburg must separate itself from the Netherlands and join the German Federation. This was decided on 19 July 1848 in the Bundestag. In that Bundestag there were among others two Limburgers: Scherpenzeel and Schoenmaeckers. They found everything better than being part of the Netherlands, which in their view only thought about the importance of Amsterdam and Rotterdam. Anyway, that was in 1848. In May 1849 that decision should have been implemented, but the Netherlands did not cooperate. Because of the growing division in the League and because of the German-Austrian war that followed, the League fell apart and Limburg remained with the Netherlands. And luckily, I hear you thinking. As a Limburger, a Dutchman, a European and a Christian Democrat, I am now standing here in the Chamber, in the political arena, in the centre of power, at least, in our opinion. That's very nice in itself. Subsidiarity, shared responsibility, is the most essential of the four basic notes of the CDA. Only I hate that horrible term "subsidiarity." That's a terrible word, of course. I prefer to translate that into: the right to do it myself. We claim and defend the right to do so ourselves, yesterday, today and tomorrow. People, families, neighborhoods, villages, municipalities, provinces and countries, but also associations and companies have the right to do it themselves, to organise it themselves. The social doctrine developed by the Catholic Church in the 19th century in response to society's change also refers to subsidiarity. While Scherpenzeel is on my way to the subject of "Schoenmaeckers" to distance myself from The Hague, I am standing here to make that connection. Because I consider the right to do it myself of great importance and because I am a representative of the people of the Netherlands and their guests, I stand here as Limburgs and as a Dutch MP to support our national pride, the KLM, in maintaining its right to do it myself. KLM is essential for Schiphol and Schiphol is essential for the Netherlands. That is why Parliament needs to talk about this today. I am glad that we are standing here and I am grateful that the Secretary of State has taken the trouble to answer the questions before this debate. On 2 February next Monday, the holding company Air France-KLM decides on the financial situation of the holding company and the distribution of funds between Air France and KLM. With KLM's cash, Air France would like to gain a better position on the money market and buy a number of aircraft. Last night, a press release was issued on the consultation between the holding company and the supervisory board of KLM on the management of liquid assets. Although the press release initially seemed reassuring, it actually did not reassure. After all, excess cash can still be transferred to Air France via the holding company. The CDA doesn't like that and we're resisting it. We ask the cabinet to do the same, because the staff are worried, not only the pilots but also the cabin and ground staff. That is not wrong, because it cannot be that the money may be in the Rabobank account in Amstelveen, but that the debit card is at De Juniac in Paris. This cabinet has a number of tools in its hands to act, to do something. First of all, these are the shares and SAK I and SAK II. Secondly, it is the landing rights that are not made available to KLM. If that's not leverage, I don't remember. Thirdly, that is the status of our cabinet. Let me look at the Secretary of State: you are the cabinet of the Netherlands. The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Secretary of State himself can also say something. I want to give the Secretary of State a fourth piece of tools in her fight through this debate. That is a statement by this Parliament, namely that we are committed to the independence of KLM and that it can always continue to talk about its own greenhouse. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to come up with a plan together with KLM, with the administration offices I and II, with Air France-KLM and with the French Government, after consultation, so that this is the last time we have to have such a debate on KLM in this Parliament. If necessary, I will table motions for this in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Van Helvert. Congratulations on your maiden speech. I shall suspend the sitting briefly so that your colleagues can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Van Helvert on his maiden speech; congratulations. I look forward to all the debates that are going to come with him. We are talking about the KLM in this debate. Today, De Telegraaf was relieved with the news "KLM manages its own greenhouse" and thus ended the previous unrest about KLM's looting. The cabinet spoke of "plans for structural improvement of financial results." However, this does not mean that all the questions have been answered and that the problem has actually been solved. This is just the beginning, as the works council said. D66 also shares that view. How do we stop us from being back here in a few months? I have a lot of questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, with regard to what was agreed yesterday, what exactly is off the table and what is left on the table? Are the plans that are off the table now also permanently off the table? And what are the conditions? What is the position of KLM within Air France? What are Air France's legal possibilities to have KLM resources? What influence do shareholders have and can the Secretary of State make a distinction between voting and economic rights? What would be the consequences of moving tasks from Amstelveen to Paris? What does this also mean for the competitiveness of Schiphol? It is essential to know what agreements were made during the merger in 2004. Have agreements been reached on financial management? The Secretary of State writes in her letter of 20 January that a number of agreements remain in the merger agreement. But you understand, I am particularly interested in what agreements disappear or are changed. Can the Secretary of State clarify this in this debate? Finally. What can the cabinet actually do? I would ask both the role of the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment and the role of the Minister of Finance. After all, we have 5.92% shareholdership in KLM. How can the cabinet guarantee KLM's autonomy, which it itself attaches such importance to? What can be done and what absolutely cannot be moved to Paris? And how is the cabinet going to guard that autonomy and independent position? In short, that's a lot of questions. I look forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Van Helvert on his maiden speech; well done. I look forward to the coming years in which we will move together and control the government together. The situation around KLM is serious. I already asked questions about KLM's competitive position in the Chamber on 5 October 2012. Then the Secretary of State basically said there was nothing going on. We now know that the facts are much more serious. It's a really big problem. Billions have flown away, KLM's equity has virtually evaporated. Air France-KLM's equity is now negative. I have therefore also examined the evolution of own funds. I have put these data together, which shows how serious the situation is. This gives a different picture from what the figures in the Secretary of State's letter of office show, because they do not contain the latest data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u15	I will ensure that these figures are distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u16	I would also like these data to be confirmed, and I would ask the Secretary of State to split them out to the various companies, namely Air France and KLM, so that we can see the exact course. If the course of events continues as shown by the tables I have just presented, it will not be long before we have to discuss them again, because the situation is very serious. The SP Group is therefore very concerned about this situation. As far as we are concerned, the Cabinet is making every effort to maintain the KLM as a strong player in the aviation sector in the future. The SP Group is therefore curious to see what measures the Cabinet is taking to ensure that KLM can maintain its independent position within Air France-KLM. We also wonder if the holding company Air France-KLM can decide on the transfer of financial management to Paris. The SP Group would like to know what possibilities the KLM has to step out of the holding. Is this possible and what consequences would that have? In short, can the KLM leave the sinking ship in time if this is necessary to ensure the survival of the KLM? In general, we see that the KLM is also having a hard time. Sometimes this is caused by unfair competition. For example, it is not unthinkable that in the future at Lelystad Airport a dubious prize fighter will descend, who will be able to make use of the infrastructure co-paid by KLM for an apple and an egg from Lelystad Airport and who will compete with the KLM from Lelystad Airport. We also see that the airlines from the Gulf States have advantages over the KLM. These airlines are favoured from their home countries by matters that are not allowed within the European Union. This creates unfair competition. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is curious about the possibilities for the cabinet to stop this unfair competition. Can we expect government measures to protect the KLM, similar to those which protect the Gulf carriers by the Gulf countries? My group would be particularly grateful if the House of Representatives were to be given structural information on the latest state of affairs regarding KLM. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr Bashir, I ask you an informative question. You have distributed figures. You have asked so many questions about this that I have informed you that these figures will be made available to the CIP. Can you tell me where those numbers came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u18	These figures come from the annual report of the Air France-KLM Group. The Secretary of State sent the figures on assets and liabilities to the Chamber. The figures I have provided relate to own funds. They're missing in...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u19	Your figures are therefore from the annual report of the Air France-KLM Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u20	Madam President. In the early 1980s, the House of Representatives conducted the first modern parliamentary survey on government interference with the shipbuilder RSV. As a young editor of The Hague Today I reported on that survey. It was really unheard of. In the end, 18 000 jobs and 2.5 billion to 3 billion guilders would be lost. My group has therefore certainly hesitated on the subject of this debate. We did not have this hesitation because we would not know the blue pride in the VVD, or because we are not concerned about employment at KLM, or because we would miss KLM's importance for Schiphol and the associated economic growth and the locational climate. We were hesitant about having this debate because government and enterprise do not mix well. The government should not sit on the entrepreneur's seat. I asked for the floor in this debate, because there are also some things we can do if we want to stand up for one of the largest employers in the country, the KLM, with 26,000 jobs, not to mention the 300,000 countrymen who earn their living in aviation every day, earning EUR 26 billion a year. Air France-KLM, like many of the traditional Western airlines, faces major challenges. It is up to the company itself to come up with solutions to get stronger out of it. However, last week's reports about a possible hold in the KLM's greenhouse by the parent company Air France, up to a billion euros a year, gave us great concern, as this seems to make independent decisions of the KLM a thing of the past. The VVD Group is pleased that the cabinet has also expressed its concern that the KLM itself should exercise control over the reserves. I have a number of questions about this. I am not going to repeat the questions raised by previous speakers; I am going to go along with them for a short time. Last night, I asked the Secretary of State what exactly happened. This question is partly motivated by the scepticism of the workers. Does the Secretary of State have any further information? Are there guarantees for the autonomy of the KLM? And if there are none, can we hear more about it in the short term, if necessary in writing? What have the cabinet and the finance minister been doing as a shareholder of KLM since the first reports about this so-called hold in the cash? Has the minister been informed by the company? Did he get any information himself? And how does limiting the autonomy of the Dutch branch relate to the memorandum of understanding concluded in May 2010 between the Dutch State and Air France-KLM? I understand that the Secretary of State had contact with the French Secretary of State last Monday. Did she draw attention to the problem? Furthermore, if I am well informed, France uses a so-called taxe de solidarité on airline tickets, once introduced by President Chirac. This can be up to €45 per ticket. As Secretary of State Wiebes van Financiën wanted clarification last week on excise duties in Belgium and Luxembourg, the VVD Group asks the Secretary of State for Aviation to inform her colleague in France, Vidalies, explicitly about plans to change the basis of this tax and thus not to bring it in through French airports but in a different way, as is rumored. This could give Air France and indirectly KLM more financial air. However, we too, as the House of Representatives, can do a number of things. I would like to make that very clear. There will not be an aviation debate without expensive proposals for aviation and KLM from these benches. Whether it's the flight tax that the CDA introduced in 2008 and which was stopped after great social resistance a year later, according to KLM, 900,000 passengers had dropped out, or the gold-edged fee for delayed cases that D66 recently came up with, or the tightening of the noise standards for Schiphol that GroenLinks chooses every time, it doesn't help KLM. Surely it is an extremely strange and worrying signal that something as obvious as the more frequent use of four jobs at the same time at Schiphol is causing so much resistance? Only twenty additional take-offs or landings per week appear to be arriving now, but only if the maximum number of flights is reduced to 2020 at the same time. We should also talk about this here in the Chamber: the question of how we will continue to help aviation and thus maintain the top economic function of Schiphol and KLM. And not about crocodile tears and the blue swan feeling. Of course we do, but let us make sure that aviation can grow and that Schiphol gets space. That's also a way to help KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u21	There is one man who could have helped me get 600,000 flight movements into Schiphol for our blue swans. I keep calling them that and I'm proud of it; I keep calling them our blue swans. That was Mr Elias of the VVD, together with his group. I now understand that if I retable my motion on the extension of Schiphol, Mr Elias will support that motion. I want that guarantee now, because Mr Elias tells things other than what he always says here at VVD meetings in Haarlem and in the newspapers. I do not think that is fair or fair, and it is not right for the voters either. So I'd like to know now. If I am going to retable that motion, I am not going to do so today, but at an AO Airline, does Mr Elias support my proposal that Schiphol and thus KLM, as Siamese twins, should grow to 600,000 flight movements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u22	The accusation that I say other things on speeches than here in the Chamber does not make you believe, so I cannot go into that. You do not give any examples. The other point I can tell you quietly. I have said on several occasions that I am in favour of the growth of Schiphol, but unlike your group, we are looking at the realistic possibilities and at Chamberities. There is no majority in the Netherlands that thinks Schiphol can grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u23	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u24	No, not with your group either. You have, what is it, I don't know how many people have run away by now, but what are you on? Eleven or twelve seats?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Elias,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u26	Sorry, I'll speak through the chairman. The PVV has 11 or 12 seats. We have 41. That is not 76, Mr Graus. So what I have always advocated on a new basis is that Schiphol can only grow in the existing social-political context when Lelystad arrives. That is a realistic political starting point. You would greatly help KLM and Schiphol if you showed that same realism instead of telling fairy tales.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u27	Madam President, what is happening now is something I take very seriously, because this is a very serious lie! I will now also come up with examples. You have always been in front of the Alderstable, and you say to De Telegraaf and Het Financieele Dagblad: that Alderstable is nothing, it is a polder and an 80 pump model! While you didn't say that here. The same applies to the extension of Schiphol. I've asked you to expand Schiphol to 600,000 movements, and you're telling me here that I'm telling fairy tales. Schiphol himself says he can grow to 600,000 movements. So you're the one selling fairy tales here! As for the PVV's: they have gone away, but there are dozens coming back, more than you like. Please bear that in mind. It will look a lot better for Schiphol and KLM, because we will keep our promises and you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr Graus can make a lot of noise and jump back and forth at that microphone, but that does not strengthen his argument. I emphasized in the previous debate in the Chamber that we have great difficulty with the democratic legitimacy of the Alders table. That is a polder thing that comes out of all sorts of things, but for which there is hardly any democratic justification. I'm very critical of that. I think this should be changed at the Environment Council, the successor. However, I remain realistic. I look around and I see that a compromise has been brewed with great difficulty and that this is the only way for Schiphol to grow in the future. It's called, I believe, making dirty hands, making political choices or pursuing reality, but that's what I stand for. That ultimately helps KLM much more than all kinds of screams. If we agree on that now, we can help Schiphol and KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u29	A lot of political flies are being caught here and perhaps we should go back to the subject, namely that KLM got into that trouble because Air France wanted to take a hold in the greenhouse. Mr Elias says that politics should not sit on the entrepreneur's seat, but does he also see that there is a problem with Air France, namely that it is not doing very well and that KLM might be dragged along? Does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u30	Yes, of course the VVD Group sees this problem and of course it is very concerned about it. We are not keeping a better story than is possible and justified on the basis of the facts. For this reason, at the public meeting last Monday, I said that insofar as French politicians would have a wrong influence on Air France, they have a different political-administrative culture than in the Netherlands, and KLM would suffer from it as an independent party in the Netherlands, I call on Dutch politicians and this State Secretary to counter pressure from French politicians. That is what we can do and not much more. We have to be honest about that, too. In his maiden speech, colleague Van Helvert proposes to make another plan. But for what? The proportions are crystal clear. Nor will we sit on the seat of the company V&D. We shouldn't do that. Of course I see the problem and I see the connection with Schiphol and the pivot function of Schiphol. It is not for nothing that I have advocated giving Schiphol space and not every time looking at whether we can come up with another problem, which makes it more difficult for Schiphol to expand. Of course we see the problem, but it is also wrong to let people think about it and say that we are going to take care of it for a while. We are not going to give state aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u31	State aid is not at issue either, because KLM is doing well. When Mr Elias here acknowledges that there is a problem because KLM could be dragged along with KLM-Air France, we do have a responsibility. We are talking about a great deal of employment here. It is also a hub for Schiphol and billions of investments we have made in Schiphol and other airports. There is therefore a political role to play here. Then we must not look at what can and cannot be done, but at what we must do to ensure that employment is maintained. Does Mr Elias agree with me? If so, we may be able to do business in the direction of the cabinet to ensure that KLM is saved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u32	But of course I agree with you and that is why I am here. That's why I asked those questions. What has the Dutch government, the Dutch Minister of Finance, done as, albeit small, shareholder on this front? How can we use maximum influence, of course while maintaining the existing responsibilities, to ensure that KLM retains the independent position and that all these alleged predatory activities cannot take place? Those are legitimate questions. However, we should not make it more beautiful than it is. We can't send in to KLM itself. We have to be honest about this and face it honestly and clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u33	I could follow Mr Elias a lot, but when he made a comparison with the difficult situation at V&D, I thought: does the VVD have any idea what it's about? Does the VVD not see that there is indeed a difference with the situation at V&D, since the State has a direct interest in KLM and the Netherlands, perhaps an even greater indirect interest, namely the importance of Schiphol for prosperity in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u34	Of course. I didn't call on Minister Kamp to speak to French or Spanish politicians about the situation at V&D, did I? Dutch politicians may be able to ask questions, exert pressure and send signals through French politicians, including from this Parliament, which do not cause those things to happen in Paris that we regard as harmful, bad and wrong for KLM. Of course I agree with that interest. However, I am trying to tell the whole story on behalf of the VVD and that is that we must recognise that politicians should not try to sit on the entrepreneur's seat. I will repeat this regularly, because we cannot raise false expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u35	I agree with Mr Elias on that last point. However, Mr Elias himself made that remark about the V&D and I do not think it was entirely appropriate. He was right to point out that we must put political pressure in France, because the political climate and the political atmosphere are different from here. Does the VVD agree with me that it is precisely for this reason that it is right for the cabinet and parliament to make a clear statement about the situation of the KLM, because it has more influence in France than in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u36	Sure. However, we must recognise the existing division of responsibility and the division of competences. There must be absolute clarity about this. Loud and clear expressing our concerns and putting political pressure on Paris as necessary are precisely the things I called for last Monday. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. I have two minutes to speak. Of course, that's not much and that's why I'm starting right away. KLM is our national pride. The current situation at KLM therefore hurts. In my group's opinion, Air France has never been the right fusion partner for KLM. That was already the case in the 2004 merger year, and it is still the case today. The differences in organizational culture between KLM and Air France are too great. The same applies to the financial and economic cultural differences between the Netherlands and France. Last year the French pilots of Air France-KLM stopped, because they saw their very generous conditions of employment in jeopardy. The damage was enormous. The company lost 20 million euros per strike day. But the merger between Air France and KLM is a fact. KLM's survival may be at stake. There is a chance that KLM will be financially sucked out by Air France in the future. As a shareholder, the Dutch State has a stake of almost 6% in KLM. Will the Secretary of State press for intervention in the loss-making branch of the holding company, namely Air France? I am asking because that is at the heart of the problem. The French must reform. As long as the Dutch State has an interest as shareholder, it must use its influence. The summit of Air France-KLM has now indicated that there will be no transfer of cash, but not everyone is confident about that. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Helvert on behalf of my party. I really thought he wanted to separate with Limburg, because you never know with those Limburgers. That would have been a pity, because I have come to know him as a hard-working and ambitious Member of Parliament. So it would have been very unfortunate for the CDA. Next week, the management of Air France-KLM will decide on the transfer of KLM's financial management to Paris. This would lose KLM's independent position within the holding company Air France-KLM. Fortunately, yesterday we received the reassuring message that the transfer of financial management would be over. However, it is unclear to us what exactly has been agreed and how hard these agreements are. Several colleagues have already asked for this; I would like to endorse those questions and be interested in the answer. KLM is of great importance for the position of Schiphol as a transit airport, for the Dutch economy and for our employment. The Labour Party therefore believes that KLM's financial management should remain in the Netherlands and with KLM. An independent position of KLM is better for the position of Schiphol, the Dutch economy and employment, as well as for the Dutch employees of KLM. What are the possibilities as a government to influence KLM's decision-making? That question has already been asked. First of all, there is of course the importance of 5.92% that the State has in KLM. This is a limited interest, but in the past KLM's merger with Air France has agreed on KLM's independence. Those agreements have been converted into a memorandum of understanding, but clear agreements on financial management have not been made, as far as we have understood. My group asks the Secretary of State to reconsider the scope and hardness of these agreements. There are also the two foundations, the administrative foundations, which formally anchor KLM as Dutch society. We understand that these foundations are independent and only affect the security of KLM's landing rights at Schiphol Airport. Would the Secretary of State like to explain once again how far the position and influence of these foundations go? It seems that the Dutch government has little formal influence on Air France-KLM, but that does not mean that we cannot exert any influence. It does not mean that we cannot send a very clear political signal from the government and from the Chamber. In the interests of the Dutch economy and employment, the Labour Party considers that the Dutch Government should speak out clearly and vigorously against a French takeover of the financial management and thus the loss of KLM's independence. It may be supported by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u39	As the last speaker on this first term of office, I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr. Chairman. Schiphol is important for the economy and for employment, and the position of Schiphol is highly dependent on KLM's position in the international aviation market. Despite the crisis, KLM manages to maintain itself well. In the last four years there has been a positive result, except for a small minus of 44 million in 2012. However, since 2011, Air France-KLM has been writing dieprode figures, in 2013 almost 2 billion euros. The problem is therefore mainly with Air France. This isn't gonna last long. It is actually surprising that the French branch of Air France-KLM has not intervened much earlier. In the end, this also serves a Dutch interest. In recent months, Air France has had a conflict with its pilots. An agreement has been reached with great difficulty on the extension of Transavia's prize fighter, but it seems that Air France is not yet out of trouble, because last week the report came up on the removal of 800 jobs. They have also been talking about skimming the money at KLM for weeks. The Christian Union finds it very worrying that the holding company Air France-KLM has come up with this afroom proposal at all. It would amount to a total of EUR 1 billion. The end of the song may well be that the holding company is being saved, but that KLM's position within the holding company gradually waters down, because the company cannot invest enough. The Christian Union is pleased that the Secretary of State says that KLM's position is important for Schiphol and cannot be separated from autonomous financial management. What means does the State have to enforce that? I fear very little. In KLM's vision, agreements were made in 2003 to safeguard Dutch interests. In 2010, some of these agreements were renewed in the Memorandum of Understanding. The essence of this evening's debate is the question of what these agreements are worth. Are the agreements sufficient to maintain the position of KLM and therefore of Schiphol in the future? For example, up to six years after the merger, the Dutch State had the right to acquire the majority of KLM shares if deemed necessary for aviation policy reasons. This right of option has not been extended. However, it is still agreed that KLM is based in the Netherlands and has its home base here and that Air France-KLM operates with a multihub system in Europe with Paris Charles de Gaulle and Schiphol as the cornerstones. But you have big and small hubs. How hard is the agreement on the network quality of Schiphol? Actually, butter soft. It's just a strategic commitment, according to the 2010 letter of inquiry. The concrete agreements on the number of destinations have expired. I can't find anything on the terms of the merger or on financial management in 2010. Have any agreements been made on this? The supervisory board can let the French holding company know that no cash would be taken, but what is such a message worth? The Dutch State's majority stake concerns only the management of landing rights. The holding company has a majority stake in economic terms. I'm rounding up. It is good that the proposal for the cash management of the agenda of the holding company's board meeting will be removed next Monday. What is the value of this commitment? Can the same proposal not be pushed through in a few weeks, without KLM and the Dutch State being able to stop it? The Christian Union would like a clear answer from the Secretary of State, because the economic impact of such interventions on the Netherlands can be significant in the longer term. We attach great importance to our economy and employment. I look forward to answering all our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to say that I see a blue heart. That's what I see in Limburg. I congratulate Mr Van Helvert on his maiden speech. I always say we have 150 bosses and you've become my 150th boss. I also secretly congratulate Mr Leenders on his birthday, because I know his birthday is today. We're all here with a blue heart. I too have a blue heart. I have used that literal text to my French colleague and to all the people I have spoken about KLM. I'll start with the cash, the reason we're standing here. Then I'll explain what I'm doing and what the broader framework is. In various media members have read that Air France-KLM announced yesterday that there has been a constructive consultation with the board of Air France-KLM and the supervisory board. The company has announced that there are no plans to transfer the excess cash from KLM to the holding company and that KLM retains control of its own cash. I have been asked what will be happening on 2 February 2015 and whether there are any other details. I have had personal contact with Mr Elbers. He has said that he cannot give any openness to this, simply because it is a confidential meeting, because KLM is a publicly listed private organisation and because matters that are discussed about finance are not able to tolerate openness at the moment. I think that is right, because that position must not be put at risk. So it is not that I do not want to inform the Chamber, but the CEO of KLM has made this very clear, and I think that is a very good approach from Mr Elbers. I see yesterday's message as a positive signal that the decision-making process within Air France-KLM is moving in the right direction. As I have indicated, I think it is very important that KLM and Air France's independent position cannot be separated from KLM's autonomous position in financial management. As an independent airline, KLM will have to continue to invest in, for example, fleet financing and will have to remain responsible for its own cash flows, banking relationships, the management of the financial cash position and the execution of its own hedging.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u42	The Secretary of State says excess cash will not be skimmed. That was also very clear in the press release. Just to be sure, I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State how they mean that. You might want to find out something. That's why I'm asking this follow-up question. They say excess cash isn't being skimmed. So it may be that the normal cash is being skimmed. Isn't that gonna happen? And if the cash isn't skimmed, does that include the fact that there are no rules that make KLM pay a certain fixed amount every year? In other words, isn't there a rule behind the very proud message from the holding company that no excess cash is being skimmed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u43	I am not KLM's board, so I cannot give you an answer. I have told you that I have been in contact with Mr Elbers. What will be on the agenda for next Monday on this subject will then be discussed by the people involved and who will deal with it. I do not say that out of unwillingness, but because I also believe that this meeting should be protected in that sense that no information should come out that is not allowed to come out, given the position of publicly listed private organisation. In addition, it is up to the partners present at that meeting to take a decision on this matter. Before you become impatient: I will speak shortly about my role and the way in which I look at what is and is not decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u44	I certainly look forward to that. If I understand correctly, because KLM is unable to open up to me, we cannot guarantee that a certain part of the cash will not go away. I find that disturbing. To what extent does the Secretary of State himself find it worrying that we do not have that guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u45	I've been asked more often for guarantees. I always say there's no guarantee. Maybe you can get a guarantee on a coffee maker, so you get a new device if it breaks down, but in this situation there are guarantees not to give. I have spoken to the President of the Supervisory Board before, and I have read his interview in the newspaper today. I think he's using clear words. He is exactly an official in the organisation who can say something about this and who is actually sitting at the table. Those statements guarantee to you and me that those people in the place where they decide actually make those decisions and make those statements. The chairman of the Supervisory Board has also made a very clear statement on how he feels about the cash.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u46	The Secretary of State referred to the role she sees as the Secretary of State and the Cabinet for herself, but I do wonder how to indicate the answer. One of the points I raised in my speech is whether we are not debating again after 2 February. Now I like to debate with the Secretary of State, but still. On the one hand, the Secretary of State says that she sees yesterday's message as a positive signal and expects independent financial management to be maintained. How am I supposed to reconcile that with her other answer, namely that it is up to the board and that Mr Elbers himself said that he has not yet been able to say anything about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u47	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I can't give you that guarantee. I will come to my end in a moment, but in the end it is essential that we continue to bring Dutch interests to the fore, from everyone's role. As far as I am concerned, the CEO of KLM, the chairman of the supervisory board, the works council representing the interests of the employees, and I too, on behalf of the cabinet, must do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u48	Can I take it in such a way that it is not excluded that after 2 February we are again here to talk about the cash and financial management at KLM? Is that what I'm supposed to conclude from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u49	Yesterday, a press release was issued by Air France-KLM and KLM. The Supervisory Board has also made statements. I'm not gonna question it in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u50	I find it extremely regrettable that the Secretary of State offers an opening for Air France to take a hold in KLM's greenhouse. There are no guarantees. Maybe it's a non-absolute cash flow. When I look at the course of equity, which I've had the charts spread, I see that the power burns quickly. Suppose KLM gives a billion euros to Air France, then they won't be taking advantage of it for long, because after a while the money is back on. Is the Secretary of State aware of this and is it taking this into account in the pressure on KLM and Air France?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u51	I've been clear. In the letter of 20 January, I described what I believe should happen. The figures which Mr Bashir has distributed on own funds have been taken out of the annual reports. The Court also received other figures from the annual reports in the letter of 27 January. I would like to answer the question on own funds in writing in consultation with the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u52	Okay, that's fine. However, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure is also part of the cabinet. The cabinet has an interest in maintaining employment. If cash goes to Paris, whether unnecessary or not, they will not benefit for long. The operation shows that Air France will survive for another two or three months. It's not a structural solution. So that should not be the discussion. The question must be how we ensure that KLM and Air France are restructured in such a way that Air France will perform just as well as KLM. Why doesn't the Secretary of State show that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u53	That's exactly what my follow-up is about. KLM's network is essential for good international accessibility in the Netherlands. Without the hub function of the KLM there would be no Schiphol in its current form. That is precisely our national interest and the interest of the Air France-KLM group. Just as much as we want Schiphol to grow to the maximum, there is a reason why Air France and KLM have joined forces. I see Mr Graus getting up, but we will talk about growth, also in relation to the Alders table. Air France has the hub function at Charles de Gaulle. It is important that Air France-KLM is protected in its breadth, so that the company has an answer to the challenges it faces, such as the competition of low-cost companies in Europe and the Gulf carriers for the international hub function. The organisation must come up with a plan to shape the holding company, with a branch for Air France and a branch for KLM, in such a way that they are ready for that competition. After all, it's gonna be a competition. The level playing field is very important in that. One of the tasks I would like to entrust to myself is to raise this issue in Europe: what is that level playing field? Mr Bashir already indicated that the level playing field would not be entirely good. With the Gulf carriers, I believe that Europe should take a position on this. That is one of the points I have discussed with my French colleague, Mr Vidalies: how are we going to shape this in Europe? Not only Charles de Gaulle, Schiphol and Air France have an interest in this, but also Germany with Lufthansa and British Airways with Heathrow. That is a competition that must be played explicitly and I can play a decisive role in it, together with my colleague in France.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u54	I didn't expect the Secretary of State to be able to give firm assurances tonight. I'm probably gonna ask for that in a motion. What is a problem, however, is that it may happen again. If the Secretary of State does not give that guarantee, then it can happen again, let that be very clear; one and one is two. What's up with the Secretary of State? I said set up a rescue plan or at least keep a rescue plan in hand. What's possible to save KLM from those claws? Surely we cannot allow our healthy business to be dragged down by a loss-making and distressing Air France? That's what needs to be dealt with, isn't it? The Secretary of State can negotiate even if she takes Prime Minister Rutte with the French Government, in the sense of: boys, that's not how we're gonna do it, because we need each other even more. They're not gonna fight about that, are they? There's got to be a way to talk about that at that level, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u55	Two questions are being asked. I'll answer both of them. It is essential that we continue to bring Dutch interests to the fore and continue to guarantee them, each from its own role. Mr Elias asked very strikingly: what can anyone do? I think the 5.9% shares aren't about the number, they're about what you do with your shareholder position. The shareholders' meeting will decide on the agenda items, but we are not on the seat of the Air France-KLM board or on the seat of the KLM board. However, we are a partner in securing the interests that are needed. I'm gonna go through some of the heel on the branch, but I think this is important. We guarantee the importance of aviation in such a way that Schiphol and KLM can actually grow, that there is a future, that there is sufficient capacity. The issue of capacity at Schiphol Airport has already been discussed in the debate. We need to ensure the capacity on Lelystad and Eindhoven, which allows Schiphol to grow. This also gives KLM space. We must ensure that Schiphol Airport and regional airports are easily accessible. There must be a balanced aviation policy and a balanced aviation policy. This means that when granting landing rights, we clearly reflect the advantages and disadvantages of the network for Schiphol. Then I'll be back on the Gulf carriers. I said that in view of Emirates and the open aviation agreement, I consider it important to monitor the economic balance between KLM and Emirates. Emirates knows that, too. I shared that with the Chamber when there was an increase in Emirates' air traffic. A balanced aviation policy is important for creating framework conditions, such as promoting a competitive cost level at Schiphol Airport. Schiphol has reduced the rates and soon the results of a benchmark study will come to the Chamber. This shows that Schiphol scores very well in terms of the level of air fares and public charges. Schiphol Airport is cheaper in this respect than other airports. There must also be a level playing field at this European level. This includes the ETS policy, the regulation of passenger rights and the Single European Sky. These are matters that I am committed to and which are all put around Air France-KLM to ensure that KLM is secured by Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u56	There's hardly anyone who can disagree with the whole thing. However, I want to stick to KLM and Air France. I don't want to bring in the Emirates. I want the Secretary of State to let us know, as a Chamber, what she is going to do, whether or not with Prime Minister Rutte, to ensure that this does not happen again. She says she can't give a guarantee and I can understand that, but then there's got to be a second best plan? Then there's got to be something else, right? Surely we cannot wait for KLM to be sucked down and one of the largest private employers here by Air France? It can't be that all those people who have a very emotional connection with that company, which is indisputably connected to Schiphol, are watching that happen? Surely there must be something our government can do in the direction of France? I do not address the Secretary of State as a shareholder for 5.9%, but as a managing director for KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u57	I spoke with my colleague from France last Monday. Of course, we'll discuss how we look at Air France-KLM together. All the concerns expressed by Mr Graus have been highlighted in that discussion. That conversation is confidential. I can't quote from it. However, I think it is important that these talks take place. It is precisely so important that Air France and KLM show how they shape their organisation and how they look at their own future in terms of competition, growth and security of the company and its employees. The Minister of Finance and I can stand right next to that from the aviation portfolio and the shareholder function, to show that this cabinet too has a blue heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u58	What the Secretary of State can do is clear. You can't argue with that either. If you get a level playing field, that's fine. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the main problem lies with Air France, that it needs to be reformed and that the organizational culture no longer fits in with KLM?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u59	The organisation Air France has to deal with its own culture and its own history, just like KLM. In 2004 the companies merged, simply because only moving forward was not possible. When we looked at who could be good partners, one of the arguments was that Air France and KLM partly fit together very well because of the culture. What I see from pride in the Netherlands at KLM, I see from pride in France at Air France. Cultural aspects belong to countries and organisations. Air France and KLM have continued for the last ten years. They're having a rough time right now. The environment has changed. Gulf carriers have arrived and lowcostairlines in Europe are on a flight. I believe that two companies which have formed the holding company in this way should also jointly ensure that a plan is put in place to ensure a good competitive position vis-à-vis other companies. I believe that KLM should be protected independently in order to maximise this for the Netherlands, for Schiphol and for employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u60	Several analysts, including French, say that the problem lies with Air France's organisational culture, which is reluctant to reform. The Netherlands State is for 6% shareholder, isn't it? Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this with Air France? At least, is she prepared to denounce this with her partner in France?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u61	Finally, I come to my speech. I will answer this immediately. I spoke with my colleague Vidalies in December. Last Monday I spoke to him in person again in Luxembourg. The deal we made there is that we will talk together with the top of Air France-KLM. I think it is very good that we are sitting at the table in this way: with the CEO of Air France-KLM, the CEO of KLM and with both directors. That's exactly what we do to see how you're going to do this, and what governments can do and what they can't do. After all, the Chamber knows that the air transport market has been liberalised. We don't have a flight tax, but there's still a tax in France. One of Mr Elias' questions was how you deal with the mechanisms you have, each from an independent position. I'm not the cabinet of France. I stand before the cabinet of the Netherlands and we speak with one voice here. However, I think it is important that we sit down together in that setting to arrange a number of things. That will happen in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u62	And one of those things is organizational culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u63	We were gonna ask two questions at a time. Let me take a look at Mrs. Hachchi, because I find this a little complicated. I usually do one round. If that's the case, I'll give the Secretary of State an opportunity to move on. However, I have the feeling that the Secretary of State is now discussing many issues. Is it true that you have made a long progress in your response? I see that's the case. That is why I allow Mrs Hachchi's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u64	I was just asking if we could be reassured, in the sense that we will not be back here after 2 February because of the problems within Air France-KLM, specifically because of the financial management. The Secretary of State replied: I cannot give a guarantee. But what I want to hear clearly from the Secretary of State in this debate is precisely what the role of the cabinet, of the Dutch State, is. I'm listening to the Secretary of State. I also understand that she mentions things that she, as Secretary of State for Aviation, has all on her plate. But if, when it comes to Air France-KLM specifically, she does not go beyond that blue heart, that is not clear enough for me. I hear two things in the Secretary of State's reply. On the one hand, it's up to Air France-KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u65	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u66	My question is this. It's unclear. Or it's up to KLM-Air France and the Dutch State has nothing to crumble in the milk. Or, as the Secretary of State says, we have expressed concerns and had discussions. It is one of the two: either there is a role to play from the cabinet, or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u67	The question is what role exactly. Running Air France-KLM is on the board of Air France-KLM. The board of Air France-KLM also represents the Dutch. I speak, among other things, with Mr Hartman and the representative on behalf of the government, and with De Hoop Scheffer. I am speaking with the President of the Supervisory Board. I speak to the CEO, Mr Elbers, but also to Mr De Juniac. It is very important that I always show how important it is for the Netherlands to maintain the hub function of Schiphol, to maintain employment and to ensure that KLM has an autonomous position within the holding company. But the position and the holding company is ultimately the holding company itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u68	Should I understand from this answer that the cabinet can do nothing but express concerns and make conversations? Is that all that's left and is it just waiting to see how it works out? Is that how I'm supposed to understand the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u69	No, that's not how Mrs. Hachchi should understand the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u70	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u71	It was asked: can you give the guarantee that no selection of the cash is made? From my political role, I am committed to ensuring that the KLM's financial management remains with the KLM, but I have no role to play in the decision-making process itself. That's up to the company. I am confident that the communication on the company's cash yesterday will be kept, partly on the basis of the discussions I have had. But there's gonna be numbers later. There will be a plan from Air France-KLM and KLM that will show how they look at the future, how they become and remain future proof, and how they fight competition. That plan must be made by the organization itself. The organization has its mechanisms for that. It has the works council, which looks into it. He's got boards of commissioners. They have a board. They must carry that plan together in the Netherlands and in France. Questions have been asked about the SAKs. I think I need to give a quiet explanation of what these two foundations are like. We all call it the SAKs. At some point you are very used to all kinds of terminology, but these are two foundations in which shares are housed. The abbreviation SAK stands for Stichting Administratiekantoor I and II. It might have been a little more original, but it's clear. They represent 44.2% of the shares. These SAKs do not influence KLM on behalf of the Dutch State. They are only important for securing KLM's landing rights. They are not active foundations in that sense. The statutory objective of the foundations concerns the management of the shares KLM aimed at representing the interests of KLM, Air France-KLM and the shareholder. They have no powers in the field of business management other than those raised at the shareholders' meeting of the KLM. In doing so, they shall exercise their right to vote. They are each managed by three persons: an independent chairman, a member appointed by KLM and a member appointed by Air France-KLM. The foundations shall take decisions on the basis of unanimity. In that sense, it is not a Dutch shareholder who does so. Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Hachchi have asked: are you prepared to come up with a plan with the KLM holding, SAK and others so that this is the last time we debate this? Mrs. Hachchi has asked that a few times. In the letter I indicated how I look at KLM's autonomy. I'd like to stand up for that. In this context, I consult with KLM and there is talk with the foundations, the administration offices. But it is not my role to come up with a plan of action for the holding company and for KLM. That's up to the companies themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u72	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the information that has been sent to us on this subject with a schematic representation of the way it all works. Do these two foundations also have the power to intervene on their own authority, if, for example, KLM would be in serious trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u73	No, the foundations don't have that authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u74	If I understand correctly, is it statutory that they do not have the possibility? For example, can they not use the voting rights they have to change decisions through the shareholders' meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u75	A vote shall be taken at the shareholders' meeting. I have just indicated how a foundation is composed, with an independent chairman, a member on behalf of Air France-KLM and a member on behalf of KLM. The foundations have no competence in the field of business management. Questions have been asked about the MoU. Among others, Mr Elias asked how limiting KLM's autonomy relates to the 2010 MoU. The MoU does not regulate the autonomous financial management of KLM. When approving the merger between Air France and KLM, a number of agreements were made by the government with the merged company to safeguard a number of public interests in terms of market access, including traffic rights and network quality. Some of these guarantees were extended in 2010 on the basis of the MoU, the Memorandum of Understanding. By letter dated 6 May 2010, the then Minister for Transport and Water Management informed the Chamber about the MoU. In view of KLM's status for Dutch aviation policy, the agreement has been maintained that KLM is based in the Netherlands and has its home base here. That is, of course, the basis of Schiphol and the hub function KLM has there. Furthermore, the agreement remains that KLM will keep its existing operational and other Dutch licences and will work together with the national aviation authorities to keep the existing route permits. You must imagine that there is a gap there when there are no landing rights; it is important that it continues to exist. For network quality, the agreement remains valid that Air France-KLM operates with a multihub system in Europe. Both Charles de Gaulle in Paris and Schiphol, as well as European and intercontinental hubs, are the cornerstones. The MoU has been extended, but the MoU is of course not a perpetual guarantee. I'm saying this because it's a going concern. For me, it is important for KLM to monitor its autonomous position in the holding company Air France. Mrs. Hachchi asked about economic and legal property. There is a very important difference between them. The economic ownership is 93% owned by Air France-KLM and thus the majority is owned by Air France-KLM because the SAKs are owned by Air France-KLM. The legal property is 51% in Dutch hands, because of the guarding and securing of landing rights. These legal shares do not allow a majority to influence business, as I said to Mr Bashir earlier. Mrs. Hachchi asked what is going to Paris and what is happening in Amstelveen. It is important for the holding company to achieve synergies. This can be done, for example, by centralising a number of things; think about travellers, ticketing and so on. Sometimes this can be in Paris and sometimes in Amstelveen. It is up to the company to set that up, because the synergy advantage can change the competitive position. Due to the public interest, network quality and landing rights, we agreed on state guarantees during the merger in 2004, which were extended in the MoU. However, an autonomous financial position remains important for KLM, because a strong Air France-KLM is simply in the interests of both countries. What is happening and what is not happening in Amstelveen will therefore be assessed in that context. In between, I say to Mr Graus that I will reply briefly and concisely to his three questions at the end of my speech. Mr Bontes has asked whether I am going to press for intervention. Often it's about conversations that you don't bring to the fore. These are conversations with sometimes robust discussions, in which there is clear talk and in which, in the end, the facts and interests must be put on the table in a brief and concise manner. I stand for KLM interests. I represent the cabinet of the Netherlands. A KLM interest is also that the holding company Air France-KLM becomes future-proof and ensures that it can cope with the competition of the low-cost carriers and the Gulf carriers in terms of the international hub. I also ask the French parties what measures are being taken on their side. How do we do it, how do we do it and what interests do we both serve? The company will make its plans clear in the short term, but pressing for intervention would be very far-reaching. The important thing for me is that KLM becomes future-proof within the group of Air France-KLM, that the whole organisation becomes future-proof again in a changing environment. Ms Hachchi and Mr Bashir asked what possibilities there were for getting KLM out of Air France-KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u76	For the record, I did not ask for that; Mr Bashir, but not the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'm sorry. Mr Bashir asked for it. My first answer in the letter of 27 January was: KLM is part of the French company Air France-KLM; only this company can decide to divest KLM. What legal possibilities are there to hold KLM in Dutch hands? I think that was a question from Mrs Hachchi. In the MoU, agreements were made with the merged companies to secure a number of public interests. In particular, with regard to market access and network quality and in view of KLM's Dutch aviation policy status, there is an agreement that KLM is based in the Netherlands and has its home base here. In addition, it has been agreed that there is a multihub network. I have said a number of times that it is essential that we maintain these two hub networks and that the organisations together are able to draw up a plan. In any case, I will be talking to my colleague and the Air France-KLM summit shortly about what such a strategy will look like, how it will be implemented. I believe that the company should also be clear and transparent about this. Otherwise it could indeed happen that we will soon be back here again. I believe that a company should not only answer to its employees about its vision and strategy, but should also show the outside world how this fight is going. On that road, there may well be some bumps in France, which we have seen here, of course, but I think that is precisely how this company is cherished on both sides. The pilots in France did not stop because they hated their own business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u78	I hear the Secretary of State say a number of things. She does think of how a company should be transparent, what it should do. She doesn't want to make a plan of her own; that's what the company has to come up with. Of course, a company has to make its own plan, but in addition, the cabinet could also come up with a plan that states how to deal with problems, and preferably how to prevent them? I hear the Secretary of State say a number of things that could be included in the cabinet's plan. Among other things, a company could be required to be transparent. That could be part of the cabinet's plan. The cabinet may also be able to deal with landing rights. The government can let you know that these are the rights of the government and that we are not currently making them available because this is common practice. All these things could be taken into account in a plan which, of course, should stand alongside the holding company's own plan. How does the Secretary of State look at bundling the issues she wants to do herself into a plan of action that makes it clear how we deal with Air France? It's not just a V&D. It concerns KLM, Air France and the holding company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u79	Mr Van Helvert says that KLM is not just a V&D, but I also have V&D very high. We have some Dutch icons. I always say that these are the KLM, the Dutch Elftal and the HEMA sausage, but I think that also includes V&D. I don't know if I've been advertising now. If that is the case, I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u80	No, you can't. We are not covered by media legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u81	I think it is wrong, as a matter of principle, for the cabinet to draw up a plan at the moment. We are talking about an international organisation, which operates competitively in a global market and has a position there. After all, they are our blue birds and the people of Air France are at least as proud of their society as we are of the KLM. The main point is that this organisation must make its own plan. Air France and KLM are the experts in the functions they perform; they are the experts in flying, intercontinental and within Europe, as a competitor for low-cost carriers. Such a plan must come from the organisation itself at all times. Air France-KLM is not a state-owned company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u82	The Secretary of State just referred to her letter of 27 January last. We have indeed seen them, but the answer given in that letter is unsatisfactory. Our question is whether the Secretary of State or the Cabinet has looked at the possibilities for intervention. Are there any?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u83	The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u84	I asked two questions. The first question is whether intervention opportunities have been considered. The second question is whether there are any possibilities for intervention. Is the Secretary of State's negative answer valid for both questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u85	Of course, I am talking to colleagues about the situation at Air France-KLM, partly as a result of developments in France, the way in which the organisation is looked at here and what is written about it. I have just explained that I do not think that we should make a plan for this. We have not looked at the possibilities for intervention. Do we have any options for intervention? I have just given the answer to that question. KLM's rejection within the holding company Air France-KLM is the subject of only one organisation, namely the holding company Air France-KLM. Only the holding company can decide to make shares available to the Dutch State. We are therefore not in a position to intervene in the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u86	Mr. Graus wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr. President, I had...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u88	No, you really got two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u89	The French are laughing at us. If a Dutch company destroyed a French company like this or tried to destroy it, even the French Prime Minister would interfere. The French would not accept that and would not tolerate it, but the Dutch government does not yet make a dent in a package of butter. On the other hand, he lets himself eat the cheese from the bread. Once again, I ask the government to interfere in this matter. The Secretary of State may say that KLM is not a state-owned company, but the State is a shareholder. Several governments are shareholders of Schiphol. KLM and Schiphol are Siamese twins. Moreover, it is one of the largest private employers. By the way, the government has often interfered with companies that are in trouble, so why not now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u90	Air France-KLM has indicated that it comes with a plan. That's the plan I'm waiting for. People want to come up with that plan in February. This plan aims to show what the strategy is for the future and how it is designed. In my opinion, it is very important that this plan should be drawn up by the company. The company is autonomous in this respect. The company itself has to look at this plan, including the works councils, the supervisory board and the board of Air France-KLM. I think it is important that KLM remains autonomous in the holding company. Now I repeat myself, but this is important to me. I'll do anything about it. Mr Graus has asked three questions. The first was: do you do everything in your power? The answer to that is yes. The second was: can you ensure KLM's continuity through aviation policy and with everything you have at your disposal? My answer to that is yes. I secured KLM within Schiphol Airport and within the Dutch aviation policy. Thirdly, Mr Graus asked whether he could obtain guarantees. I have already replied that I cannot give it to him. If a coffee maker is broken, the guarantee can be given that one gets a new one. This is about a very large company in which we have a huge interest, because part of that company is our blue heart. That's what I'm gonna stand for from the part I have. That is why I speak very frequently with the chairman of the Supervisory Board, with the CEO of Air France-KLM, with the CEO of KLM and with the Dutch representation on the board of Air France-KLM. I do this again and again, to be on top of it that KLM has the position within the Air France-KLM group to guarantee the hub function of Schiphol as much as possible. I can't guarantee it 100%. I want to maintain the hub function of Schiphol, with the employment and spin-off around Schiphol and with KLM as home carrier, to ensure that there is employment and we can be proud of Schiphol and KLM. Mr Elias asked about taxes. What do we do ourselves? Last year, a French parliamentary committee, the Le Roux Committee, investigated the competitiveness of French aviation. One of the conclusions was that the level of taxation at French airports is too high. My French colleague Vidalies told me that France is now going to abolish the passenger tax on transfer passengers, the so-called civil aviation tax. It is the relatively modest amount of €4 within Europe and about the same amount outside Europe. The committee in France has also proposed abolishing the so-called solidarity tax on aviation and providing a basis outside aviation. This is a high tax per passenger, the proceeds of which go to development aid. This tax is particularly high for business class: €11 within Europe and €45 outside Europe. However, this has not gone beyond a recommendation from the committee. In the Netherlands we have had the flight tax for one year; Mr Elias himself referred to that. Due to the negative impact on transport and therefore on the mainport and network, this tax has been abolished. The French are therefore lagging behind in this respect. I therefore think that the step they want to take in France is understandable. Moreover, the Chamber knows that I have investigated the costs for the airlines in the Netherlands compared to other countries. I will inform the Chamber on this very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u91	I have a question, otherwise I will have to come back to it in the second term. I still miss the answer to the question of whether the Secretary of State is prepared to push the French Secretary of State in the right direction to ensure that the tax in France actually leaves the airports. That would help, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u92	In the discussions I have had with my colleague, this subject has come to an end. I have the impression that he is active in this. Let me put it this way, because I do not think it is chic to quote from those conversations, which I often have with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u93	I note that the Secretary of State didn't leave that conversation unsatisfied. That would be a big deal. If by the way the need is really with KLM, it should be even less chic, if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u94	We've been through the step that was brought out yesterday by the company. I think we need to keep moving step by step and put the right resources at the right time. Mr Elias also asked what the Minister of Finance had done. The Minister of Finance has been in contact with KLM's CEO on his subjects, and with KLM's shareholders and with me. He stressed that it is important that KLM has a sufficiently autonomous position. The cabinet speaks with one voice in this. Then I come to Mr Bashir's question as to whether I can undertake to provide structural information to the Chamber on KLM. The answer to that is yes. If there is such a need and there are developments that are very relevant to the Chamber, then it is my job to provide the Chamber with this information in a structured and timely manner. I'll respond to that. Mrs Dik-Faber asked why the 2004 option to buy shares was not extended. It was agreed that the option could be temporarily extended: once for three years and then three times for one year. That's a total of six years. That was the maximum extension option and the Dutch State used it. A longer extension option was not possible during the negotiations in 2004, given dynamic aviation developments. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked how hard the agreements on Air France-KLM's multihub system were. In the MoU the agreements have been extended, among other things that a multihub system continues to exist at Schiphol and Charles De Gaulle. The deal's up. The CEO of Air France-KLM, Mr De Juniac, has also confirmed this to me. Air France's network at Schiphol Airport is developing positively. Soon I will send a letter to the Chamber containing the results of that recent research into network quality. This will show a positive development. I have already answered the question by the Christian Union Group about the results of Air France-KLM. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u95	I suggest we proceed with the second term. In the second period there will be a speaking time of about one and a half minutes, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. This morning, a debate on the Hedwigepolder, which I have requested, was squandered. And now KLM, if this continues, will be dragged along with a loss-making company, a distressing company. The French would have intervened by now. They would never have tolerated that from a country like the Netherlands. But we're just gonna sit around and watch it go wrong. There's not even a rescue plan, nothing at all. I'm gonna try one more time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to take all possible steps to obtain a guarantee that Air France cannot intervene in KLM's cashier,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-246]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u97	Look, I'm asking for guarantees...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u98	In order to be able to judge this motion seriously, why not try it? I would like to ask what exactly the author of this motion means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u99	I'm really glad someone's asking, because then I'll have more time to explain. KLM has received no guarantee from Air France that they will not attempt to rob their greenhouse again. There's no guarantee. I also have my contacts within KLM and there is no guarantee. I ask the Secretary of State to ensure that there are guarantees that this will not happen again in the future. The way she does that, I am sure she has the means to do it, and if necessary she will go with the Prime Minister to the French colleagues. It can ensure that this does not happen again in the future. That is why this is a rather sympathetic motion that can simply be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u100	I'm gonna try one more time. What should the Secretary of State do in concrete terms? Otherwise, I can't judge what to do with this motion. What should the Secretary of State do in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u101	I will try again and I will speak a little more quietly, because Mr Elias, like me, is beginning to grow old. The KLM has received no warranty from Air France there is nothing black and white that they are not going to cream KLM's profitable greenhouse again. It doesn't exist. Now I ask the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, the government, the guardian of KLM, to ensure that those guarantees come from France so that it does not happen again. I'm a member of parliament asking the government to do this. I'm not in a position to fly a government plane there to negotiate. I wish! I would hit the table there with the fist, as Sarkozy would have done in his time if this happened to a French company. But we're sitting here looking like bumper cars and helping KLM go to hell. We're not doing that alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u102	Well, well! To the basement!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u103	To the basement. Finally, I would like to make a comment on something that I think is very important. I hate it when people lie. That's why I got so bright. In February 2014, I tabled a motion to increase the maximum number of flight movements at Schiphol Airport with increasing insight. That motion was not supported by Mr Elias and the VVD. In fact, by no one. In July 2014, I again tried to ask for an investigation into the possibility of 600,000 flight movements. Even that was not supported by Mr Elias of the VVD. Then he'll blame me for obstructing Schiphol and KLM? My nose! I'm really pissed off about that. No one's gonna do that to me. We can't be lied to here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u104	You're angry about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u105	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u106	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u107	Mr. Chairman. I shall first table the motions, so that at least they are tabled within the time limit. Then I will see if I can explain this further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important for the Netherlands that KLM retains an independent position within the Air France-KLM group;]] [[noting that KLM should therefore continue to be able to invest as an independent airline and that this includes an independent position in financial management;]] [[noting that KLM's interconnection network and partners are of strategic importance for international accessibility, employment and the Dutch economy;]] [[noting that the Dutch State is a shareholder of KLM;]] [[calls on the Government, with due regard for everyone's powers and control, to give a strong commitment to maintaining KLM's financial independence before 2 February in the direction of the Air France-KLM summit and the French Government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Air France has made billions of losses since the merger and that KLM has made more than one billion profits;]] [[considers that it is undesirable that KLM profits should be used structurally to compensate for losses in Air France, especially since Air France has barely made any savings itself and KLM has;]] [[Calls on the Government, after consulting KLM, SAK I, SAK II, Air France-KLM and the French Government, to present a long-term plan for KLM to remain a healthy airline, the profits of which are not skimmed to compensate for structural losses in Air France;]] [[also invites the Government to submit to the Chamber the outcome of these consultations and the resulting plan for consultations on State participations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Leenders, Mr Elias, Mr Graus, Mr Bashir and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-247]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-248]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u108	Mr. Chairman. There was unrest about the conflict within Air France-KLM. Whether this unrest is completely out of the question is only the question. The most recent news reports that KLM continues to talk about its own greenhouse are no more and no less than a positive signal. The Secretary of State put it that way. She thinks it's going the right way. For us as politicians, the question is still important what the cabinet can do in this situation. That question was important at the beginning of the debate and is still important today. I had hoped for a clear answer from the Secretary of State. She has done her best in this debate. A clear answer is, of course, that it is either the holding company itself or the cabinet, or it does have influence and it uses it. I assume the latter when I hear the answer from the Secretary of State. She said she would do everything in her power to safeguard the interests of an independent KLM. I would like to ask the Secretary of State two questions. It is an effort obligation and that means that it is not excluded that we will be back here again, because another conflict in the boardroom has come out. Does the Secretary of State consider that the importance of KLM's independence may be at stake? Is she prepared for that? I would also like to make a specific agreement with the Secretary of State on how she will inform the Chamber on this matter. I would therefore like to prevent us from having to come this way again after a report in the media. I conclude with the words of the Secretary of State that she has a blue heart, but it is of course the art of sharing this blue heart with her French colleagues. This is necessary in order to safeguard the interests of KLM and Schiphol, which we all support in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mr. Chairman. I am curious to hear the response of the Minister of Finance to the figures I have drawn from Air France-KLM's annual reports. I hope that the Secretary of State will recognise the urgency of this problem when she is informed by the Minister of Finance. If this continues, we will talk about KLM more often in the coming period. I hope, of course, that this will not be necessary, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas KLM should be preserved in view of the major national interest in employment and economic development;]] [[calls on the government to examine the possibilities, should this be necessary, to intervene as a government to ensure the future of KLM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that airlines from many Gulf countries are directly and indirectly subsidised by their government, visible and invisible;]] [[whereas this gives the Golf carriers a competitive advantage over KLM;]] [[calls on the government to present a picture of unfair competition and the possibilities for achieving a level playing field. and to inform the House of Representatives within eight weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-249]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief. I disagree with Mrs. Hachchi. Informally, a cabinet always has influence. I believe that the Secretary of State has rightly indicated that she is trying to use that influence. I also hear positive things about this, for example about her discussion on the French flight tax. The Secretary of State cherishes the KLM. She's got a blue heart. We all have that, and that is reflected in the motion that has been tabled in Chambers and which should be regarded as a call. However, I would like to point out that the motion states 'while respecting everyone's powers and control'. It's really important to keep an eye on that. Yesterday's positive signal, the informal attempts by the cabinet to maintain KLM's position and the statement by the Secretary of State on what she calls the "multihub" has my full support. This multihub also means ensuring that both parts of the group, Paris and Schiphol, are able to make good use of it. Finally, I would like to call on my colleagues to repeat this: do not make the Schiphol area too difficult, because this will also help the KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mr. Chairman. In order to give the Secretary of State a boost in the discussions with her partners in France, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch State, as shareholder, has a 5.9% stake in KLM;]] [[calls on the Government to press for intervention in the loss-making branch of the holding company, namely Air France,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u112	Mr. Chairman. I can keep it short, too. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear and strong answer to the many questions that have been asked this evening. As a Chamber, we have given her an effort obligation. We are convinced that it will honour this obligation. The signal towards KLM, Air France-KLM and the French government is clear: we are against a French takeover of financial management and thus the loss of KLM's independence. We do not want that now, nor do we want it later. That is why we would like to co-sign Mr Van Helvert's motion, a motion that sends a clear signal from almost the entire Chamber, indicating that we support the KLM and its staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u113	As the last speaker in the second term on the part of the Chamber, I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u114	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers she has given to the questions raised, including by my group. I totally recognize the blue heart she was talking about. I can tell you that my first school trip was to Schiphol and KLM. At that time, I think I was about 6, 7. That school trip really made an unforgettable impression on me. Anyway, that aside. The Christian Union considers it very important that KLM holds autonomous financial management. We have asked the Secretary of State about this. The Secretary of State has responded that she wishes to do so, but cannot give any guarantees. My group attaches great importance to the fact that, as a Chamber, we underline the commitment of the Secretary of State. That is why my name is also under the motion tabled by the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u115	This brings to an end the second term of office. The Secretary of State needs a short suspension to prepare for her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr. Chairman. I have six motions and one question. I shall begin with Mr Graus' motion on item No. 246. I've talked about guarantees before. Mr Elias asked for an explanation of Mr Graus' motion. In view of Mr Graus' explanatory statement to the motion, I cannot give those assurances. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 247 calls on the government, with due regard for everyone's powers and control, to make a strong commitment to maintaining KLM's financial independence before 2 February 2015 towards the Air France-KLM summit and the French Government. I think it is very important that KLM retains an independent position within the Air France-KLM group to operate as an airline with an extensive network and with Schiphol as its base. This is very important for the accessibility and establishment of international companies and for employment. As I said, I am committed to everything that I can take political weight with. I think it is important that you give me this motion, because I can show that there is a parliament in the Netherlands that feels the same way as I do. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr Graus has a question on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u118	That's right. I ask the government to do everything possible within the government's powers to obtain guarantees. The Secretary of State doesn't even try and then says she can't get it. She doesn't know that at all, does she? I'm just asking you to do everything you can to get those guarantees. She hasn't even gone to France yet, but immediately she says, "I'm sorry, I can't do that." I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u119	I must say, I doubted when I heard the motion. I would like to explain the motion in such a way that I try within the powers I have. However, Mr Graus explained the motion in such a way that he wanted guarantees. If Mr Graus asks the government to do everything possible within its powers, we will reach the second motion. I said I'd like to take that signal with me. Mr Graus is making it difficult for me and I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u120	Mr. Graus, would you like to speak through the microphone? Then everyone can hear your reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u121	I don't think what's happening here is fair. I understand no one wants to help the PVV any further. I am actually asking much less than what Mr Van Helvert is asking. I'm just asking you to do everything possible to get those guarantees. I'm not saying I want it, I'm just asking the Secretary of State to try to get those guarantees. That's all it is. Then it cannot be that a motion which calls for much more is left to the judgment of the Chamber and that my motion is discouraged. That's not fair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u122	I've said what I said. With the explanation of the guarantees, I will continue to dissuade the motion. I really want to make an effort to meet Mr Graus. That's why I put it this way. In the motion in part No. 248 is asked to present a plan in consultation with SAK I and SAK II. I told you, I think it's up to the company itself to make a plan. It is a large company in two countries, which has to make a plan of how it faces the future and how it occupies a position. That's gonna be hard. Competition and the environment are changing, both inside and outside Europe. The organization itself will have to resist this by means of a plan. I am working from my political role to ensure that the Dutch interests are protected as much as possible. I can promise you that, but I'm not going to recommend the motion. The motion in part No. 249 calls on the government to examine the possibility of acting as a government. I've explained what everyone's role is. This will be discussed in the discussions with my colleague. How do you fulfil your role as a government, how do you deal with legislation and the system in your own country? France is different from the Netherlands on a number of points. You're gonna get the maximum out of both of them? Is this what the governments and countries want from such a large international organization with all the interests you serve in a country? Air France is a large company in France. It may even be the KLM of France; only we are blue. I can't intervene in an international company that isn't a state company. I therefore advise against Mr Bashir's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u123	I'm not talking about Air France-KLM at all. I'm talking about KLM myself. I also ask the Secretary of State not to intervene, but to examine the possibilities for intervention if necessary. The Secretary of State always refers to the responsibility of Air France-KLM and KLM itself, but I would point out that the Secretary of State is an aviation portfolio holder and that, in necessary cases, she should also have a plan to do something. I am not asking her to send that plan directly to the Chamber or to share with the whole world what it is going to do. I only ask her to draw up a plan and to make sure that she is well prepared, because we will not have to face up to things that we can't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u124	Mr Bashir's speech does not make it any easier for me, because now he is even talking about a plan. As I have just argued, it is not up to the cabinet to come up with this now. I therefore advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 250 asks me to take a look at what creates unfair competition and what opportunities there are for achieving a level playing field. I think it is important that we do so, but I do not think it would be wise for us to do so as a country. As I have said before, it is very important that this is done on a European scale. Not only the Netherlands, but all of Europe must work for a level playing field in the world. It is not just about Schiphol and KLM. It's also about France, Germany and England. Europe is experiencing the rise of the Gulf carriers. Air France-KLM must have a plan for this, but that will also apply to other airlines. Aviation policy is partly European legislation and legislation. I think it is important that this is done at European level. I said I'm working actively to get this on the table. I also mentioned it to my French colleague to take joint action in this area in Europe. In fact, I specifically said this in the presence of my German, Luxembourg and Belgian colleagues, because I think it is important that we all look at this in the same way as one Europe. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Mr Bontes asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. 251 to intervene. That's not up to the government. I've just been talking about roles and positions. I think it is important for Air France-KLM to become a future-proof company. This will not be easy, but the holding company is currently responsible for a plan. KLM is a full part of the Air France-KLM group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u125	That's not what I mean by this motion. The intention is for the Secretary of State to urge her colleague in France to reform Air France. I understand the Secretary of State can't intervene on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u126	When it comes to Air France-KLM, there will not only have to be a plan for part of the organisation. There will have to be a balanced plan for the total holding company. I do not think it is my position to urge an Air France-KLM CEO to intervene in the French branch of the holding company. I want to see the plan first, so that I can see what the strategy is and how people think they are going to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u127	That is the position of the Secretary of State, because the State is a shareholder of KLM. So we do have a right to speak. The motion is intended to encourage the Secretary of State to urge her colleagues in France to reform Air France. Otherwise we will be back in six months or three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u128	It is important that overall reforms take place and that the total group, with two home carriers and two hub functions at Charles de Gaulle and at Schiphol, make a plan, and that is not unilaterally intervened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u129	Can I ask the Secretary of State another question about the motion in part No. 250 by Mr Bashir? I don't think it's so unreasonable what it says. I imagine the Secretary of State doesn't want a major investigation. Maybe she'll find eight weeks a little quick. I can imagine that, too. The intention of the story is, however, to see whether the airlines from the Gulf States are receiving visible or invisible subsidies, whether this creates a competitive advantage and whether we can do something about it. To be honest, that does appeal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u130	I believe that an analysis of how the Gulf States influence the level playing field should be carried out in a European context. With an investigation into unfair competition and the possibilities of achieving a level playing field, I have no difficulty. I'm having trouble picking that up as a government. We have to do it as Europe. After all, aviation policy is European policy, based on European laws and regulations. If I am asked for an effort to raise the level playing field in Europe in the context of competition from the Gulf States, I am the first to act. I can promise. I have already told Mr Vidalies that it is important that we do so. In my view, however, the government's plan and analysis within eight weeks is too small. I think it should be bigger and take a little more time. I can see the urgency of taking action as a Europe. Our Presidency is coming. It seems important to me to see if we can arrange a number of things by that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u131	I hesitate, because you have already asked a question about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u132	I want to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u133	At the request of Mr Bashir, I propose his motion (31936), No. 250). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u134	I come to Mrs Hachchi's question. I understand the motivation, but she asks the question black and white. I have no direct influence on the decision-making of the company. I do have political influence, and I use it to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u135	I thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. I would also have asked if we could make specific agreements with the Secretary of State on informing the Chamber, especially given that it itself does not exclude that after 2 February the debate on financial management is re-launched.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u136	I said it was important for me to inform the Chamber. I need facts and will ask the KLM how it can ensure that this information becomes available. This is done by different means, as has happened in recent weeks. I have already told Mr Bashir that I will take care of that. I always do that as quickly as possible, but as carefully and as correctly as possible. I think that's more important than the pace. So you may hear it by other means, but I will do my utmost to ensure that the Chamber is always actively informed by the Cabinet. If the Chamber thinks it should be speeded up, I know that I sometimes get a request for information through a procedural meeting. He is always welcome. I will do my utmost to involve and inform the Chamber as soon as possible, but care and accuracy are paramount to me, especially in this kind of process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u137	That concludes the debate. Vote on the motions will take place tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon meeting.
