ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome Secretary of State Dekker. If Members can restrain themselves a little, I will not limit the interruptions. An interruption always goes in two stages. First, I give the floor to Mrs Siderius of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Practice education is doing well in the Netherlands. Practical education has a special position within our educational establishment. For learners who find learning difficult, practical education is the fastest route to the labour market. With a specific curriculum focused on the possibilities of the pupils, they receive education focused on personality formation, social skills and adapted theoretical education. It's a gem in the eyes of the SP. The quality of practical education is very high, says the Education Inspectorate. Practice education has the lowest percentage of weak or very weak schools and highly skilled teachers. About 28,000 pupils attend about 180 schools of practical education. This group of students is limited and delimited and very stable. Should we abandon this particular position of practical education and push these schools into the straitjacket of appropriate education? The SP prefers not to play with fire and advocates maintaining the high quality of practical education. We believe that there are risks if we integrate practical education into the appropriate education system. Why does the Secretary of State want to help such a good running school type, such good running education to the gallemies? My party has tabled an amendment to take practical education out of this bill. By settling the budget of support in the partnerships, practical education in the eyes of the SP will be put under pressure, for example in Zwolle and Enschede. The share of practical schools in the partnerships is small and therefore very vulnerable. As a director of practical education, you are at the table with a large collective of dozens of other drivers. How does the Secretary of State think that practical education should resist the demand for money to be put into the collective pot, as there are sometimes, unfortunately, major deficits? According to the Secretary of State, this bill prevents reference from being made to cheaper practical education from the more expensive special education. My party dares to doubt that. Should the partnership's budget for light or heavy support be exceeded, will the deficit not be recovered from the lump sum of all the boards within the partnership? School boards therefore benefit from keeping the overrun as cheap as possible. So rather an overrun on the budget for light support and practical education, than on the budget for expensive support with special education. I would like to hear how the Secretary of State sees this stimulus and how he intends to take this path. The incentive is also reinforced by the idea of this State Secretary to release the national criteria for practical education in 2018. The Secretary of State wants to leave vulnerable pupils to the whims of the partnership. That is out of the question as far as I and my party are concerned. Does the Secretary of State not agree with the SP that the educational interest should be paramount and not the financial interest? If each partnership is allowed to draw up a number of criteria for practical education itself, will the original idea of practical education not quickly cloud pupils into the labour market? It is precisely the clear criteria of, for example, an IQ between 55 and 80 and the criteria for learning disadvantages that make practical education so suitable for this type of student. When we mix these students with pupils with behavioural problems, physical disabilities or other disabilities, there is nothing left of the good idea that practical education is real education and not care. This can only be done with clear national criteria. Therefore, the SP supports even more strongly, it should also include in the Labour Party's amendment to remove the possibility of experimenting with the criteria for practical education through partnerships from the law. So the opt-out option is deleted. The SP also wants the Secretary of State not to submit his bill to release the national criteria for practical education in 2018, and will make a proposal to this effect in the second term, unless the Secretary of State says on his own initiative that he thinks this is a good idea. Whoever pays, decides. This expression is often associated with shady practices, where independence is far from being sought. In this bill it says literally: we lay it down and pay it in one hand. If this is not undesirable, I ask the Secretary of State. Shouldn't indicting pupils for practical education and learning path support education be done on an independent basis? Should the indication not look at education content rather than cost-effectively? Isn't that appropriate education? The SP would like to maintain the regional referral committee for practical education and split the allocation and funding. The SP has also tabled an amendment to this effect. It is also striking that the Secretary of State wishes to delete the Standing Committee on Pupils Care. The SP doesn't really understand why. Does the Secretary of State not think that it is desirable to advise on admission to practical education, especially now that the cabinet wants to remove all other securities from the law? Does the Secretary of State not consider the opinion of these committees to be competent enough? What exactly is wrong with these committees? Finally, the labour market for pupils from practical education. The aim of our education is to get students into the right place on the labour market. The SP is deeply concerned about the pupils who come from practical education. Where the Secretary of State is still spreading nice, outdated figures, my party is a bit more realistic. The government policy is not working very well for these pupils in practical education. After all, the pupils who come from practical education are not going to have a start-up qualification and, after the cabinet has demolished all kinds of facilities, they are not going to be able to go anywhere. Flowing to MBO level 1 and then flowing to level 2 makes little sense. Mbo level 1 doesn't actually exist anymore either. Today there is the entrance training, which allows students without a diploma to pass through this training to level 2. But at level 2 the calculation and language test will soon be mandatory for the exam. A director of a partnership says he has ten students who are no longer allowed to go to the roc because they will not pass these tests. The pupils of practical education will no longer have access to the benefit for young disabled people, the so-called Wajong benefit. The access requirements have been tightened as of 1 January 2015. They will soon be covered by the Participation Act and will receive a single assistance, with all the necessary requirements and obligations. These pupils will not be able to move to a social workshop, because the social workshops will be closed in 20 years' time. Access to the social workshop is no longer possible as from 1 January, as no indications are issued. Pupils in practical education also have great difficulty finding a place on the labour market on their own because of the lack of a starting qualification. Level 2 and 3 MBOs with initial qualification are already finding it difficult to get a job because of youth unemployment. Moreover, tasks in the labour market are becoming increasingly complex, sometimes requiring simply a level 4 diploma. Students are still eligible for daily spending in some situations, but we all know that daily spending is decentralised to the municipalities as of 1 January 2015. Municipalities themselves can determine the criteria for daily spending. Due to the 25% budget cut, demands and criteria are becoming increasingly stringent and fewer and fewer people are eligible for this. In the end, a student who comes from practical education depends on the goodwill of a municipal official. These students of practical education simply get into the tribulation, because after they have become 18, there is no turning back. What will the Secretary of State do for these students? The partnerships also have no structural consultation with the municipality on these matters, a care arrangement and the labour market perspective. How does the Secretary of State view this? Wouldn't it be good to just organise structural consultations? To sum up, no one in practical education really welcomes this bill. There are many professionals who say that they are only pragmatic about this and that they can try to scrape some budget together as well and as angry as it can. The question is therefore whether practical education is maintained and how the expertise of the access to the labour market remains at the level. It would be nice if the Secretary of State could give a clear and unambiguous answer to that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. With the inclusion of learning path-supporting education and practical education, today is the final step in completing appropriate education. This allows a well-balanced choice to be made between all possible forms of education support and hopefully the best place for each pupil can be found. At the end of last year, we talked about appropriate education. At that time, D66 expressed its support for the underlying objective, but we also pointed out a number of worrying cases where children are at risk of falling between shore and ship. The Secretary of State has started to do so. That is good, but we must keep a close eye on the fact that this implementation also leads to all children receiving the support they need. I also assume that the inclusion of learning path-supporting education and practical education in all their aspects will be taken into account in the progress reports. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? I can see him nodding now, but I'm sure he'll say it later. This point is very relevant. We're gonna let go of something and we're gonna go to something new. That is never without risks and with these children we must not take risks. I am saying here, also in the direction of the SP, but again in relation to the SP, which has often been the subject of discussion, that we should not idealise the situation as it exists up to now; that is something I say from my own experience. This bill should make it easier for parents to understand where they can go if their child needs support. By abolishing the regional referral committees, the so-called RVCs, the responsibility for both light and heavy support lies entirely with the partnerships and is prevented from shifting from heavy to light support, or vice versa. I believe that this creates a clear and effective situation which is clear to all those involved, but there is also one point that is unclear about, namely the criteria for the indication of learning path support and practical education. The partnership will soon determine whether a student is eligible for practical education on the basis of the current national criteria, but it will also have an opt-out. The partnership can itself determine the criteria for learning path support and practical education. This can only be done if all the boards and co-determination councils are behind it. At least I'm asking the Secretary of State to be sure that he is. This is in principle in line with D66's earlier pleas not to think from The Hague standards, but to give local people space and confidence. However, I still have some critical and enlightening questions. First of all, I fully understand that this is a repetition of the fact that an opt-out can only be achieved on the basis of unanimity and that practical schools can actually veto possible alternative criteria. In addition, the declaration of admissibility for practical education is valid nationally. What about if a student has received a declaration from a partnership that uses more flexible criteria? Is it possible for this student to go to practical education in other partnerships? How is the funding going next? If a partnership has established more flexible criteria and thereby attracts more pupils who need support, will this partnership receive funding for these students? Can the Secretary of State confirm that? The VO-Council points us to differences in the funding system. In the case of heavy support, the student's place of residence is decisive and, in the case of light support, the school location. Can the Secretary of State explain why this difference was chosen? Isn't this an incentive for partnerships to opt for light support, so that in the event of a move another cooperative may pay the bill? I would add that this is my position at the moment. I'm convincing. I know that there is an amendment by Mrs Ypma, of which I understand and appreciate the background. So far, I've indicated how I'm standing in it. The Chamber knows me as a fierce opponent of Hague standards. I would like to give the confidence, but then I must also have confidence that the good, even now the better, will happen for students. My final position will certainly depend on the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	I see you're loosening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	I figured I'd have to try something to get the ladies moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr Van Meenen is right to ask a number of questions. He states that he is not in favour of Hague standards. However, these objective criteria, which have been in existence for many years, give rise to great satisfaction. Practical education asks us, calls against us, writes our letters and calls on us to please do not depart from those objective criteria. Those same schools of practice, which are now calling on us not to abolish these criteria and not to agree with the opt-out, will soon have the right of veto. Isn't that a bit of a double message?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	For me, the organisation of education is not the goal. In the end, the child is the target. It's got to end up in the best place. Also in the current system, with very strict and strict criteria, a child can be seriously deficient. If you draw a line at a certain IQ and you are 1 point above it, then you are not eligible. There is flexibility and there is space you can take if you agree to really look at the child instead of some numbers, so I just say charged. I've also seen how it can make children short if you apply those criteria very tightly. There's my dilemma. I've indicated what I'm leaning towards now. Let it happen. That is why I am very much in favour of a very tight evaluation on this point. If it turns out that children are getting into trouble about who you can see in the evaluation that this should never have happened, then I am prepared to go back to that. For the time being, my position in this debate is that we give people the confidence that we first look at the child and not at standards first. Well, that's my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	That is a clear statement by Mr Van Meenen. Only practical education therefore asks us and sends a very clear signal to us. This also indicates that this flexibility is already available through Article 10g. 10% of children are already using them, with the difference that the practice school and parents have to agree to them. So they have a much stronger position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	I still have hope and hope that I have been able to convince Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	I love this position, you'll understand, but that's not what I care about. I understand it from the point of view of the practice schools and I hear it from them too. It is clear to the schools, it gives stability for the future et cetera. However, that does not determine me. For me, ultimately, what parents and children ask me is decisive. They ask for tailor-made work, which is not in keeping with these standards, even if there are exceptions. I've seen too much that can get in the way. Again, I am not convinced that we are now taking the right step. That is why I want to follow very closely what is happening. I have already said that much will depend on what the Secretary of State says about this. For the moment, I remain at my basic starting point: the less Hague standards the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'd like to give it a shot anyway. A little over ten years ago it was decided to take practical education out of special education, because we thought it should be real education and at least less care. Education had to be first and foremost, and that is really the case in practical education. This also has to do with the indications that are stated, for example that you have to comply with a certain IQ. Mr Van Meenen now seems to be inclined to go back. What changed in the meantime? What leads him to believe that care may have to be more important than education? He pointed out the danger that more children would be referred to practical education because this would be cheap. The fear that more children who fall into cluster 3 or 4 of special education, for example, will be referred to practical education seems to be justified because this is a financial incentive. Mr Van Meenen knows as well as I do that partnerships have to do with huge cuts. This does not apply to all partnerships, but it does apply to some of them and the latter really is with the hands in the hair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	Of course, I do not intend to see to it that we now return to a kind of care institution rather than an educational institution. I am also convinced that this is not at all the intention of the partnerships either. In addition, the practical schools are also included. I will put a supplementary question to the Secretary of State about this later. In the context of the right of consent of all players, I would point out that where practical schools are part of a larger administration, the management must first make an internal assessment. That is still a matter of concern to me. The sound of the practical school could just snow under in the desire of the board that gives a voice in the partnership. I shall put another question to the Secretary of State. I believe that in my reply to Mrs Ypma's question I have been clear enough about my intentions. They are aimed at the best education for children, and that is not necessarily related to very strict standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	That right of consent doesn't mean much. Mr Van Meenen probably heard this from the practice schools. If you're sitting there as a small school with dozens of other drivers, you're under a lot of pressure. How is a director of a practical school supposed to defend himself against this? How great does D66 consider that the risk of practical education being clouded is that purely and simply because of cost aspects, the influx is increasing and there are more children with other problems such as behavioural problems, children who are actually going to special education because they are not eligible for practical education? How big does D66 estimate this risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	There is no question of that either, but there is a risk. I share that with Mrs Siderius. If you give trust to others, it always carries a potential risk. I have been calling for this to be done on many aspects for years, because I expect that, based on confidence, the best things can be done for children with fewer standards. Where this trust is shattered, the government must assume its responsibility, including towards those who believe that they should do so. That's why I want that looked at. So there is a constant field of tension. Are we keeping it all here in a measurable and tight way, which makes us think that we are in the grip of reality, or are we not? Frankly, your question brings me back to the point of giving that confidence rather than your position. Let me also put the question I wanted to put to the Secretary of State in connection with the interruption. I know of situations where the practical school is part of a very large board, in which many regular schools, special schools and so on. That board then speaks with one voice in the management of the partnership, where decisions are finally taken unanimously. This is potentially a risky situation for such a practice school, as the SP and the PvdA pointed out, and rightly so in my view. How can we somehow guarantee that the voices of the practical schools involved will be heard? Is that possible, according to the Secretary of State, or is it only those administrations that make up the department? I realize that this question is complicated, but there is a risk there; the consideration has already been made in advance, and not in unanimity. The Board is not bound by unanimity before expressing its position in the management of the grouping. Finally. Yesterday, the General Education Association warned that schools had difficulty with the amount of paperwork, the many documents they had to draw up in the context of appropriate education. Creating a research document would be new for schools and would take a long time. Does the Secretary of State have this on his retina? Is the Secretary of State prepared to help or inform the schools in such a way as to reduce their time spent on this paperwork? It is good to keep a close eye on this too, especially with the forthcoming enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs Schouten will speak for the Christian Union shortly. I call Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. Michael is a cheerful boy, who likes to go to school and intern at a gardening company. Only he noticed in elementary school that he couldn't come with the other kids. He's got a lot going for him, but he's heard most of his life what he can't do, instead of what he's good at. It makes little sense to let Michael and other young people like him jump through the same hoop as their peers. What does work is to appeal to them on their own talents and train them for the labour market, by learning their professional skills that they will soon need to take a valued place in the labour market. An MBO 2 diploma and a starting qualification is simply too much to ask for for for some young people, because their abilities do not exactly correspond to the requirements for a starting qualification or because their personal situation does not allow it at any given time. This leads to frustration among these young people, their parents and their teachers. Not rarely does it lead to drop-out, no diploma and unemployment. We must prevent this vulnerable group of young people from losing contact with society. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, there is no child between shore and ship. The professional diploma, which my colleague Jadnansing has fought for each other, enables these young people to show what they have in their homes. They're judged by what they can do, rather than what they can't do. In addition, counsellors will help young people within and outside the school better on their way. In order to increase young people's opportunities in the labour market, an investment fund will be created, specifically for companies that make jobs available to young people at MBO 1 and 2 levels. These are the main activities in our Minister Bussemaker's plan of action for vulnerable young people. This also works very positively for children who get out of practical education. I hear a lot of enthusiasm about that. For Michael and other young people we take steps forward: they go through school with pleasure, although they do not have a direct view of a diploma. Every child is entitled to an appropriate place in education. Fortunately for young people such as Michael, there has been a well-performing type of practical education for many years. The PvdA is proud and careful. A little after Mrs Siderius' 'jewel', I would like to call it a 'pearl'. Practical education is not a form of support, but a full-fledged type of education, an education that prepares young people who are struggling to catch up on the labour market. We are talking here today about two categories of pupils, those who, with the necessary support, can obtain a VMBO diploma and those who lead us directly to the labour market. Primary schools are, of course, ideally suited to assess which students are eligible for additional support. They have a good view of the child, got to know him or her well in eight years and followed progress in the apprenticeship follow-up system. In the case of learning disadvantages, primary schools can assess the possible causes and, if necessary, examine together with the partnership what is the best solution for these children, close and integral. It's a decision that suits the students best. By integrating learning path support and practical education into appropriate education, the partnerships have the opportunity to provide support that suits the child's situation and circumstances. By placing all support for the students in the partnerships, they become responsible for the support plans and the support budget. Following the motion I tabled together with Mr Voordewind, this has not been cut back and we thank the Secretary of State for that. The Labour Party agrees with this bill which contributes to the integration of lwoo and pro into appropriate education. However, I would like to make a comment on the legislative proposal. It is important, however, that we ensure that every young person is put in the right place and that no child falls between shore and ship. Now we have the national objective criteria for this. They're working fine. Leaving aside the national allocation criteria for pro finds the Labour Party really worrying. The partnership can make very good decisions with these criteria. If partnerships all draw up their own criteria, there is a risk that children will no longer end up in the right place, that there will be arbitrariness and that there will be a struggle for the student. There is a risk that the pressure exerted by parents or the interests of other schools may overshadow the best interests of the child and undermine the accessibility of education. We can't let that happen. Let me be very clear about that. Moreover, there is financial pressure to allow more children in practical education, because practical education is cheaper than special secondary education. If partnerships are all going to invent the wheel, there is also a chance of new bureaucracy and overhead costs. The accessibility and protection of vulnerable children are therefore reduced. There must be eligibility criteria, but the current criteria are good. We must be proud and careful of this. Everyone knows these objective criteria. They are excellent and function well. There is broad and great satisfaction with these criteria. The possibility of customisation is already offered through Article 10g. This is also widely used. It entitles children to more than just education. Children are also being prepared for as independent a life as possible and accompanied towards the labour market. It provides clarity to parents, schools and partnerships. This will benefit both accessibility and quality. The Labour Party has therefore consistently stated in all debates and written contributions that it attaches to these criteria by which we continue to offer a protected environment to children with lower intelligence. Similarly to the sheltered workplace at the social work facility, these adolescents also need a sheltered learning environment in which they can develop safely and which takes into account children to whom you cannot see that they simply do not understand some things in the world. They need a school that teaches them to take good care of themselves. These children are internships internally and externally. Practical education is an instrument for their search for work. Practical education also monitors this for another two years after those children left school. By abolishing the national criteria, you abolish the protection of this vulnerable target group and take away opportunities for these young people. That is unacceptable to us, and that is why we are putting forward an amendment. Fortunately, this has broad support from colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mrs Siderius, this will be your second interruption. I'm going to limit it to three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	In any case, I am pleased that the Labour Party and the SP agree on these national criteria, but I do object to Mrs Ypma's little campaign talk about the drop-out of pupils. Ms. Ypma says they can go to MBO level 2. We can't do that anymore, and that's what practice schools indicate. Mrs Ypma mentions the social workshop and the sheltered workplaces. They can't do it anymore either. The Wajong is limited. It has always been very complicated to flow directly into the labour market. If you want to sign up for Mrs Klijnsma's guarantee jobs, you have to register in a target group register and that costs €1,100. What is left for students who leave practical education? Where are they going to be when the PvdA is tearing down almost the whole country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	Fortunately, Mrs Siderius and I are very close together in this respect. We both believe that these children need a good place on the labour market. They are very well supervised. They first do an internship within the school for two years, then outside the school and then the practice schools guide these children towards the labour market. Those schools also monitor for another two years whether this is going well and whether the students still need guidance. Indeed, it does not happen so often that children can handle the MBO, but some children still reach the MBO level and can enter. I think that's what Mrs Siderius and I both advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	Explaining the procedure does not add anything to this debate. This is what we are talking about. These pupils will no longer be able to enter the social workshops after practical training, because this influx has stopped on 1 January. The Wajong is limited. So they just end up in welfare immediately. There is a significant reduction in daily spending. Mrs Ypma knows as well as I do that many pupils who leave practical education are not immediately ready for the labour market. They often end up in irregular jobs, in subsidised jobs, and they are all being cut back. If you want to be eligible for the guarantee jobs of Secretary of State Klijnsma, you must first pay more than €1,000 to register to have a chance at all. What kind of labour market policy is this for these students?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	I do not think we want to train children for the Wajong or the social employment services. They're really the safety net we need for some kids. And yes, Mrs Siderius is right in saying that some children who come from practical education end up there. However, the performance of practical education is extremely good. Many children end up with regular employers. Let's keep fighting for that. Let us continue to do our best to ensure that practical education can continue to do so now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	I'm just filling in for my colleague Voordewind. I listened very carefully to Mrs Ypma's glowing speech. She is making a really warm plea, even more so, and she says in full force: those national criteria are needed to keep our appropriate education as it is. Is my observation correct, therefore, that Mrs Ypma will not support this law if this amendment of hers is not adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	Fortunately, I have the support of the Christian Union for this amendment. We will submit it together with a number of other parties, but yes, in the end the Court decides on it. I'm a real Democrat. I hope I can convince either the CDA or D66 or the PVV, because then we will have a majority for our amendment. Maybe I can convince them all; let me be optimistic about that. However, if the amendment is rejected, we will unfortunately have to accept a legislative proposal that is not optimal, because there are some very good things in it that we also agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yeah, I can count, too. I can also imagine that we need to get some more support. The point, however, is that Mrs Ypma has spoken quite a lot here. She has really said that practical education is at stake if we do not apply the national criteria if we do not stick to them. Then Mrs Ypma, on the basis of her own words, is partly responsible for the dismantling of practical education if she does support this law. Doesn't she share that conclusion with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	Maybe I should be clear about this. This bill proposes to apply the opt-out principle. That is what we are discussing, and that is what the amendment is about. The draft law does not yet propose to abolish the objective criteria. Only, in the explanatory statement, the State Secretary does indicate that he wants to abandon those criteria completely in 2018. He doesn't want to do that yet, but in 2018. In addition, he will probably use the opt-out principle as an argument. This means that this is the first step towards abolishing the national criteria, but this is not yet the case with the opt-out principle. That means that I can now agree to the legislative proposal, while at the same time stating that we are not in favour of abolishing the objective criteria now and also in the future, in 2018. We may be voting against such a bill at that time, but such is not yet proposed in the present legislative proposal. Finally, there are also concerns on the lwoo. I hope the Secretary of State can take that road. I recently spoke to a proud teacher of an intermediary between special education cluster 2,3.4 and regular education. He told me that in the first year with all the children in the class he discusses that they are there for a special reason in school; and that's not because they have feet of sweat, said the teacher. He proudly told us that they let children with a regular diploma go out there, so that they can then continue with the regular MBO. 94% of these children get a VMBO-T degree, a wonderful achievement. For example, Tim who has an autism spectrum disorder, but in four years' time has been prepared for regular follow-up education on the MBO by small-scale classes and teachers who know all children. The care takes place not outside the classroom with an orthopedagogic eye, but as much as possible in the classroom. This school with pupils with learning problems and social-emotional problems is more than expected to achieve good results. The school wants to maintain that, but is slightly more expensive than a regular school. The partnership now gets all the resources and previously the school received them directly. The Secretary of State, of course, does not have a glass ball and rightly has a lot of faith in education, but my group does consider it desirable to have the Court of Auditors examine the situation in 2017 and 2018. Because this must be of benefit to the children. Didn't a child fall between shore and ship? What does this mean for the budgets and for teachers and the quality of education? I would also ask the Secretary of State to take the opt-out, should the Chamber decide in all its wisdom to agree to it, which I do not hope, by the way. Can the Secretary of State agree to that? For example, I hope that we will be able to provide Michael and Tim with an appropriate place in education in the future, so that we can continue to offer them opportunities to work as a gardener, florist, auto mechanic or assistant cook or to follow up on MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mrs Ypma, like me, spoke about the importance of a very good evaluation in the future. We do not think that much will actually happen in the coming years. Mrs Ypma is even asking for an inquiry by the Court of Auditors. Doesn't that offer the possibility of abandoning the amendment for the time being and just seeing what happens to the law that the cabinet has in mind? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	The answer is no. I have five reasons. Firstly, practical education itself sees no need to abandon the national criteria. There is therefore no support, there is great satisfaction. Secondly, these criteria guarantee now and in the future that children will come to the right place. This gives children the right to more than just education. It is also a question of access to the labour market. Thirdly, it provides clarity to parents, schools and partnerships. This will benefit both accessibility and quality. Fourthly, it offers tailor-made solutions through Article 10g, which already offers a great deal of scope for the special scheme, but which also gives practical education and parents a much stronger position. Fifthly, we do not want new rules in partnerships that lead to differences and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'm just trying to get through all that. I feel that only a limited number of arguments really relate to whether there are national criteria. For example, parental rights do not depend on whether national or local criteria are applied. Can Mrs Ypma go through precisely those five arguments and explain why the abolition of the national criteria has an impact on them? I am not convinced that this applies to all five arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	Firstly, in their letter, the practical schools themselves state that they are very satisfied with the national criteria and that they do not want an opt-out principle at all. Secondly, you run the risk that children will no longer end up in that protected environment, because you're going to mix all kinds of target groups. Thirdly, there is a lack of clarity. Schools now know very well what they're up to. The same applies to the parents and the partnerships. They're all happy about it, too. There will then be new rules which are also different from one partnership to another. You'll only live on the border of such a partnership! Then one partnership has sister rules, and the other so. Working with that opting out therefore leads to uncertainty. Fourthly, the opt-out principle is not necessary at all. That is also what the practical education schools indicate in their letter. They can already offer customization. I mention the practice school in Bemmel which has been working with regular VMBO for three years and with cluster 3 education. It indicates that this is already possible for a long time and that the opt-out criterion is not necessary. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	This is an important subject. The CDA also wants to have this discussion well and is looking forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State. Why does Mrs Ypma think this is so important for practical education, whereas for secondary special education, a heavier form of support is not defined as those national criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	There is a big difference between the lwoo, in which there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with those criteria, which also lead to financial incentives, and practical education, in which there is a great deal of satisfaction with the objective criteria. Mr Rog and I probably both want to end the regional referral committees. That also torments the lwoo criteria. We then want an integral balance to be made between where children should end up. That's what the partnership can do. The point is that the partnership can use those objective criteria so that it is clear to everyone and we protect these children. Furthermore, we retain what is good, but we also change what is not content. Those are the Iwoo arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	Does Mrs Ypma agree with the CDA that, at the moment, for a heavier form of support in secondary special education, those national criteria do not apply? It makes a plea here, which will soon be properly described in the amendment, that it wants to maintain those national criteria. This is for the lighter support in appropriate education, but for the heavier support in secondary education those national criteria do not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u35	No, practical education is not a minor support. Let me take away that misunderstanding here, please. Practical education is an independent type of education. Lwoo is light support. The problem is that there are perverse incentives. That is why there is so much dissatisfaction about it, for example with the father who told me that he had to sign a form for his child with autism and he felt that there had been a change of personality because he did not recognize his son in it at all. The professional said: sign it now, I put it a little heavier, because that way I get some extra money. I don't think we should want these perverse incentives for finance. For this reason, we must support the proposals of the Secretary of State, but for practical education, where it really is a different proposal, we must continue to guarantee and preserve the objective criteria that work well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the integration of learning path support and practical education into appropriate education, the conclusion of a long discussion on appropriate education and, fortunately, one that is no longer accompanied by the previously envisaged cut in learning path support and practical education. The CDA Group is very much in favour of this. Today, there are a number of questions and concerns about this legislative amendment and the completion of the appropriate education in secondary education. According to the Cabinet, this integration is phased in and much information and demand-oriented support has been invested. This is done, among other things, with the support points. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether these support points are sufficiently familiar with the AOCs, with the specific problems and with the large number of pupils there with learning path support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u37	The CDA reads that there is a separation in the budget for heavy support in secondary special education on the one hand and the budget for what the Cabinet, unlike the PvdA, calls light support, in educational and practical education on the other. As a result, the references to secondary special education are offset against the budget for heavy support and the references to both learning and practical education are offset against the budget for light support. If the support budget for heavy support is exceeded, it will therefore not be recovered from the support budget for lwoo or practical education. Can the Secretary of State explain what happens if the budget for the light support is exceeded and what are the consequences for pupils in that learning path supporting education or practical education? Does the cut between light and heavy support mean that the resources for lwoo and pro remain available, or can they also be used for appropriate primary education, where there has been more growth in recent years than in secondary education? In case of light support, the school location determines which partnerships allow and pay. In the event of relocation, the partnership of the new school of registration pays. With heavy support, that's different. In doing so, the student's place of residence shall determine which partnership permits and pays. Then the first partnership remains financially responsible, even in the case of relocation. I would like to clarify this point. Why does the Secretary of State want to maintain this distinction, which is two different systems side by side? Does this not lead to unnecessary bureaucracy and administrative burdens? Is the Secretary of State prepared to evaluate the system of admission declarations and to monitor whether pupils from secondary special education or from practical education move to regular education for a number of years? In the report we asked for the expertise to be retained for the allocation. We are pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that the General Measure of Governance develops the integration of learning path supporting education and practical education into appropriate education and the specific expertise of the support allocation. We had also asked for an independent opinion. We would like the Secretary of State to promise that this will be done or that this will already be done. We didn't read it like that. I see there's a new chairman. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak here. There's been a lot of talk about opting out. I am very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State; that has now been shown to be the case. I would like to mention the following, as it did not come out very well in the interrupting debate with Mrs Ypma. I would like to see the difference between the heavy form of secondary special education, for which there are no national admission criteria, and the 'light support', as the government calls it, in learning-based education and practical education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u38	Can Mr Rog indicate whether or not these criteria existed for special education? Does he think that if we don't have it there, we shouldn't have it here, either?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u39	In the interrupting debate with Mrs Ypma, I wanted to make this clear. If you don't have it in the heavy form, what is the argument to maintain it in the lighter form of support? I take Mrs Ypma's amendment seriously. That is why I am very interested in the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u40	My question is whether these criteria did exist for secondary special education. In any case, I know that they exist for practical education and that everyone is very satisfied with that. We should not use the argument of pointing to anything else to say: then we should abolish it. Does Mr Rog agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u41	No, I don't agree with Mrs. Ypma in advance. I want to know why, if it is not there in one form, it should stay with the other. Or perhaps there are very good reasons for making this change, for example because it goes so well in the heavier form of support, in special education. At least I want to do justice to the needs of children. I can personally imagine that is why I have asked this question: 'A hard limit of an IQ of 79 or 81 does not necessarily lead to the best solution for children'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is in favour of appropriate education. We always have been. As far as we are concerned, this includes learning-based education and practical education. The legislative amendment we are discussing today will ensure that these elements of education also form part of appropriate education. This means that appropriate education is completed, and that is a good thing. All forms of support come under one roof. Parents and students only have to knock at one address and are no longer sent from the cabinet to the wall. As far as practical education is concerned, I would like to mention a number of other things. Practical education is an independent type of school as opposed to learning-based education. Practical education is intended for those pupils who are unable to successfully receive VMBO training but who are able to learn and work a profession. They are not only independent schools but also successful schools. About a third of students go to work or combinations of work and learning. About a third of these students also succeed in obtaining an MBO degree. Those are great results. Practice schools thus show that they can offer tailor-made work, both education and guidance to work. On behalf of the VVD, I have already indicated in previous debates that I attach great importance to training to work. For practical schools, it is crucial that school and work are closely linked. Only if this is the case will they have sufficient opportunities to actually guide their pupils to work. Continuing innovation is needed in order to teach these vulnerable pupils the profession in such a way that they can go to an employer. I like to go to practice school. The atmosphere I see there and taste of young people and their passionate counselors and teachers to learn a profession together inspires. Perhaps other types of education can learn from practical education in terms of talent development, broad education, putting the student at the centre, offering tailor-made work and leading to work. As far as the VVD is concerned, practical education should develop this successful approach much more. The fact that schools for practical education are now part of a partnership offers opportunities to make other types of education aware of this. A state of the art training to work for young people who can work well, but who may not be able to obtain a starting qualification, that is to say, what practical education adds to our educational landscape. Their voice may and should be heard in the spirit of cooperation. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. The Secretary of State proposes to abandon the national criteria and to allow the partnerships for appropriate education to decide for themselves which pupils will have access to practical education, provided that they all agree to this in the context of cooperation. As far as I am concerned, this fits well within the principles of appropriate education. The partnerships thus have the possibility to offer tailor-made services per region and to redesign support if necessary. Research shows that most partnerships want to continue to apply the current criteria. During his year's speech, President Peter de Jong of the National Employment Association indicated that no one wants to give up practical education. It is therefore mainly about the principle that you give the freedom of cooperation to make your own choices, because sometimes that is necessary. For example, schools for practical education on the borders of the Netherlands are facing shrinkage or will face it in the near future. This could mean putting pressure on practical education in that region. On the one hand, it will be difficult for that region to provide sufficient tailor-made work for pupils, because it will take some scope to offer a differentiated offer in different types of courses that can be learned. In addition, the total number of pupils can become too small a practical education to continue to finance all these facilities. Cooperation between schools, not only within the field of practical education but especially within the region, will then be necessary to maintain a differentiated supply with practical education at all. With the legislative proposal now before us, a partnership can, if all the participating authorities and thus the management of practical education agree, choose to adapt the criteria in order to increase the influx into practical education and to secure the supply of this important type of school in the region. This additional possibility for regional customization, with the agreement of all parties, can count on the support of the VVD. Mr Ypma has just indicated that she is going to come up with an amendment that would keep the national criteria for practical education intact. In our view, however, this proposal reduces the possibilities for tailor-made collaborations and, in this sense, reduces the core idea of appropriate education. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is important that regional tailor-made work remains possible and that we do not run the risk that too tight regulation will eliminate practical education in a particular region altogether, for example, in the event of shrinkage. The VVD considers it important that there is sufficient supply of different types of school in each region, in order to give all children a suitable place. As far as we are concerned, this includes practical education. If Mr Ypma's amendment can count on the support of the Chamber, I am considering tabling an amendment to refer to the current arrangements for individual tailor-made work, which Mrs Ypma referred to: to extend Article 10g (5) of the Treaty, so that partnerships can be added to their support plan so that they can include certain groups in the pro. With these last legislative changes we complete the appropriate education. Education itself is thus given the responsibility at regional level to get the best out of each child and to ensure that each child receives appropriate education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u43	The VVD has apparently become a bit childish today, because if the amendment is successful and the VVD cannot have it, the VVD itself is going to make a different proposal quickly, but well. The VVD says out loud that it does not want practical education to go away, but the national indication gives pupils, but of course also their parents, the right to a place in practical education. The VVD apparently wants to abolish that right and leave these students to the arbitrariness of partnerships. Does the VVD consider it desirable for us to abolish pupils' rights to the best and most appropriate education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u44	The VVD is in favour of appropriate education. In appropriate education, all children with special support in one way or another are considered. An appropriate choice should be made in these cooperation arrangements. We are confident that these partnerships will do so carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u45	The pupils who are now in practical education are vulnerable. We all know that. They are pupils who need to be well guided and supported towards the labour market. If the partnerships are allowed to choose a little at random, who is, who isn't, of course, parents have no right at all. Let us leave students to the arbitrariness of partnerships? Are partnerships allowed to choose randomly which follow-up education a student goes to? That's not supposed to happen, is it? If the VVD really believes that practical education has added value to our education system and that it is important that quality is high and that there are skilled teachers, shouldn't the VVD protect practical education correctly with national criteria rather than focusing on its disappearance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u46	The point is that I do not share Mrs Siderius' assumption that practical education will disappear through the incorporation of practical education into appropriate education. The studies show that everyone says: we want to keep the practice of practical education as it is. The practical schools are very well evaluated, both by the inspection and by other schools in the region. There is therefore no reason to assume that the practical education will disappear. The chairman of the association of practical schools also indicates that no one wants to give up practical education. We don't want that either. I find it strange that Mrs Siderius here follows this reasoning for vulnerable pupils in practical education, while we also have vulnerable pupils in special education. They are just part of the appropriate education. I don't see the difference between those two so much. My point of view is clear: as far as I am concerned, practical education is a type of school that deserves a place in every cooperation. There are also criteria, but I am glad that there will be the possibility, if there are reasons, of making other choices at regional level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u47	I am going to stand down as President for a moment, but I would like to make a comment, both against those who intervene and those who reply. The interruptions should be short and concise and the answers to them. I give the floor to Mrs Ypma. This is your last interruption; you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u48	In the supplementary letter, the State Secretary states that he wants to abandon the criteria completely in 2018 and that this is the first step. It is remarkable that the Secretary of State is already ahead of this. But does the VVD support those two steps of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u49	In the meantime, I have seen that we are going to monitor how this first step is actually going to go. I would like to await the information we will get from that monitoring and not anticipate a decision that will be taken in 2018. This will require a new legislative proposal, and we will look carefully at it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u50	Does the VVD agree with me that it is strange that the Secretary of State is already coming up with a proposal that he does not want to effect until 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u51	It's always complicated to look very far into the future. At least I don't want to do that. You asked that question to the Secretary of State. Let us wait and see what he has to say before we draw any conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you. You can do it, quick and concise questions and answers. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. At the same time as the appropriate education bill, it was decided in 2014 to maximise the total available budget for lwoo and pro, learning path support and practical education, at national level. This put an end to open-ended financing, which always carries the risk of an unlimited increase in the number of pupils with an indication. The aim of this budgeting was to remove the incentive to allow additional pupils from special education and secondary special education to flow into the lwoo and the pro. This integration into appropriate education is broadly based on two aspects. The partnerships will provide the support allocation and the regional referral committees, the RVCs, will be abolished. Good thing. Making two systems work side by side creates uncertainty, inefficiency and bureaucracy. We shouldn't want that. Secondly, the partnerships will be responsible for the budget of lwoo and pro. A number of aspects characteristic of the current system are maintained. This legislative proposal provides an opportunity for the individual partnerships that consciously choose to define the criteria themselves for lwoo and/or pro, the duration of the teaching assignment and/or which schools are eligible for the lwoo benefit. That's the opt-out option. There is one condition. Partnerships can only participate in the opt-out if all the boards that are included and the participation is also in favour of it. That sounds logical, but can the Secretary of State argue for us for a moment, because we have doubts as to why this system has been chosen? What financial incentives does this system bring? In what specific way would this tailor-made work take shape? Would the customisation in Groningen really be different from that in Middelburg or Rotterdam? I understand the shrinkage argument, and I think that is an important argument, because it is a tough problem. The pro as it now looks, however, is a success story. It is based on long-term expertise and on criteria that just work. It's a working system. What does opting out add to the quality? Doesn't that create another opportunity for proliferation and therefore a lack of clarity? There's a danger in there anyway. The proposal is to start integration into appropriate education as from 1 August 2015. Until then, the partnerships have been set up and they now have a year of experience in assigning support in the vso. From 1 August 2015 they will be given the legal mandate to adapt the support plans to the integration of lwoo and pro and from 1 January 2016 this support plan will enter into force. The partnerships will have the task of providing the support allocation of lwoo and pro on that date, and they will be given responsibility for the budget. I do have a specific question. The VO Board points to the inconsistency in that funding system. In the case of heavy support and placement in special secondary education, the student's place of residence shall determine which cooperative will regulate and pay the eligibility. In the event of renewal or relocation, the partnership of the first issue shall continue to pay. Light support for lwoo and pro is based on the location of the school location. In the event of relocation, the partnership of the new school will pay for the registration. This difference seems to be confusing. I can imagine. This can also lead to additional bureaucracy and agreements that are reached too late. Children suffer from this and that causes irritation to parents. Can the Secretary of State reassure the field and reassure us with a more detailed explanation? My final question is whether the Secretary of State would also like to explain why the implementation of appropriate education, as far as we are concerned, was rightly chosen for settlement between the different regions of the Community, where there was an imbalance in debt and not in the integration of lwoo and pro into appropriate education? I think that is an important question, but I do not know whether the Secretary of State can answer that directly. Are there or were there notable differences in supply and demand between the regions in the past? Finally. The PVV has always been in favour of this adjustment. With the placement of lwoo and pro in appropriate education, the system of support is complete as far as we are concerned and the partnerships will be responsible for all educational support. This will make these partnerships more able to weigh up what education support is needed and make the system more efficient. We are happy to agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u54	I think we're in about the same position. I'm leaning towards more space and I have a question about that. Mr Beertema rightly says that it is a success, but the question is, of course, whether it is a success because of the standards. I can very well imagine that it may also be a success for more children than can be accepted under these standards today. In principle, I would like to give that space. I have a lot of hesitations, too. Our contributions were almost the same in that respect. Mr Beertema was not at my speech, but perhaps he heard it. But can Mr Beertema also go along with the argument that you could give the opportunity to collaborations to apply different standards in order to perhaps allow more students to share this success?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u55	I've heard at an early stage that D66 and the PVV were pretty much on the same page. My collaborator was extremely surprised and let me know by courier. So it's possible. I understand the trade-off. However, these eligibility criteria are part of the whole, including the whole of the success story of pro. Going to work on that is a danger. You shouldn't disturb a good laying chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u56	A brooding chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u57	Neither is a good laying chicken. I have two chickens and I know a lot about them. One is called Fleur and the other is called Agnes. If we move in the direction suggested by Mr Van Meenen, there will be advantages, especially when it comes to the problem of shrinkage. But at the same time you're stretching things up a little bit and giving you room again anyway. I'm not saying it's happening for perverse stimuli and so on. Perhaps we are also trying to limit it to unwanted growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u58	With us all alarm bells also go off if we agree to such a high degree. I asked all kinds of questions about this in the first period. I therefore have no further question to Mr Beertema. Let us first hear what the Secretary of State has to say to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u59	That's what I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u60	You guys agree on that, too. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. Education and practical education are important forms of education for some 100,000 pupils. It is very important for these young people to be able to attend education. They often succeed within the VMBO, with additional support to obtain the diploma. Or they go to practical education to be led to a job. If it succeeds, it's really a top performance. In the coalition agreement, there was a structural reduction of EUR 50 million in learning-based education and practical education. That was 10% of the budget for this kind of education, an irresistible choice. Fortunately, in the autumn agreement, the Christian Union has been able to reverse this austerity. During the discussion of the education budget in 2012, this was further completed by means of a motion. Unfortunately, the concerns of the Christian Union have not been removed when I look at this legislative proposal. First of all, I would like to ask about the need for the legislative proposal. The Secretary of State acknowledges that the numbers of pupils in both the Lwoo and the Pro have been stable in recent years. There is therefore no question of a transfer by other types of school, such as secondary special education. In practical education, it is also a separate type of school, with a distinct character. Practical education is also included as a separate type of school in the Secondary Education Act. However, it seems that the Secretary of State intends to treat practical education as a form of special education. Is that right? I'd like a response. The government chooses to shift the indication from the Regional Referral Commission to appropriate education. That in itself is an understandable choice. However, there is also a cut in the funding, in a basic part and a support part. The support part should be carried out through the partnerships from 2016. This consciously chooses to consider the budget as a determining factor in the indication. That really is a tilting in relation to the current situation. In 1998 the choice was made to make a cut between the indication and the funding. The scenario that some of the setbacks in other forms of support will have to be met by practical education is not unthinkable. In the long term, therefore, this legislative proposal could lead to larger classes in practical education, driven purely by the method of financing. The partnership can determine the student's funding. Why does the Secretary of State choose to remove the cut again? There is no budgetary or substantive need for this, is there? Does the Secretary of State recognise that division is an artificial solution, since schools will only receive the basic cost if admission to practical education has already been established? This actually means that both the basic cost and the support cost of admission depend on it. As has already been said, the Christian Union welcomes the shift from the indication of practical education to cooperation. As far as we are concerned, however, it goes too far to abandon the national test criteria. Again, there is a system that works well. I just heard Mr Bertema say the same thing. Then why do we have to let go of this all of a sudden? The Secretary of State will answer: it's opt-out, we're not going to let it go completely. But does he recognise that the step towards opting-out is actually taking a fundamental step towards abandoning the national criteria? Is that also the intention of the Secretary of State? I'd love to hear it from him. I would also ask the Secretary of State what the role of school boards in practical education will be in relation to the admission of pupils. The competent authority still has decision-making power. Is it gonna be okay with that later? I'd like a response. I come to the point of settlement. It is already applied in appropriate education. The Secretary of State says to decide in 2016 on possible settlement for lwoo and practical education. The ECPO's report, which laid the foundations for settlement, explicitly does not address learning and practical education. It is even explained that it was a conscious choice not to involve these types of education, because the number of pupils is stable. Is the Secretary of State still considering courtship? Does this not have a major impact on some regions which historically have a high level of practical education? How then should any blows be taken? How does the Secretary of State see that? Finally, a short question on another subject, which is not directly related to this legislative proposal itself, but to the target group: the state of funding of severely disabled pupils. The Court was given a commitment on this in December. What's the status?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. Recently, to be precise, on 11 December 2014, we discussed in an AO the preliminary start of the appropriate education, which started on 1 August. Schools can now offer students who need additional support better tailor-made work. We have also noted that appropriate education is not yet ready. In the coming years it will have to develop considerably, but the general picture is that many places in this country have already taken significant steps. The aim of appropriate education is to give each pupil an appropriate place of education. Appropriate education must therefore cover the full breadth of education. The present legislative proposal will also make the last two forms of education support part of the appropriate education system, namely learning path support and practical education. So the system of appropriate education becomes complete, you might say. This makes it possible to deliver tailor-made work to any student. The lwoo and the pro sit, as far as the heaviness of the support was concerned, there was some discussion about the "slight support" in the classes of regular education and the heavy support in the vso. With the integration of lwoo and pro, the partnerships for each student will be able to weigh fully what is the best place. This not only makes it easier and more transparent for schools, they no longer have to operate in two different systems, but also better for parents and pupils. There is no longer any doubt as to where the student can call for additional support: at the association or the regional referral committee. It will be clear to the students that additional support will be allocated in the partnership. They can no longer be sent from the cabinet to the wall. In this respect, I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen's remark that it should be mainly about the child, the parent and the quality of the appropriate place in education that we offer. In the partnership a good and broad consideration is made: what is the best place for the young? There will be no financial incentive for partnerships to send students to the lwoo or pro because they would not have to pay for it. The partnerships will now be fully responsible, both for the allocation of support and for the budget. So there are no different systems. The student will therefore no longer be given an lwoo indication which is a bit thickened, so it became so in one of the insertions called's' because that would be the cheapest option for the grouping. We'll all put that in one hand. What the student needs comes first. Schools will now have to decide for all students which place is most appropriate. The lwoo and the pro are integral parts of secondary education. Many schools face changes. The integration therefore requires great care; I think that everyone is aware of that. I am also always pleased with the content of the debate that is being held today. This proved to be the case in the autumn agreement on financing. The reduction in the resources which this cabinet wanted to see accompanied by this reduction in bureaucracy has been reversed. Mrs Ypma referred to this and Mr Voordewind has also made a strong commitment to this. This gives the partnerships the total amount of resources available to this group of pupils. Moreover, in order to ensure that integration is successful, I have opted for a phased approach: not all at once. The partnerships therefore have the money and the time to shape the allocation of the lwoo and the pro. Today, in the form of the legislative proposal before us, we are discussing the first step towards this integration. From the reactions to the bill, I understand that there are still questions and concerns. I come to four major themes that I would like to treat as cubes. The first is: what is actually the position of practical education and how can that position be properly safeguarded? The second issue concerns the abandonment of the criteria and the possibility of opting out contained in the legislative proposal. The third issue concerns a number of questions on funding. The fourth theme concerns the implementation and functioning of the partnerships in practice: how do we keep a finger on the pulse and how can we support partnerships?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u63	Before I give you the floor, Mrs Ypma, I would like to say that there may be no more than three interruptions. It is up to the members to see which part they commit to. The interruptions should be short and powerful, as should the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u64	Clear. The Secretary of State says that there will be no financial incentive, but does he agree with me that practical education is much cheaper than the vso and that unbridled growth has taken place in the vso?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u65	There are differences in funding, including between practical education and training.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u66	It's a bit of a shame I get the answer that there's a difference in funding. It is true that practical education is much cheaper than the vso. The Secretary of State knows that, too. Does he agree with me that there is a financial incentive to allow more children to receive practical education and that this could lead to a blurring of the protective environment for children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u67	There are many forms of heavy support in the Netherlands. They cost a lot of money, too. In the whole appropriate education, we give schools and school boards the confidence to make sensible decisions in the partnerships. A place in mainstream education is always the cheapest, even cheaper than practical education. Practical education is cheaper than secondary special education. I do not believe that secondary special education and practical education are going to disappear one-on-one because we are giving schools more room for manoeuvre. On the contrary, we give schools the obligation, even with a duty of care, to provide a suitable place for pupils. For the time being, I have reason to believe that this is what we see in practice too, namely that partnerships deal with this in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u68	In his introduction, the Secretary of State said in a subtlety that the incentive formation is very much affected by a number of parties. I assume that's what he was referring to as my input. It is not so much that the SP has invented this, but the warning of these risks comes from the practical schools themselves. They do see this financial incentive. The Secretary of State knows as well as the rest of the Chamber that practical schools have a very small influence in the partnerships. They're gonna have their backs against the wall. The risk of dilution is true because more children who would normally go to special education because of the financial incentive are still being transferred to practical education. How will the Secretary of State maintain practical education in its present form?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u69	I feel that we are somewhat pre-empting the debate on the national criteria for practical education and the possibility of opting out. To reassure Mrs Siderius, I would like to say two things. First of all... The funding per pupil per place in practical education has been established nationally. If a student goes to practical education, he will receive a fixed funding. This also means that there is no risk for large classes, as Mrs Siderius suggested. However, I believe it was Mrs Schouten who suggested that. Second. The debate on the national criteria and their possible abandonment would start in 2017 on the basis of legislation. At the moment, we are not letting go of those criteria. This bill offers the possibility of opting out. If practice schools don't feel good about it, they can stop it. They de facto have a veto to hold on to the old system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u70	Of course, this is not an answer to my question. My question was not about the national criterion, but about the financial incentive of cooperation because practical education is much cheaper than special education. Collaborations that often already have to cut costs, I have given examples of this in my contribution to deal with large deficits. They must be able to knit everything around and of course they want to do so as well as possible. They can then decide to send children who would normally go to special education to practical education because it is cheaper. That incentive is indeed in this law. I have asked the Secretary of State how he intends to remove this incentive, but apparently he does not acknowledge it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mrs Siderius assumes that this is only about financial incentives. In that case, all children without any kind of support would be immediately sent to regular education, because that is the cheapest of all. I don't believe this is happening. It can't be, because we're monitoring it. We want students to have good support and find a suitable place. I see that it works well in the appropriate education system for the vso which was also subject to national criteria. I can see that it works well in primary education; although there are other forms of cooperation, there are also special education and special primary education. That is where we abandoned the criteria. Therefore, I do not see why we should now make an exception for this one form of education and not rely on cooperation. I come to my first topic, which relates to the position of practical education. Several spokesmen have spoken warm words about this and I share their words. It is important for the integrality that practical education becomes part of the system of appropriate education. In this way, the most appropriate place for a student can also be determined in the region. I would like to stress once again that practical education is incredibly important in this regard. Practice schools currently suffer as partnerships more students than previously recommended to go to the pro. If there is an increase in the number of pupils in practical education, the budget per pupil will fall. This can no longer be done if practical education is integrated into the appropriate education system. This is one of the important reasons for taking this step. The partnership is then fully responsible, the budget per pupil can no longer fall and the financial position of practical education is improved as a full part of the partnership. The importance of practical education is beyond me. There will always be demand for the specific supply of practical schools. Many parties, both in education and abroad, are satisfied in my opinion. After all, these schools are perfectly capable of preparing young people for the labour market. Partnerships must have an inclusive offer, including for the target group of practical education. I will closely monitor developments over the coming period. I will pay particular attention to the position of practical education in the partnerships. Mrs Straus asked whether I agree that the voice of practical education should be heard in the partnerships. The answer to that question is a short and full yes. Practice education is an important type of school that has long been proven. I therefore trust that practical education will not only make its voice heard in the partnerships, but that it will also be seen and exploited in full. Mr Van Meenen has asked whether I expect the sound of practical education to snow under in cooperation. I am not immediately afraid of that, because even when I talk to schools in mainstream education, i.e. regular VMBOs and secondary special education schools, I hear that everyone sees the specific and important task of practical education for specific pupils. The partnership therefore needs practical education in order to really come up with a comprehensive offer. I cannot therefore imagine a partnership if there is no practical education. The practical schools are often the smaller parties within the partnership, as are many schools for special secondary education. It is therefore important to focus on how this role will work in the monitoring and evaluation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u72	Schools have no small role in the partnership, they have no role at all. The parties with a role in the cooperation are the boards. Very often practice schools are part of a larger administration, in which there is a lot of regular education. That's where I care. Within that board, a decision for opting-out can be made, while the school of practice has many good arguments for not doing so. The administrative vote will then enter the administrative meeting of the grouping, which could result in unanimity. What am I looking for? If there is real unanimity, there must be the possibility of holding on to opt-out and not falling back on the standards we are now familiar with and making them victims, so to speak. Is there any way to really strengthen the position of the practical school, for example through participation? I am considering tabling an amendment to strengthen the participation of the practical school in such a way as to prevent the opt-out from taking place without unanimity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr Van Meenen has a point. There are practical schools that are self-employed and have a direct voice in the partnership. It's different when a practice school is part of a larger board. Moreover, I assume that a large administration will stand up for the interests of all its schools, including those of practical education, and that it will pay particular attention to them, especially in decisions which have a significant impact on this particular form of education and less on other forms of education. I expect the mobile phones at the administrative level to be critical in that respect. So I think this will work out in practice. If you want to add an extra check, for example by giving a separate vote to the headmaster of a practical school, it will indeed have to be changed by law by means of an amendment or a letter of amendment. I am not against this immediately, but this is yet another increase in the structure of participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u74	When I look at the vote in the Chamber on this subject, I suspect that it can move in two directions: either to leave all the rules as they are and not to opt-out, as the Labour Party's amendment wants; or to allow opt-out, but with some sort of assurance of real unanimity within the grouping, for example through my amendment. I also see the need for a legislative amendment to this effect. My question to the Secretary of State is quite simple: if the Chamber goes one way or the other, what would it prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u75	My first preference is, of course, for the legislative proposal to be adopted as it stands. If I had to choose, it would be my preference to allow tailor-made work at regional level, so that the opt-out is applied, while the practice school is supposed to agree. If you want the practice school to have the last vote within the larger school boards, I would like to go along with that variant; especially because in my view opting out has a number of advantages. I will deal with this later. I can quickly complete the point of the position of the pro. Mrs Siderius asked whether the pro will not be under too much pressure, for example through settlement. Finance always plays a role, including in the partnerships, but there are also several safeguards in place. At the level of cooperation, there is participation in the support plan. There is an obligation to cover the offer. There's supervision of the inspection. Moreover, and schools at disputes can go to the National Arbitration Committee on Partnerships for appropriate education. Parents can contact the Disputes Committee for appropriate education. The Christian Union Group asked a question about larger classes. I think I answered that question. It is precisely in the current system that there is a risk of larger classes, because there is national budgeting. There are more references to the pro, so with the same money more students need to be served. With this change of law, practical education becomes part of the larger picture and a fixed funding per pupil goes to practical education. In that sense, there is no need for larger classes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u76	My question was about the cut in funding between a basic part and a support part. The basic part is indeed established, but the decision on the support part is taken by the partnership. This may mean that a setback may have consequences elsewhere in practical education. Does the Secretary of State recognize this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u77	In my view this will not be the case, precisely because the award of practical education will soon become a fixed amount. The partnership must come to fruition. If a lot of children need heavy support, if they need light support and financial support, then all schools will have to pay for this rather than practical education, as is the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u78	Let me put the question in general: does the Secretary of State exclude that this will not lead to larger classes in practical education? Can he promise to do that? So now we can offer that certainty to all these practice schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u79	There's no financial need to do that. I'm just saying it the way it is. We don't send on the size of classes. Even now you can see that there are differences in class size in practical education. However, there is no financial incentive for practical schools to become larger classes in the future. There's a risk now. Then I come to the second issue, the main one for me today, namely the national criteria for practical education. It has been asked why it is necessary to release the criteria for lwoo and pro. The principle of appropriate education, which we discussed very widely in 2011, and which was accepted by the vast majority of the Chamber, is that in the region, within the partnerships, it is determined which place is most appropriate for the student. Practical education serves a broad group of pupils, on the one hand those with a low IQ who read and write at the level of a pupil in group 4, on the other hand those who can hardly obtain a VMBO diploma, but can become a fine painter or cleaner. The unique selling point of practical education is that all these pupils are being prepared for the labour market. That's what the pro is incredibly good at. It often has a large network in the region. His achievements, the cases in which they manage to finally get children to work, are impressive. I'm proud of that. By abandoning the criteria, the school for practical education can continue to focus on and specialise in what is needed in the region. Schools can also look at what is happening in the region. The regions are different and the labour market is also different. For example, practical education can continue to specialise in specific groups of young people or in its labour market-leading role. This will enable even more young people to benefit from the added value of this education for young people who have difficulty in obtaining a diploma, but who may also be able to get to work without a diploma. I think that this is important and also fits in with a lot of other changes that have been taking place in recent times. As a result, schools can provide more tailor-made services in the region. By releasing the criteria for the lwoo and the pro, the possibilities and needs of that group of students can be looked at rather than at their limitations. As a result, we can look a little further than just the numbers; we can look at what children really need. Moreover, it leads to less bureaucracy. This means: no longer long indication procedures with additional keys specific to the lwoo and the pro, but at once making a good, broad assessment to determine what is the best place for a student. In the case of secondary special education, special primary education and the other forms of support, partnerships can determine the criteria themselves. Now, in the lwoo and the pro will also be determined by the partnership which is the most appropriate place for a student. This can only be done well by the cooperative schools if they are given real room, trust and responsibility from the Chamber and me. If this bill is adopted, partnerships will be able to anticipate the release of the criteria by opting out from 1 January 2016. In fact, this is only a very limited form of what I have in mind for the longer term, also because I think that the final abandonment of the national criteria should be done carefully again. I want to see what that means and how long that can be done. That is why it comes into the Chamber in a separate legislative proposal at a later date. I would just like to give that space to the schools and the partnerships that are already asking for this. There are schools that ask for that. These are not only schools in shrinking areas, but also schools in the middle of the country. I don't want to cut off those schools and ban them from delivering that customization. That would be de facto the result if you took out the opt-out now. That would also be the consequence of the announced Ypma amendment. I say to Mrs Schouten that, of course, we are taking a slightly different path, but in any case we will do so with regard to the lwoo and the pro if we make it an integral part of the appropriate education. I think, however, that it is a sensible way of putting an end to the various systems currently in existence. Mr Beertema asked: how does that look in practice? In what specific ways can customization be delivered via opt-out? For example, partnerships can choose to link the Lwoo and the Pro to the needs and other facilities that exist within it. It is therefore also important that we should not only be able to make an individual assessment, for example on the basis of the exception provided for in the law and to which Mrs Ypma has also referred, but also on the basis of the total offer. Schools and partnerships indicate that they want to see much more tailor-made work, for example, at the interface between practical education and lwoo or between practical education and training. For example, the region can allow more pupils to benefit from the expertise in terms of labour market leadership. This concerns not only their own practical education children, but also, for example, some children in the US. Practice schools can specialise and specific arrangements can also be created for students in lwoo and pro. That will indeed mean that there will be some variation. There will also be differences between partnerships, but the question is whether this is very bad. The situations in partnerships are different. Also in other forms of support you can see that it leads to a little more diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u80	I see Mr Beertema and Mrs Schouten now in front of the interrupting microphone, but I believe that Mrs Schouten was the first to be there. So I'm giving her the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u81	My previous question to the Secretary of State was what problem we are solving with this. Listening to the Secretary of State so far, that is still not clear to me. Many things he mentions are also possible in my opinion by working with each other in a different way. He also said that there should be more variation in the species. Well, that's quite a political discussion on which, I suppose, Mr Beertema will come back. My question remains which problem we are solving. There are already possibilities for customization within the law. Mrs. Ypma already mentioned that. So what is the real need to establish the opt-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u82	Let me give two examples. The first relates to the intersection of forms of support, for example the intersection of learning path support education and practical education or the intersection of practical education and further special education. I know, for example, a practice school in Utrecht that indicates that I want to have a little more space to help the children, which is not really possible. I find that interesting. So I would like to offer that space as we offer it at the intersection of other forms of support. Let me give another example: that of a practical school in a region where there is a strong shrinkage. In addition, small facilities such as practical education and secondary special education are getting in the way. Both schools are becoming too small to function properly. This can apply, for example, to the Zeeland islands. Then I think it is important to consider within the partnership how to ensure that education is combined and that good education is maintained, so that the children do not have to leave the island and do not have to be transported by vans. This also requires more customization and more space. I think it is important that this is not just a choice of an individual school for practical education, but that this is seen in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u83	The Secretary of State is, of course, setting out a number of very good examples here, but this may also lead to uncertainty for parents. They used to think that their child was eligible for a certain kind of education, but soon they wonder whether their child meets the criteria for it. The Secretary of State must not want the admission of a child to be dependent on the region's educational partnership.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u84	I think it is important that partnerships clearly indicate what parents are entitled to and where they stand. The great thing about appropriate education is that we stop thinking in boxes and criteria for once, saying: if you are in this box and score on a test, then you should go there. More attention is given to the question: which place best suits a child? That works for a lot of forms of support. This works very well with the vso, which in fact is even more of a form of support than practical education. We also see this in special primary education. So I do not immediately see what the problem is in practical education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u85	I listen very carefully to the Secretary of State. He's hitting this problem by two ways. First of all, this measure seeks greater flexibility, more exchange between the species which would then be too sold. He comes with an example of a Utrecht school. I don't think that's convincing. From this I can only sense unrest and mild chaos, where the children who belong to a school of practice cannot get away with it at all. I don't see how that extra customization can be designed. The second approach route is that he sees this measure as an aid to the shrinkage problem. Well, that makes me a little annoying. You're going to take a very generic measure to solve problems in a shrinkage area. I would say: do not do this generic measure, but think of tailor-made solutions for those shrinking areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u86	I, like Mr Beertema, strongly support tailor-made solutions. The charming thing about this bill is that we are not yet taking generic measures. I indicated in the explanatory statement that I think about this for a later date, but that it is precisely opting out that allows parties in the region to make good agreements on this matter together. So they're not from The Hague. The question on the table is just as harsh: are we going to ban customization from The Hague and say to parties who need to do something else, that is not allowed? That is actually the line proposed by Mrs Ypma. Or do we offer that possibility? I'd really like to argue for the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u87	I'm afraid of it anyway. These small practical schools are primarily teachers, often very passionate teachers. They will be part of large administrative partnerships controlled by professional directors. That's the way it is. I don't judge that value, it's the way it is. But those little schools have a huge backlog in acquiring a position in them. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Does he see any danger there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u88	I think that question is very similar to what Mr Van Meenen has just said: if you are now a small school or a practice school in a wider administration with other forms of education, is it not snowing under? That could be overcome if you consider a specific position. At the same time, I do not think that it is at all in the interest of school management or of partnerships to allow this practical education to be destroyed. Let us look at the results of practical education and how it is done, and let us see how nice schools find it for children who they know can't get a VMBO diploma but then go to a good school where they learn something and eventually find a job. That's worth so much more than just reason away, because then you'll be sitting on a regular vmbo with a kid. This is going to be a real tragedy because that child does not go there and eventually does not graduate. So it's not in the interests of school boards or other schools to get rid of it altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u89	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u90	I just gave some examples of schools asking for that space themselves. I also understand that the sector itself has been inventoried. Peter de Jong said in his speech at the National Preview Education Congress that about 40% of respondents from practical education indicated that the release of these criteria was possible. We are already very much ahead of that but it indicates that there is a need for it. In any case, with this proposal, we are offering the room for schools that want to start now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u91	I suggest the Secretary of State completes this section. Then Mrs. Siderius will have an opportunity to interrupt. Maybe the Secretary of State was done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u92	I may be able to remove some concerns, for example the care of Mrs Siderius and Mrs Ypma or later vso-pupils will not be dumped massively in practical education, for whatever reason. The partnership has both the responsibility to give all pupils an appropriate place and to ensure that the total offer within the region, within the partnership as a whole, runs smoothly, including its financial responsibility. The schools can make arrangements together where a student is best placed. This also means that the practical school itself can indicate which pupils it can serve but also which students it cannot serve. The practice school is in charge of admission to the school. In other words, the duty of care is not an acceptance obligation. I think that can remove the greatest fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u93	Were you done with this cup?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u94	Perhaps one last point, because I see Mrs Siderius standing at the interrupting microphone. Perhaps she feels that I have not yet answered the question as to whether the expertise is well secured. It has already been agreed that cooperation links in the allocation of support should also be advised by at least two experts in the field of lwoo and pro. That goes for heavy support. We are now proposing the same form of work for the light group of pupils involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u95	The Secretary of State mentioned three paragraphs ago the chairman of the partnership of practical schools. He said that the President said that 40% of the schools of practice think it is a very good idea to abandon these criteria. That means 60% of schools think that's a very bad idea. If the Secretary of State finds the opinion of the practical schools so important, why does he go after a minority of the practical schools and not choose the opinion of the majority of the practical schools? In fact, the majority says that these criteria are very important to us; that is how we can stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u96	With this bill, we do not force any practice school in the Netherlands to abandon national criteria if they themselves attach a great deal to them. This means that schools that do not see anything in it now should simply stick to those criteria and say: we want to continue to work with those national criteria. Then there's nothing to worry about. But I note at the same time that some of the practical schools say: give us a little more room; we need it. Mrs Siderius is then the one who says: no, but you cannot; you must insist on the national criteria. I believe that this legislative proposal is a very good medium-term approach by not requiring it to be abolished, not by maintaining it, but by leaving the judgment to schools at regional level, of course with practical schools in the lead as main stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u97	I have a letter in my hand here. It is addressed to colleague Ypma of the Labour Party. That letter comes from practical education. The first question is: how do practical schools feel about abandoning the criteria for practical education? In the extensive version of the research Fit and certainly a number of things become very clear. First of all, except for one school, all interviewed schools and practical education departments are for the continued existence of national criteria. How did the Secretary of State get that 40%? If he really had a heart for practical education, would he not say: we should simply maintain those criteria; we are going to protect those students and ensure that they are not left to the arbitrariness and coercion of all the other school authorities in the partnership?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u98	The best answer to that question is: we are doing this by setting it up as we propose with this bill, whereby the schools for practical education have a veto. They're not forced to do something they don't want to do. That is the most important guarantee, namely a legal guarantee, which we have here. I note, however, that there is a development throughout the whole debate on the integration of the Lwoo and the pro into the overall appropriate education system. At first, the whole of practical education was at all against everything we propose in this legislative proposal. I see that this is inspired by fear of cold water and that, over time, it is recognised that there are all kinds of advantages to it. You can see that a movement has started and that more and more practical schools are open to the opportunities offered by practical education. Mrs Siderius asked where that 40% came from. Very recently, a few months ago, there was Peter de Jong's annual address at the national pro-conference. Pro-schools were asked whether the criteria for practical education could be abandoned. To this, more than 40% of respondents from practical education responded, and it is not my words that this could be done in the long term. We see that this movement has started and we are building up the best security that there is, namely to give the last word to the cooperative practice school. I ask the Chamber whether we should ban it from The Hague. I wouldn't think that was a good idea. I will deal with a number of questions that have been asked about the funding. Partnerships will be financially responsible for the Lwoo and the Pro. This means that the partnership will pay for deficits, not the school for lwoo or for pro. If the partnership sends too many pupils to lwoo or pro, then the partnership gets the bill for all schools that are affiliated. I think this is the best incentive to come to a proper balance. The deficits of the partnership are settled with all the affiliated schools. The amount per school is fixed. OCW sets the amount per school, as with secondary special education. The partnership cannot reduce or increase the amount. That is also the answer to Mrs Siderius's question as to whether the pro is not subject to overruns of the partnership. That answer is: no, in the end that is a burden borne by the affiliated school boards, especially the school boards that offer regular education. Mrs Siderius has made a number of suggestions which directly affect appropriate education and which are completely contrary to the principles which a large majority of this Chamber has embraced, namely to place in one hand both the allocation and the funding. Mrs Siderius calls for a split, but in my view this only leads to less customisation and more bureaucracy. I am not in favour of that. The same applies to Mr Rog's more open question on the financing of heavy and light support. He asked if those are communicating vessels, or if they're more separate. The budgets for light and heavy support are currently separate. It has to do with the additional guarantee in the context of the settlement. This means that exceeding the budget for heavy support, for example for children going to secondary special education, will be offset against the affiliated school boards in the partnership. That is not at the expense of the slight support. It is also a guarantee for children who are particularly vulnerable. Mr Rog also asked about the use of resources between lwoo/pro and primary education. Suppose there's money left, can we move it? No, not about that band, because there are separate partnerships in secondary and primary education. They should, in principle, provide themselves with a cover offer and also contribute to the financing of it. If there are resources left over from the low level of support, then within the cooperation band, but not in partnerships between primary and secondary education in the form of grants, they can be used for other forms of support in secondary education. This is done from the point of view that, if schools in mainstream education indicate that they can be more able to cope with it, specific forms of heavy support will be relieved of the money saved for the benefit of regular education that provides light support. So there's no snipe there. Then a question was asked, also in connection with the letter from the VO-Council on the differences between the remuneration of the partnerships and the financing of the lwoo/pro and other forms of support, for example in the case of the vso. In fact, that is motivated by a rather practical reason. With the integration of lwoo and pro into the appropriate education system, we join the existing system as much as possible, but sometimes this can also be easier than in the rest of the appropriate education system. When it comes to the financing of border traffic lwoo/pro it is better and also easier to arrange it in a slightly different way in the vso. This has to do with the fact that we have taken over the historical percentages one by one and use this as the basis for financing the partnerships. Since border traffic is already involved, we propose that this should also be applied in the years to come by the partnerships. Despite the fact that it is a difference from the funding in the vso, I think that this is the most simple solution for the partnerships, because it also does the most justice to the money they have received before. If you give them money now on the basis of the current system, but add "you have to apply a different system to it," you will also have to deal with it immediately. Then you will see that some regions benefit from this and some others do not. I think we just wanted some peace at the front. Am I happy with this situation as a final situation? No, I don't think so. In the end, I think it is good to harmonise the funding around lwoo, pro and vso. My proposal would be to include this in a possible decision on settlement over time. As soon as you settle, you can easily make the cover. That's how it went in the vso. If we decide not to do so, then we still need to see whether we are making some adjustments to the system. For the next two or three years, I would like to choose to leave it as it is now. Financially, this offers the most peace at the front for the partnerships. Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union asked how we are going to deal with the blows. I suggest that we do not anticipate this debate too much today. If we decide on this, we must do so, as in the rest of the appropriate education, on the basis of sound and reliable research. That's exactly why I'm taking my time. If you go to settlement, there are always pluses and minuses in it. Just like in the rest of the appropriate education, you can do something to dampen that, but in the long run you'll be entitled to a certain amount of justice. It cannot be that only the pluses are compensated and the minuses are not extended. Then, of course, it is not a settlement either. Mr Beertema asked why it had not already been chosen for settlement. This has to do with a careful process, but also with the fact that we all have to have a real eye for the difficult task that the partnerships already have. In the appropriate education that has been carried out, there is a settlement mission that reaches 2020 and sometimes reaches 10% or, in some cases, even a little more. That is already a huge task. I did not think it wise to do so immediately. I'm coming to the end of this block. I would just like to say a few words about the further process. Integrating the lwoo/pro takes place in stages so that schools and partnerships are given sufficient time. Both the research and the signals that have reached me show that cooperation within the partnerships is generally good. Most partnerships choose to make changes very gradually. That gives me a great deal of confidence in the introduction of the legislative proposal that is now before me. There is sufficient time for the integration of lwoo and pro. The intention is to bring the bill into force on 1 August 2015. It doesn't change very much immediately. The PVCs continue to give indications. We do, however, ask the collaborations to prepare themselves for the integration of lwoo and pro. Integration will take place on 1 January 2016. Then the vc's will be lifted. Schools and partnerships are supported in the introduction by various organisations, such as the VO Council, the Platform Collaborative Partnerships for practical education, the Rural Association of Practice Education. From my ministry there are the account managers, who have done great work for the part of the appropriate education that has already been introduced. Mr Rog asked: if this becomes part of appropriate education, will it be included in the overall evaluation and in the progress reports? That seems very sensible to me, so that's what we're going to do. He also asked for an independent opinion on the allocation. Experts already advise on the assignment on the vso, and later on also on lwoo and pro. We add an additional expert for lwoo and pro. That advice is important. Eventually, the partnership takes a decision, but that is one of the things that we give this law as a guarantee and which we will have to evaluate carefully. Mr Van Meenen asked if we would give the partnerships sufficient confidence. I think the trust's good. But he also asked: what if that trust is embarrassed, if mistakes are made or if clearly bad things happen? We have said that once the law has been passed, we will not pull our hands off it. We're sticking to the implementation of this, which is what I think is the most important phase of the finger on the wrist, and maybe more than one. This is not only happening from my ministry, but also from the inspection, for example. It has a specific role in the monitoring of partnerships and on appropriate offers. It also has the ability to maintain and intervene if necessary. Mr Rog asked a question about the system of allocation, which is now being extended. Can it be evaluated and can it be monitored whether pupils are actually moving from the vso and the pro to regular education? It is therefore necessary to look not only at the appropriate supply, but also at the benefits of education. I think that's a very good idea. I will include it in the monitoring and in the evaluation and I will give it a prominent place in it. Mrs Ypma asked for a possible role of the General Court. The evaluation is now being carried out by the NRO, the National Institute of Education Research, which we have asked to carry out this evaluation. That's what they're doing on the trial. I might think that's the best way to do it. The review will not only take place in 2020, but will be kept under constant review. Periodic research is being carried out, reports on how appropriate education works out, where we see shifts in student flows. I am very reluctant to involve the General Court in this. It's not customary for these law reviews to take place. However, if I may take it in such a way that there is careful monitoring of what is happening by an authority that is aware of it and has that authority, then I think this is a good way to do it. Quite apart from the fact that I have already said that I cannot and cannot give an order to the General Court in any case. If I try, I will immediately get the chairman who says to me: you are not about that. The familiarity with the possibilities of support, specifically to the AOCs, which is a question from Mr Rog O'Brien, seems to me to be very good. We've already put a lot of effort on support. We will pay extra attention in communication with account managers to this particular form of education in green education. Mrs Siderius asked why the Permanent Committee on Pupils' Care (PCL) had been deleted. In my view, this expertise is already sufficiently secured. Within appropriate education, we have also abolished the PCL for heavy support and I see no reason to maintain it for this slightly lighter form of support. Mr Van Meenen asked for new bureaucracy. Of course, we give a lot of space to partnerships. He captures sounds that now collaborations are setting up all kinds of structures, with a lot of paperwork. That's not what I'm here for. Something has to be done at the level of the partnership, of course, because a good child's research is essential if a child is to be properly placed. We also see that when disputes arise about the admission of a student, the Disputes Committee first says: show us what you have investigated. That must be done properly, but it must not lead to huge piles of paper. We have taken specific measures, and we have been working together to share the good examples and to see where unnecessary bureaucracy is and how it can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u99	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u100	I'm almost done. I have two more questions. The first question is from Mrs Siderius, who deals with the care of pupils in practical education as an adaptation to mbo-1. For the sake of short, I agree with Mrs Ypma's good words on this point, namely that a great deal has already been done with the approach to vulnerable young people, recently presented here by the Minister, to address all the concerns that Mrs Siderius has. For example, there is a step to the MBO, also for students who may not be able to reach the level of language and calculation. There is also good consultation with local partners in municipalities or labour market regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u101	This is weird, isn't it? This Secretary of State, with the rest of the cabinet, first demolishes the whole country. All facilities for this type of student are broken down. The daily expenditure is reduced, access to the social workshop is reduced and access to the target group register for the guarantee jobs requires a lot of money. The math test is devastating for these students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u102	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u103	The math test is devastating for these students, because they never reach mbo-2 level. Where are these students gonna end up? I am very concerned about that. It seems, in particular, that this is also the warning given by the practical schools that these pupils are simply left unemployed at home in the bank. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u104	The aim of this cabinet is precisely to give this vulnerable target group a place in mainstream life, in mainstream society, and also to see if they can get involved with regular employers. Many of the measures we have taken, such as the agreements made with industry on the inclusion of vulnerable people, are in line with this. I think there's a difference of opinion between the SP on the one hand and the Cabinet on the other. The SP likes to see a large government with large social services and large social work facilities that these people automatically go to, as has happened in the past. However, we are trying to look at what people can do, rather than what they can't do. We help them with a place on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u105	This is crazy. Employers indicate that there are no specific jobs for pupils coming from practical education. You can also see it in the output figures. These students often end up in the daily business or in the social workshop. That's where the Secretary of State is gonna stand with his back now. He then referred to the guarantee jobs of his colleague Mrs Klijnsma, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. But what's going on in there? You have to register in a target group register before you qualify for a job and there is a chance that you can get a job. You'll have to pay $1,100 for that. How does the Secretary of State think these students can afford that? This is really the world upside down. It's outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u106	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u107	That's how we remember the SP, with roaring lyrics. However, I would like to say that we are really failing in practical education. Indeed, we see that practical schools are well able to lead students to a job, including in companies and public institutions in the region. So it's not a running race at all or a running case that those students don't get to work at all. So a little more trust. At least that's what I'm trying to do. Finally, as Mrs Schouten pointed out, a subject which is not directly related to this bill, but which one would like to know about. It concerns the state of play in relation to the financing of children with severe multiple disabilities. To support parents and schools, we have launched various actions, including conversations with schools for special education, parents and industry councils. A specific brochure has also been prepared. After all, there are two major changes that are intertwined here, both in the area of care and in the area of appropriate education. That also offers a backup. Further directions for resolution are proposed in the letter on children with severe multiple disability. In the motions, that's what was asked for. The Chamber will receive that letter in March, this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you for answering the questions in the first term. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. This debate shows that the cabinet gives a vote of no confidence in practical education. The cabinet also contradicts itself. After all, first, the Secretary of State says that there is no financial incentive, then to say that financial considerations always play a role in the allocation of education. That's weird. The Secretary of State also says that practical education does not come under severe pressure, it is a bit cold-hearted. I'm sorry, but with that, the Secretary of State, and with him the Cabinet, doesn't take practical schools seriously at all. He's trivializing their concerns. In any case, it is clear to the SP that practical education should remain an independent school type and should not be watered down by mixing with other types of school. I have two motions. The first concerns the criteria for practical education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to release the national criteria for practical education and the duration of the allocation of practical education in 2018;]] [[believes that abandoning the national criteria risks putting pressure on practical education and that a vulnerable group of children will no longer be protected;]] [[calls on the Government not to submit a legislative proposal to the Chamber releasing the national criteria for practical education and the duration of the allocation of practical education by 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33993-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u110	The next motion deals with the concerns of pupils who outsource practical education. They can't go anywhere. The interruption debate just now also showed that the government has no idea of the consequences for these students, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the potential of pupils who have completed practical training is becoming more limited;]] [[considers that the transition of pupils from practical education to the labour market, further education or any other provision should be careful and flexible;]] [[considers it undesirable that pupils who have completed practical education should be excluded from the picture of municipalities, health institutions, educational institutions or employers;]] [[calls on the Government to organise a structural dialogue between associations, educational institutions, local and regional employers, municipalities and health care institutions in which pupils from practical education are discussed and given the necessary guidance for a careful transition;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33993-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. I don't have any motions. However, I do have another amendment in preparation. That is precisely what the debate was about, namely the final strengthening of the position of the school of practice, i.e. not of the administration, but of the school as part of a possible decision on opt-out. I would ask the Secretary of State to send us all a brief written response to that amendment before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman. Who is coming out of this debate in the eyes of practical education as a savior of that education? I very much hope that one of my colleagues will take on this role, because we must be proud and thriving on practical education. It's a regular type of education. The admission takes place on the basis of the level of learning, as with the HAVO and the VWO. For this reason, there is a large difference from the vso, where there has been a large increase in the number of pupils. The number of pupils in practical education has been stable for years and is a support in addition to a regular level. I think it is important to stress this, because there was still some uncertainty about this in the first period of the debate. It is therefore logical that this should vary from one region to another, but we do not want the level of education in practical education to differ from one region to another, just as we do not want it to differ from one region to another. In practice, it is often small schools that are put under heavy pressure. My colleagues also speak with these practical schools, have received letters from these schools and have heard their calls: do not make this Hague proposal to us; we do not agree with this and we would like our children to be protected and the importance of the child to be placed at the heart of rather than financial pressure and bureaucracy. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support an amendment to ensure that these national criteria remain in place and that the special scheme can continue to offer tailor-made services to children. In doing so, we ensure that children who simply need some extra protection and for whom we all go through the fire get protection and that we, as good representatives of the people, really listen to the schools in practical education, take their signal seriously and amend the legislative proposal on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about learning-based education and practical education, but in fact we are talking about an appropriate education offer for children with an additional need in their own learning development. I welcome a number of commitments made by the Secretary of State in response to questions and requests from my group, including the monitoring and evaluation of the flow of secondary special education and practical education to mainstream education. We had a good discussion about the position of practical education. The CDA supports the line to achieve variation in the offer that is as appropriate as possible for students in secondary education: not the Hague mal, but the agreement of professionals in that practical education. It is therefore very important, on the one hand, that practical education should continue to exist at all levels of cooperation and, on the other hand, that these schools should agree to any adjustment of the national allocation criteria, i.e. in the opt-out situation. I support the request that will shortly be made by my colleague Karin Straus to the Secretary of State. This may lead to an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman. Appropriate education means finding the most appropriate place in education for each child in each region. As far as we are concerned, practical education is one of them. We believe that practical education deserves this place and that practical education in cooperation is not immediately at risk, because there are a number of safeguards. The Secretary of State has appointed it. Practical education has the right of veto in the context of cooperation if one wishes to opt-out. There is a path of graduality. All the research that has been done so far indicates that there is no reason for cooperation to deviate from the current practice. In addition, the inspection shall ensure that there is sufficient coverage in a region. Perhaps the position of the inspection in this context can be reviewed again. That's what Mr. Rog just hinted at. In what way can we strengthen its position to ensure that practical education in each region is given the position it deserves? The VVD is not in favour of banning regions from making their own choices, because sometimes this is simply necessary, for example in order to maintain practical education in that region. We are preparing an amendment on that point. We will put that to the vote if Mrs Ypma's amendment receives sufficient support in the Chamber and is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman. What problem do we solve with opting-out, Mrs Schouten wondered? That question from the Christian Union is exactly my question. The Secretary of State is trying to reassure us, and he is doing a very good job of saying that only schools opt out if all schools speak out for it. 40% wants to get rid of it, 60% doesn't, he says. My question remains as to why we are putting up such a complicated option for opting out as the majority of pro-schools do not want it. The answer may be that the professional leaders of the partnerships will work with the law to gradually abolish the national criteria. This involves the risk that administrative pressure, administrative muscle, which has been shown very often in the field of education, will put drivers on their own criteria at the expense of the pro-schools. I would just like to outline the worst scenario that is conceivable, but unfortunately it often becomes a reality in education. We have a bad history in that regard. In the meantime, there are a number of amendments that can provide a way out. At the moment, from here, I find it very difficult to oversee, but fortunately we only vote on Tuesday and we still have the weekend to assess it on their merits and probe it in the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr. Chairman. In the end, today is the question of how to give all those young people who have talents but not always fit in with mainstream education a good chance. I believe that the differences have become clear today, as have the views of different parties on how this can be done. I hope that our vision of this has become clear. That vision is stuck on two points. The need to clarify nationally what exactly we mean by the indication of practical education is not there because we think that we can regulate everything from The Hague and not because we think that schools cannot decide for themselves what can be done, but precisely because there can be very perverse incentives, as Mr Beertema said, which can increase the pressure on practical education. We are afraid that this will be at the expense of the student. That is why we have co-signed the amendment. The answer to the question of what problem we are dealing with here is that I have already asked this question in an interruptive situation which has still not become clear to me. If the Secretary of State wishes to make another attempt, he can do so with all his heart. In any case, it has not become clear to me in the debate. One point on which I have heard the Secretary of State very well is the question of funding and its impact on practical education. The Secretary of State says that the funding should not lead to larger classes. We've taken note of that. We'll keep the finger on the wrist. Finally, the settlement. We're fine with waiting for the investigation. We shall then enter into the debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u117	The Secretary of State can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look at you. I have two motions and four amendments. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yeah, that's right. Mrs Ypma, your amendment has apparently not been received by everyone. Is it coming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u120	I have three amendments tabled by Mrs Siderius; on the subject of Nos. 7, 8 and 9, and one of Mrs. Ypma's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u121	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr. Chairman. I will respond in a moment to the motions and amendments. However, I will first try to clarify the advantage of opting out, the possibility of working together in regional cooperation to achieve more tailor-made work than is currently the case. Mrs Schouten and Mr Bertema have asked for this. Let me give you two examples. If, in the event of shrinkage, there is not good performance and various small facilities such as vso and practical education, emptying and shrinking, this form of education is sometimes no longer profitable. Then one of them disappears. If you do not make good agreements on this in a partnership, it sometimes happens randomly. We also know that schools are trying to pull students back and forth. That is undesirable, and we should be giving room for cooperation, of course with the approval of practical schools, to see if they can respond to this in cases of severe contraction. This applies, for example, to the Zeeland islands where there is sometimes only one provision for both. That's one of the reasons why I don't want to take away that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u123	A short response or question, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u124	A short question: why hasn't the possibility of allowing opting-out only been considered in cases of demonstrable shrinkage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u125	Because in regions where there is no shrinkage, there are practical schools that can and dare to provide care outside the current derogation in the law for children who are at the intersection of practical education and training or practical education and lwoo. You can see that part of those children actually have the same need and can also be well maintained in a practice school. It is said that the chances of such a child graduating are very small, but the chances that he will find a job after a number of years of good guidance are high. That space is not always there now, but it will exist when we give the possibility of opting-out. These are two concrete examples of situations in which this will provide space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u126	I would like to give you an opportunity for a brief question, but I would point out that this is a second deadline. I call on the Secretary of State to give concrete answers to the questions raised and to give advice to the amendments and motions for resolutions. I do not ask him to dwell too much on examples, because with them he raises all kinds of questions, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u127	The Secretary of State gives a number of examples. Does he recognise that these things are or fall with the way in which the partnership is already dealing with them? In one sentence, he says that it does not always work within the partnership and that he is looking for a solution in the partnership. That's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u128	In my view, that is not surprising, because at the moment the schools of practical education do not have that possibility in the partnerships. This has to do with the fact that they are still separate systems, but also with the fact that there are national criteria in practical education. We are now maintaining these national criteria, except for the schools and the practical schools that would like to adapt a sleeve to them. It's not an obligation, but there's more room. I understand that letting go is difficult sometimes. However, the Chamber often asks for confidence in education, so let us now offer that space. The school boards are here themselves. With the adaptation that Mr Van Meenen claims to have in store, we may be strengthening the position of the practical schools in this regard. I think that way we can cope well with the administrative pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u129	Will the Secretary of State honestly acknowledge that this is the first step towards abolishing these criteria and that this area of cooperation and tailor-made work has long been in place in the current regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u130	Now there is the possibility in the law to deviate per individual pupil. So this isn't entirely digital, there are some grey areas in it. There is no possibility in the law to pursue this policy and to make good agreements on it. This bill does offer those possibilities. Is this a way to get to lake? That was my approach at first, and that is still my approach; I will say something about it later in response to Mrs Siderius. But when the Chamber decides to maintain the national criteria, so don't let go, and let it go in opting-out, I still think it is a very sustainable variant. It is based on customization and on the choices made within the region. If the House were to agree to this bill, it would not be automatic if the abolition of the national criteria were to be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u131	I propose that the Secretary of State should now deal with the amendments and motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u132	I'd skip a couple of questions. I shall now deal briefly with them. Mrs. Ypma asked if the pro is an independent school type. It is indeed, but it is also a support facility. Now you already see regional differences in practical education, and that is a difference with, for example, havo, vwo and vmbo. This is because there is no established level of practical education that is tested with a final examination. As a result, different local variants occur. Mrs Straus asked about the way the inspection will look at the position of the pro. The inspection is not currently looking at whether there is practical education, but at whether there is an appropriate offer. Honestly, I think you always need practical education to provide every child with an appropriate offer. Now the motions. In the first, in part No. 10, Mrs Siderius asks me not to submit a proposal to abolish the national criteria in the long term. I'd like to discourage this motion. We can look at this at a later date. We can then take the practical experience gained with the legislative proposal. The motion in part No. 11 I do not recommend it because it is completely unnecessary in my view. The latest proposals suggest that such discussions on vulnerable young people should be organised within the labour market regions and RMCs. Then I come to the amendments. In the amendment to item No. 7 is based on the failure to integrate practical education into appropriate education. That is in fact completely contrary to the proposal. That's how you take out the heart. It's also bad for practice schools. Collaborations can refer pupils to practical schools without the budget for practical education growing, and that seems very undesirable to me. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 8, on the maintenance of the regional referral committees, I do not recommend. We cannot give partnerships the responsibility for the overall appropriate offer and funding while the allocation is made by another organisation. Besides, you always have a chance of being sent from the locker to the wall. I find it striking that the SP always wants to cut down on bureaucracy and on all kinds of things outside the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u133	This bureaucracy has only been increased by the partnerships. Why don't you go to a special school? These schools now sometimes have to negotiate with up to four or five partnerships. I went to a school two or three weeks ago, dealing with 16 partnerships, with just as many care institutions and with many municipalities. That's what this Secretary of State calls "the containment of bureaucracy." He should take a look at the practice. But that's not what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u134	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u135	My question is about the Secretary of State's remark that partnerships can pass on unlimited pupils if we do not integrate practical education into appropriate education, because the budget is growing. Of course, that's not true. With the introduction of appropriate education, which was fortunately voted against by the SP, open-ended funding of practical education has also ceased. So this is a false argument. It would be nice if this Secretary of State would stick to the lesson and send proper information to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u136	I am just looking at the effect this amendment would have. In the current situation, you keep the systems separate. I'm not saying that partnerships will do it, but it's kind of the incentive in the system. It's cheaper then, it's really not gonna cost anything if a child gets an lwoo indication or is sent to practice education. We would like to take that cut out between the two systems, because it has so many negative consequences. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. However, Mrs Siderius likes to keep that cut. I would also advise against Mrs Siderius's amendment to item No. 9, on the obligation of a PCL (permanent student care committee). I don't think it's necessary. The expertise and the allocation have already been sufficiently secured. If we don't have it for the heavy support, I don't see why we should keep it in the air for lwoo and pro. Finally, I come to Mrs Ypma's amendment to item No. 12. I also advise against this amendment. The idea of appropriate education is that pupils are not placed in booths and that it is carefully considered which place is appropriate for a student. This appropriate place can also vary a bit from one region to another. Practice education is a strong brand, which is highly appreciated by all parties. In some regions, they also want to use this power of practical education for a broader target group. This can only be done if practical education is in agreement. All co-operative boards must also agree to opt-out. The current tailor-made arrangements do not provide sufficient space. Without opting-out, partnerships do not get the opportunity to offer complete customization for all students and thus to offer each child a suitable place. Schools can offer tailor-made solutions, but they do so without proper coordination within the partnership. On the contrary, I think that we should encourage this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u137	You may ask one question about the amendment tabled, Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u138	The Secretary of State states that practical education must be agreed, but he does not take seriously the signal that it does not want its proposal at all. Practice education doesn't want an opt-out at all. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is a little strange that he wants the agreement on practical education on the one hand, he emphasizes that here too he is not listening to the objections that arise from it on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u139	"Practical education" may not exist. Also in practical education there are schools and parties that think differently about this kind of thing. I think Mrs Ypma has a point when she says that not all schools of practical education are for this. However, I think I have a point to make when I say that there are a number of schools that would like to have a little more space and confidence from The Hague. They want to take that responsibility and use it in a good way. That's the 60% or 40% discussion. The umbrella organisation for practical education has said that 40% of schools have indicated that this could be done in the long term. 60% don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u140	It's only one school that indicated that in the investigation. I object to the Secretary of State twisting the numbers here. The extensive version of this study shows that one school has indicated its support for abolishing the national criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u141	This is all second-hand. I have just quoted from the end of the year speech by the President of the dome of practical schools. It's not my words; it's things he's said and he's more in it than I am. If Mrs. Ypma says I'm lying now, we're having a very different discussion. However, I quoted from that speech. I would also like to give the Chamber two concrete examples of schools which we know because, of course, we have a great deal of contact with the partnerships. It is a school in a shrinkage situation and a school that is doing very well and says: we can also bring some other students with us. Those schools themselves have indicated that they would like some more space. Then I'm not the one who wants to ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u142	I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the officials for their presence. I thank the people who have followed this debate from the gallery or otherwise for their attention. Next Tuesday there will be a vote on the legislative proposal and the motions and amendments that have been tabled.
