ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The PVV is against depolization of this fertile farmland and has always assisted owner De Kloet and also the Zeeuwen in the file of the Duchess Hedwigepolder. These are fertile farmland and one of the most beautiful nature and foraging areas for birds in our country. Surveys and surveys show that the Zeeland population is deeply affected, while the population in particular has fought for centuries to win land on water. She literally had to fight the floods on death and life. The PVV continues to fight with the Zeeuws against depoldering until the last sound side by side. Once again, I am very pleased that this debate has been made possible by the CDA and the men's brothers of the SGP, and I thank them for that, because otherwise it might not have happened. A new argument to be introduced is the accelerated sludge sludge from the Scheldt. It will be a sort of sewer well from the port of Rotterdam and the Schelde. We just shouldn't tolerate that. We shouldn't accept that. This has a major impact not only on nature, on the Zeeuws and on their health and on those of the animals living there, but also on the costs of structural dredging are neither to be overlooked nor covered. Where does the Secretary of State get the cover for that? This must be done in a structural manner. The Secretary of State states that monitoring and adjustment have already been included in the initial budget of 155 million euros. How can this be the case if it is only later that it becomes apparent that the sludge, and thus the pollution, is going much faster than planned? This will be another noose for Dutch taxpayers. The Flemings are laughing their asses off. They're laughing their asses off. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's After all, we are making sacrifices to compensate for the depth of the Scheldt, which will also increase the accessibility of the port of Antwerp over the back of our national pride: the Hedwige, the Zeeuwen, the port of Rotterdam, the e.g. Holland. It's true. They can even expand the port of Antwerp at the expense of our Dutch territory. This means a win-win situation for Belgium and misery and loss for the Netherlands. We do not allow the Hedwige to become the well of Antwerp and that this is made possible by our government. It can't be. I find it strange that I do not hear GroenLinks, the Party for Animals and the SP. 6,000 poplars are cut over without a replanting obligation. You won't hear from any of them about that. I find that unlikely. The Flemings pay for it and they get it. They just get what they ask. There haven't even been harsh words about it; I'm 100% sure of that. Why is the cabinet taking this? Why is the Hedwige being taken under the government's watchful eye? There are no legal problems, because there is no swallowing. Nature compensation will not achieve the desired goal. That can't possibly happen. There's never gonna be water again. Our beautiful territory, our beautiful nature sludges full of dredging and dirt from Antwerp and from the Scheldt. The Flemings no longer have any dredging problems. These problems are also being solved, because they can get rid of all their crap now; so it is once again. Please be honest, that's how I ask the Secretary of State. The cabinet serves the interests of Antwerp, but it must serve the interests of the Zeeland people, of our Hedwigepolder, of our nature, of the port of Rotterdam and of the e.g. Holland. I ask the Cabinet to stop completely any depollination, including fertile agricultural land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	I hear the people in the public gallery clap now, but they must not in any way express their feelings of happiness, aversion or whatever. I call Mr Van Bommel of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Before there was mention of the Hedwigepolder, there was the Drowned Land of Saeftinghe. This cabinet, including the VVD, has decided to take up the depoldering of the Hedwige as soon as possible. We think putting the Hedwigepolder under water is a bad idea. Good agricultural land is depoldered to compensate for damage caused to the nature of the Westerschelde at the depths. That depth is also bad for safety, as all the sea water flows into such a deep channel. The SP believes that no damage should have been done to the water nature of the Westerschelde. If you don't do damage to nature, you don't have to compensate or repair it. This is all the result of a bad treaty concluded by the Balkenende cabinet with Belgium. This treaty was very beneficial to the Antwerp port barons, but unfavourable to the Netherlands. The Netherlands needs to deepen and the Netherlands also needs to compensate nature by flooding a polder in its own country. And why? This is only to ensure that the largest ships can reach the port of Antwerp, 70 km inland. A much better idea is to have the North-West European ports working together, aiming at a division of labour between ports. Larger ships can then go to Rotterdam, smaller ones to Antwerp. The North-West European ports are heading for overcapacity in any case. How is this problem being dealt with? Does the Secretary of State understand that the flooding of the land is still sensitive in Zeeland? Does it recognise that deepening entails additional security risks? What is the reaction of the Secretary of State to the investigation of the two engineering firms, which states that the desired nature will not arise in the Hedwigepolder, because the polder will not be about 1 cm but 5 to 10 cm per year? In the meantime, a SP motion has been adopted, in which it is asked not to go further. How far has it actually gone? Is there anything deeper than what was agreed in the treaty? It is striking that the VVD and the CDA are the main culprits, who flood the Hedwigepolder. After all, these parties claim to stand up for the farmers. Where are they now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	There Mr Geurts is already standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	I wonder whether Mr Van Bommel of the SP Group is not making a mistake. He called it CDA and the VVD in different order. I think it's a PvdA/VVD cabinet that flooded the Hedwigepolder. The CDA isn't part of that. I therefore assume that Mr Van Bommel will take back these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	In my view, I have made a very clear reference to the agreement that was concluded earlier, in which the CDA did indeed play a role. Looking at history only through the glasses of the opposition, the role that the CDA now plays, is all too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	I find this answer easy. Mr Van Bommel also knows that under the Rutte I cabinet efforts have been made to shape a different model for the Hedwigepolder. There was no question that the entire Hedwigepolder would be flooded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	We all know history. The CDA did indeed play a role in this. That is the role I wish to emphasise here. In this area, as in some other areas, the CDA constantly says that it is the party that stands up for the farmers. Here's the deal. Not right now. The Scheldt Treaty was an historic mistake. As far as we are concerned, the Netherlands and Belgium are going to renegotiate to arrive at a structural solution supported by the Netherlands, Belgium and Zeeland. No polders under water, no floor; as far as we are concerned, extradike solutions for nature restoration and nature development are the focus of such a conversation. Not all alternatives have been seriously investigated and submitted. The SP wants to bet on extra-dijk nature development as it occurs with stretch dams. Why is the experimental option of sand supplementing and the experimental option of filling all or part of the trench at the main plate for 500 hectares of high-quality nature not being investigated? The SP remains against depolizing the Hedwigepolder and wants to focus on alternatives. Don't let the Drowned Land of Saeftinghe drown again! That's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	No, people in the public gallery, you really should not, in any way, show your approval or disapproval of debates. No, you can't dance, Mr. Graus. I call Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. The history of the Hedwigepolder has a moving course and then I express myself carefully. In more than six years, around twelve parliamentary debates were held on the Hedwigepolder. These were debates with varying degrees of progress and varying conclusions. One time the polder would be completely underwater and the other time it would stay dry. Nationally, the Hedwigepolder became a symbol of resistance to passed nature policy, in which the achievement of ecological objectives is increasingly at the expense of the natural experience of people living and working in these areas. The Dutch love our polders and our cultural landscape. The preservation of the Hedwigepolder and the prevention of forced depolification has always been the starting point for the CDA. In my maiden speech, I said that leaving the barn or putting it under water is absurd. The world population is growing and the Dutch farmer has the knowledge and skills to contribute to sufficient food production in the world. The CDA thinks we should be proud of that. The flooding of precious agricultural land for mud nature remains undigestable for the CDA. Nature and man must go through a door together. This is good for the support of nature and for the environment of man.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	I am glad to hear the old CDA sound again from Mr Geurts. I say that without any cynicism. I looked back at the moment when Mr Atsma took over from Mr Koppejan. Then we heard the same lyrics: no forced depolification. At the same time, the CDA agrees with a treaty which included this. We can look at this for a long time, we know history. Is the CDA line that Mr Geurts is putting here, and I appreciate this very much, guaranteed the future line of the CDA? Even if the CDA could possibly be on a post where this problem can really be avoided?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	It is in the genes of CDAs to pursue the text that I just said, that we are against forced depolification. This has always been the starting point for CDAs. We have taken government responsibility in this country for a number of years. You'll be dealing with a coalition. Our commitment has always been what I have indicated. The SGP is now in a tolerating role. This was also the case in Rutte I and then a plan came along. Perhaps Mr Dijkgraaf will be able to stop the depolization within this dowry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	Finally, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	Very skilful as Mr Geurts does. That's how I know him. He's turning the balls. Now I'm talking about the role of the CDA. Soon I will be standing there and then I will see the interruption of the role of the SGP. It was a crucial moment for the Scheldt Treaty to pass here. There was an amendment tabled by Mr van der Staaij which proposed that the voluntary nature be recorded. This amendment did not make it, partly because the CDA voted against for its magical reasons. If we had a new cabinet formation, would this line be maintained in the administrative role? Is the CDA going to ensure that the depolification does not actually go through, or is it being said that administrative responsibility is being taken? In that case it is delivering in opposition time and not delivering in coalition time. I do not know Mr Geurts very well, because I know him as a consistent man.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u15	My question then is: will there also be provision in the tolerance status? If I may experience that I am involved in drawing up a government agreement in a forthcoming cabinet, I would like to pledge to the Chamber that this is in our genes and I have always said so, even in my maiden speech that I will make every effort to organize that we will no longer convert fertile agricultural land into nature. As a bonus for Mr Dijkgraaf, take a look at the contributions made by our group chairman, Mr Sybrand Buma, a few months ago. In that he has literally said the same thing as what I am allowed to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u16	It's been best for a second when it comes to fertile farmland. Even if it were dry land, those Belgians wouldn't have anything to say about our country. It's our land and we decide whether it goes underwater or not. That institution should have Mr Geurts. It's not just about fertile farmland. We just don't have to flood any more land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u17	I think that at least we agree that we should not flood fertile land. I cannot judge every inch in the Netherlands at the moment, but I think that the line we have both expressed, you in your contribution and I in mine, is already a line with which we can come to an agreement. In the Hedwige, where tenants now have to leave and the owner has to give up his property, this is not the case. There are strong indications that depolification will not lead to nature restoration and that man has nothing to do with reeds and mud. That is not where we should go with the Netherlands. Would the Secretary of State care to reflect on this? The government agreement of this PvdA/VVD cabinet says: "All alternatives to nature compensation around the floor of the Westerschelde have been carefully weighed on costs and effects. On this basis, we decide to take the complete depolification of the Hedwige as soon as possible." Why, so I ask the Secretary of State, was not the compromise proposed under Rutte I chosen? This compromise proposal also hurt the CDA, as I say to the fellow Members, but the Hedwige was retained for the most part. This was a gain compared to the plans that the current government of PvdA and VVD is carrying out. They just flood the entire polder. I press everyone to heart: let us prevent this from happening in the future. Nature and man must not stand against each other, as is the case in Zeeland. I conclude with the words: in the Netherlands, we should not continue to convert fertile agricultural land into nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. Let me first say that the current system of thirty-member debates is not working. I think this was the first debate in my portfolio that was requested. That must have been somewhere in the third quarter of 2013. The VVD did not support the request for this debate at the time, but I find it hard for the applicant that we are only having the debate now, and I find it illogical that this debate should take place while the decisions have been taken. It is wrong to give the impression that the decision has not yet been taken. Then through you a number of questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u19	I will intervene, because what Mr Heerema says is not correct. We have the power and the power here. As MPs, we hold the highest office in the Netherlands. I would like to ask in a moment, if necessary in a motion, not to take irreversible steps as long as the objection procedure is under way by the owner of the Duchess Hedwigepolder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u20	The Council of State dismissed the actions as unfounded. We have the impression that the steps can no longer be undone. If the Secretary of State says otherwise and if there is room, I think we should think about it. But as far as I can tell, those steps are no longer possible. I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u21	That is the case, because the owner can and will still go to the European Court. We will see what the Secretary of State will say about this, but perhaps you will be able to support my motion in a moment. If we achieve a majority, the Secretary of State may have to do so. Well, at least we'll have bought ourselves some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u22	I was working on a number of questions to the Secretary of State. Will it confirm that the funds currently available are also the maximum that will be spent, including the excavation of toxic sludge, as already promised by the Secretary of State in the AO Natura 2000 including Westerschelde of 19 September 2013? Can the Secretary of State indicate what the cost per excavation of toxic sludge is? I also have a question for the Secretary of State about the rented land in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. A total of 200 hectares of land in East-Zeeuws-Flanders all land of the Department of the Rural Area on the east side of the Channel of Ghent and Terneuzen would be reserved for the Belgian tenants of the Hedwigepolder. These Belgian tenants could then rent Dutch agricultural land more than 20 kilometres across the border. These lands were always rented by farmers from East-Zeeuws-Flanders. It is unclear to us who has promised this. Can the Secretary of State clarify this situation for us? This isn't our favorite file. Depolising agricultural land is terrible if we have to do so because of international agreements. This is the last time that this will happen, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u23	That's a lovely line. Mr Heerema is appalled that this is happening. He says this is due to international treaties. Mr van der Staaij's amendment, which has just been referred to, has not been tabled for nothing. That said, in line with the line already indicated by Mr Geurts, it would only be voluntary and not compulsory. This was also possible under international conventions. The VVD- supported that amendment. Thanks again...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u24	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u25	Then why this turn? Now the VVD says it's up to you. At the time the VVD said: it should not be done at all, only if it is voluntary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u26	The space we see after studying the whole dossier is less than we had hoped. We have always been against this absurd treaty. If we had to vote on that treaty today, we would have voted against it. Not all parties in this Chamber did that at the time. If only they had done so then, because we would have had a different situation. At some point, however, you have to make a decision. The line agreed in the coalition agreement is the line that the VVD now follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u27	Politically, that's what I can tell you. There's a coalition agreement and that's the point. However, a different consideration can be made in terms of content. In substance, there is still a possibility to do other things. Mr Van Bommel also noted this. I refer to the extra-dijk measures, on which I will say a few words in my speech. These are matters that are also possible within the framework of the agreements made. The VVD chooses the political line here. That is understandable in itself, but it now takes a different view on the substance than it has in the past. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u28	I'd like to respond to that. It is true: I think our political interpretation is very clear. It may also be clear that it feels different inside. Mr Dijkgraaf, as a member of this Chamber, feels this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Dijkgraaf is right to draw attention to this. I would like to ask Mr Heerma an enlightening question. The coalition agreement states that costs and effects have been carefully weighed. Is Mr Heerema also of that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u30	A lot has been weighed and a lot has been looked at. If everything is considered and taken into account in the overall picture, so for example also the excavation of sludge................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The answer to Mr Geurts' question is therefore yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u31	25 hectares of protected nature reserve is flooded. Mr Graus also referred to it. I didn't count the trees, but I've been able to live in this beautiful area several times. 6,000 trees are cut down to create mud nature in that area. Surely the VVD cannot make such a turn in relation to the position it took at the time of Rutte I? I call upon the VVD Group to make a compelling appeal. When I see what the PvdA Group in this cabinet can do, I wonder: can't the VVD Group make sure that they get something done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u32	I do not really think that Mr Geurts's big words are appropriate, especially since it was his party that supported the Treaty in the front. I could have had that question from everyone in the Chamber, but not from the CDA, because if that party had taken responsibility for adopting the treaty, we would have had a very different situation here. However, that is not the answer to the question. What was said about those 6,000 trees is true. That's too bad. I didn't count them all either. With everything I have in me, I would have liked to have seen it differently. The treaty is there. We would have voted against that now, but we cannot do that now. This is due to other parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u33	Proceed, Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u34	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u35	Madam President. The Hedwigepolder is a beautiful area. Farmers harvest an honest sandwich there every year. In addition, it is a beautiful nature reserve. No less than 18 bird species on the Red List are flying around. You wouldn't flood an area like that, would you? We have just debated it: it has been a historic mistake for a majority of the House to have allowed itself to go into the Scheldt Treaty. There's no need for depolification. When you flood the Hedwigepolder, you create a so-called low dynamic intertidal region. That would only make sense if that area were to deteriorate as well. Mr Graus and, in my view, Mr Van Bommel have already mentioned this. I'm questioning the figures here. I dispute the supposed deterioration of the area of low dynamic intertidal area. The ecotope maps sent to the Chamber from 1996 show that there is no negative trend at all. The trend is rather positive. The numbers show it. The green line, the low dynamic intertidal area, is just rising. That's what the numbers show. We're not making it up. Last year ARCADIS looked closely at the figures and concluded that there is an increase in low dynamic inter-tidal area. This harsh analysis shows that there is not a negative trend but a positive trend, and that the system has apparently found a new balance. How can the Secretary of State continue to claim that there has been a deterioration? Let me get this straight. Depolification is also not a structural solution. It has already been said: it is closing, because it is in a bend of the Scheldt. In the long run, we don't get a low-dynamic inter-tidal range at all. We've got to go back to digging. Is the government going to do that again? Is Natura 2000 allowed to do that? I don't think that's allowed. Then who's gonna pay the bill? The big problem is that the government chose the Westerschelde as an ideal image 60 years ago. If you do that, you may wonder how many further depolifications are needed to meet that ideal image. The SGP wants to rid itself of this sloping surface. I therefore call on the government to abandon depolisations and to focus on extra-dijk measures. Mr Van Bommel has already said good things about this. This is a better alternative. It's much less invasive. The farmers can simply continue to farm and it is better for nature. The SGP wants the government to stop depolizing precious agricultural land and the beautiful natural polder the Hedwige.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr. Chairman. This file's been dragging for, like, nine years. Mr Geurts just referred to it. In 2006 the treaty was concluded with Flanders. I would just like to say to Mr Geurts that Mrs Peijs, then Commissioner of the Queen in Zeeland, signed the Treaty on behalf of the province, and that the deepening of the Westerschelde was necessary, with the corresponding nature compensation. The last Cabinets, through Minister Verburg and Secretary of State Bleker, tried hard to propose alternatives, but these were not sufficient at the time, given the need for natural compensation. In 2012, the European Commission also concluded that the alternative was not fulfilled. She also pointed out to the Netherlands that it is in default. The compensation should have been achieved by 2006. In January, an integration plan was adopted by our Secretary of State. In April 2016, the possible expropriation procedure may be completed and then the redevelopment will start. In 2019, the Hedwigepolder can be underwater and the valuable tidal nature in the Westerschelde can develop. The site is designated as a Natura 2000 site, which protects it from activities affecting nature values. After years of staggering policy and great uncertainty, I repeat: great uncertainty for the residents and nature, the cabinet has finally made the decision to remove the Hedwigepolder. The area will be set up as nature and naturally also includes the necessary nature protection. We do have one more question. How does the Secretary of State deal with the still unrealized 300 hectares of natural compensation to be found elsewhere in Zeeland? I would like to make one final point about the involvement of citizens, because we take them very seriously. There's a lot of complaints about that involvement. If things happen in the future in the Westerschelde or elsewhere for which compensation is needed, we want the population to be seriously involved at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mrs Ouwehand is on the list of speakers on behalf of the Party for Animals. Unfortunately, she cannot be here at the moment, because she must also take part in another debate. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I note that the Secretary of State can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr. Chairman. This is a dossier that has been discussed in the Chamber for a long time. Different parties, with different responsibilities, have also sometimes taken different positions. That proved to be the case during the debate. It is important to understand, and I certainly do so, that this is a sensitive decision for the Zeeuws who, also in view of their history, have had a certain relationship with the water for years. Against this background, it is important that this dossier has now been clarified. On 12 November 2014, the Council of State dismissed all actions as unfounded. In this way, the National Integration Plan is final and there is clarity about the future of the polder. I have the Chamber on this in my letter on 18 November last. also informed. In addition, the Royal Decree of expropriation was published on 12 December 2014. With that decision, the grounds in the Hedwigepolder have been designated for expropriation and the judicial phase of expropriation can be initiated. The process and decision-making in the project are proceeding according to the schedule that we sent to the Chamber in December 2012. It's a realistic planning. This means that the polder will be nature reserve in 2019. The other projects of the Westerschelde Nature Programme are already ready. I am confident that we will achieve this and that we will achieve the nature goals. In the meantime, of course, we are also dealing with people who exist in the polder, for example with tenants. I am committed to finding a suitable solution for them, and some of them have already succeeded in doing so. After all, they must not suffer from the changes in the Hedwigepolder. The region is given a nature reserve, with opportunities for recreational co-use, and thus there is also room for investment in some regional projects. The municipality of Hulst can make proposals to this effect. Mr Leenders said that it was important to involve the people of the region. It was striking to see that, although the Hedwigepolder has been spoken about for years, I was the first ruler who actually entered into talks with the city council in Hulst's town hall. Especially when it comes to the restoration of nature, sometimes difficult discussions arise. I think it is indeed important to show both from the cabinet and from the political point of view. That doesn't always mean you're gonna agree with people. But you also have to have the guts to go to people and explain to them why you make a different decision, for example. I did. I talked to the people in Zeeland. I explained to them what we agreed in the coalition agreement. There are alternatives weighed. They were also sometimes much more expensive. In the end, the negotiating parties within this cabinet have taken a decision. They have reached a coalition agreement and there is a proposal in it. I'm kept to implement that proposal, and I am. The cooperation with the parties in the region is good. I would like to mention the province of Zeeland in particular. It does a good job in the implementation and preparation of the decision-making process. Cooperation with Flanders and contacts with the European Commission are also good. Moreover, the latter was badly needed, because I have to say that when I took office, I also noticed that on this dossier the contacts with the European Commission were not very good. So I think it is important that we provide that clarity. I also attach great importance to care. I would now like to answer some of the questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u39	Let me be clear: my comment covered a period of nine years and not specifically the period of the Secretary of State. My comment was more forward-looking as a signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u40	Sure, I didn't take it personally either. I just wanted to underline your words. I agree with that and I wanted to show by example how it can be done. Mr Graus asked for the cost of dredging to be covered. There is no need for dredging, because there is a so-called natural system of erosion and sedimentation. Mr Heerema asked about the cost of digging out toxic sludge. The cost of digging sludge has been included in the project budget. This concerns the cost of digging the channel system. I cannot now provide the Chamber with information per excavation, because it is very detailed. But it is always possible to do so in writing if Mr Heerema would very much like to do so. Mr van Bommel asked about the sludge of the Hedwigepolder. It is necessary for achieving the nature goals. I can see Mr Dijkgraaf walking to the interrupting microphone. He says: I disagree with everything. But all those things he disagrees with have, of course, all had their place in the appeal procedure. The Council of State has also weighed all this and finally considered that the National Integration Plan can continue as it has been proposed. In two or three years' time, you will probably still disagree, and that is what I would like to say to Mr Dijkgraaf. However, I submitted the plan, including all possible criticisms, to an independent third party, not just a third: the Council of State. It has judged and given the green light. That's what I'm holding on to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u41	I get that line, and that's just right. But it is a legal assessment, namely whether it has been done properly in this way. This is a different matter from the substantive assessment of whether there is indeed, through the curve in the Scheldt, an upslide that is very fast, and there must be excavations at some point. All the technical reports say...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u42	I hear applause again from the public gallery. This was really the last time that there was applause from the public gallery. I really can't. It would be very unfortunate if you were to be removed from the Chamber, I say to those involved in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u43	I agree, Mr President. That's how we do it in this house. Whether there is agreement or no agreement, we are simply having the substantive debate here. My point is that there is no substantive report stating that there is a natural balance at a low level of mud. The sludge goes on and at some point it has to be excavated. Then you not only have a financial problem; several members asked for it, also from the VVD. Then you get the question again: who's gonna pay for that? You also have a substantive problem with Natura 2000, because that is probably not allowed at all. Then we don't have a low dynamic intertidal area, but a reed apron area; we already have plenty of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr Dijkgraaf and I have, of course, already had the debate on this subject in various general discussions, also in connection with the discussion he himself raised on the so-called ecotope maps. We can see that there is a difference of opinion about the forecasts between Mr Dijkgraaf and myself, and with that with my department. Depending on the period of assessment, the trend for the conservation status in the Westerschelde is negative. That means we're taking some steps. We have recently put all the experts together to conduct the debate further. I see that Mr Dijkgraaf is keen to have this debate now as if we were ecologists, but I do not want to do that. I note that the Council of State's plan has been given the green light and I stand by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u45	Before I give you the floor, Mr Dijkgraaf: I really do not want to repeat debates here. It's a three-minute debate and it's getting all out of hand. I appeal to you and to others through you to ask questions that have not been raised before. Is that gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u46	Yeah, but, Mr. Chairman, now a little bit breaks my clog. I have asked questions about this in my contribution. I am used to a chairman who ensures that the cabinet gives answers to the questions. I believe that the Secretary of State is trying to do so, so I do think that we should be able to discuss the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u47	You must put your question very sharply and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u48	May I make a procedural remark? You are at the bottom of the pile because of the order of speakers, also with this point. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u49	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u50	My reaction was not directed towards the Secretary of State, because I am used to the Secretary of State always giving an answer. I responded to your interruption that we should not raise any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u51	It is not yet your turn, Mr Dijkgraaf. The Secretary of State has just begun, so I'm going to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u52	I'm allowed in second opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u53	No, the Secretary of State will continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr Van Bommel asked about the capacity of the northern European ports. I would like to refer him to the international agreements made with Belgium. I have referred several times to the Treaty. Indeed, nature development is needed to comply with the Habitats Directive. You asked whether we could not renegotiate with Belgium, but anyone who has followed the dossier in several years' time and knows that the European Commission was at some point in the process of intervention knows that all the alternatives have been sufficiently examined. They're not ahead of us now. The Council of State has clarified and I am not going to renegotiate with the Belgians. Mr Geurts noted that the Hedwigepolder would be of no benefit to the region, at least that is his view. It is also intended for the future that people in the region will be given a nature reserve with opportunities for, for example, recreational co-use. The municipality of Hulst can invest 2.5 million in regional projects and thus we hope that the region's attractiveness for recreation and tourism can also be increased. I hope this also offers opportunities for entrepreneurs. Mr Geurts asked why we did not choose the idea put forward earlier by his group, I believe in a previous cabinet period. For this I have to refer again to the beginning of my story. The current cabinet has made a different choice and weighed all alternatives. This is also included in the coalition agreement. I shall give the best possible implementation of what has been proposed in the coalition agreement. Mr Heerema asked if the steps are irreversible. Yes, the National Integration Plan is irrevocable by the ruling of the Council of State. Mr Graus said that Mr De Cloedt might still be going to the European Court. In any case, that would not have suspensive effect. That's important for this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u55	I think it's up to the Chamber. I'm just going to file a motion in which I'll ask the Chamber. It will then be able to express its opinion on this matter. If I get support for that, it may be a factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u56	I am not going to go into the question of which motions Mr Graus is going to table. I'll give you an opinion on it. I'm also saying that the National Integration Plan is irrevocable. That must be something for the Chamber to weigh up. Then what does the Chamber want with that? I am also, of course, counting on the consistency of everyone in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u57	Good. You have probably almost met Mr Dijkgraaf's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u58	I have even answered Mr Dijkgraaf's questions, Mr President. He talked about the study of ARCADIS. He asks whether it is not the case that the conservation status in the Westerschelde will develop more favorably than unfavorably. I have just begun to give him an answer to that question. I said that I also told him earlier that this depends on the period of assessment, but that the trend is negative. It is also unclear whether the positive trend indicated is structural. There's also a bandwidth. The presence of a margin of uncertainty also plays a role in this type of case. Apart from the above, however, it is necessary to improve the natural state of the Westerschelde system repair. That means more space for the estuarine dynamics. The depoldering of the Hedwigepolder, but also, for example, the Perkpolder and Water Dunes projects contribute to this. Monitoring will show how habitat types develop and, for example, whether additional management measures are needed. Mr Dijkgraaf has also asked about the excavation of the area. Is that okay? It's true that existing marshes are being excavated. That was also the subject of the appeal procedure before the Council of State. This has not led to an amendment of the decision. That will not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u59	Let me just take ARCADIS' own conclusion. It says, in chapter 6, the following. The interrelated trends and developments in the successive ecotope maps are: 2. increase in low dynamic parts in the channels. I understand the political consideration the Secretary of State makes. I have every sympathy for that. It is as it is; matters are agreed in governmental agreements. However, I am also trying to understand the content. What are the facts behind it? The Secretary of State can say a lot, but she now claims that there could be a negative trend, depending on how you look at it over time. Maybe there's a basis for that, but I haven't seen it so far. If there is, I would like to receive that support, in order to understand this part of the Secretary of State's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u60	I do not entirely agree with Mr Dijkgraaf. He has received quite a few written answers on this matter before. They were about the exact same point. It even explained how the experts have been debating this matter and how we weigh ARCADIS' report. There were also very precise maps, with the whole pro rata plan as it were. That is what Mr Dijkgraaf has had. All this has played a role in the procedure at the Council of State. I understand that the Chamber would like to discuss every point in detail with me, but I would like to note here that I think the Chamber has already received a great deal of information, including all the information I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u61	This is one of the essential things about the Hedwigepolder, because this is meant to compensate for a low dynamic intertidal region. So it's essential how that goes. Anyway, I note that the Secretary of State is sticking to that statement. Let me repeat that we have already done so extensively in the files to see if there is any substantive justification. I have not seen it so far, but we may have overlooked something. This may lead to new questions, but I note that the Secretary of State cannot at present provide us with any new information to support that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's right. Again, the Council of State has also weighed this point. Mr Heerema asked if I could say anything about the tenancy of Belgian people on Dutch territory. The DLG also makes agreements with the Belgian tenants of Dutch land in the Hedwige. I do not know the details of these agreements, but if Mr Heerema so wishes, I can send those details to the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u63	I would very much like that information to be sent in writing. This concerns, in particular, the impact on Dutch farmers in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u64	I think that's excellent. Mr Leenders asked what we are doing with the part of nature that still needs to be realized. That is what has been agreed, and these projects are in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u65	I note that there is a need for a second deadline. There is a one-minute speaking time. That includes tabling motions, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to examine the socio-economic implications for the e.g. the Netherlands and the port of Rotterdam in particular, now its largest competitor, the port of Antwerp, can expand over the back of our Hedwigepolder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to examine the consequences for the health of the Zeeland population, foraging animals and nature as soon as the flooded Hedwigepolder will be sludged with polluted sludge from the Scheldt and the port of Antwerp,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps as long as the objection procedure initiated by the owner of the Duchess Hedwigepolder is ongoing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, to preserve a Zeeland pride, the Duchess Hedwigepolder and to refrain from depolization,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make available to the public the additional costs associated with the reduction and at the expense of which the necessary financial cover will be provided,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30862-102]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30862-103]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30862-104]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30862-105]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30862-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u67	The Member Graus has spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr. Chairman. The ruling of the Council of State and the Royal Decree of last year, of course, created facts. We can't ignore that. However, it is a pity that the Secretary of State, in this debate too, is particularly close to this issue, both legally and less politically. The SP Group is concerned with the recognition that the Scheldt Treaty is a historical mistake, given the Dutch interest and the Zeeuws interest. The political preference should be not to flood polders, but to out-of-date solutions, wherever they are possible. That's not what this is about. My group continues to regret this. On my side, there will be no motion, just emotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch farmer has the knowledge and skills to contribute to sufficient food production in the world;]] [[calls on the government to prevent the conversion of fertile agricultural land into so-called new nature,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30862-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u70	At the moment, I have one very specific question to ask the Secretary of State. Possess the cabinet documents, which show that Flanders will make a claim to the Netherlands if the Hedwige is not depoldered. If so, can they be made available to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u71	Madam President. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers in this new debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ARCADIS report shows that there is no deterioration of estuarine nature in the Westerschelde;]] [[calls on the Government to update its image of present and future estuarine nature in the Westerschelde and to act accordingly, including by focusing on extra-dijk measures rather than depolifications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30862-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u72	This issue has been under discussion for many years. The Secretary of State is right: we have had many consultations. I just have to see if this was the last debate. I think we still have a lot to do, also given the fact that new facts are still on the table. I think it is good to continue discussing the content, despite the fact that political decisions have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u73	I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to review the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 102 by Mr Graus, in which the government is asked to examine the socio-economic consequences, I must advise against, not only because of the way in which the motion was drafted, but also because I do not have the capacity to do so in this way, apart from the fact that I do not expect this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u75	One question about your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u76	Yes, I will ask a maximum of one question per motion. Does the Secretary of State recognize that it will have socio-economic consequences? The experts say that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u77	That is really very difficult to predict, because as I have just indicated in my contribution, new opportunities will arise for entrepreneurs, even if you allow recreation, for example. We have made 2.5 million for the municipality of Hulst available in projects. So that could be another opportunity for entrepreneurs. Once again, I do not intend to do what Mr Graus asks, nor do I have the capacity to do. So I advise against the motion. I also advise against the motion in part No. 103 by Mr Graus. What is called for has already been examined in the environmental impact assessment and has also been part of the appeal procedure. I don't want to do any more than we already have. So dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'm talking about the health of the Zeeland people. At the time those studies were carried out, it was not known how much polluted sludge would subside. So that's why I'm asking you to investigate. It's about people's health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u79	I know, but we deal with that very carefully. Again, in the Environmental Impact Assessment, these kinds of things have simply been given their place. Then I come to the motion on part No. 104 by Mr Graus, in which I am actually asked to depart from the coalition agreement and not to take irreversible steps as long as the objection procedure is under way. The procedures in the Netherlands have already been completed and the decision has been made. In this way, the National Integration Plan is irrevocable. I therefore do not intend to do what this motion asks. I'd really like to dissuade them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u80	Then the Chamber will have to rule on this motion and the Zeeuws will be able to decide immediately on who to vote for in the elections for the Provincial States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u81	That's not up to me. I have to say, moreover, that I do not think that Mr Graus has taken a number of different positions. So it's always confusing. The motion in part No. 105 by Mr Graus, in which the government is called upon to refrain from depolization, I must be dissuaded. I assume that Mr Graus understands that, given the position I am defending here. The motion in part No. 106 by Mr Graus, in which the government is asked to reflect the costs, I must also advise against, as no additional costs are currently foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u82	Surely there are engineering agencies that aren't the first, they're really heavy guys that say they are. That is why I am asking for these costs to be made available on the basis of what those experts say. We can't just ignore that. Those are really engineers who know things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u83	I'm not sure these engineers with the qualification "heavy boys" are very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u84	I meant that positively, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u85	I know. Nevertheless, I have also noted in the debate with Mr Dijkgraaf that those views have also been tested by the Council of State. That means that all these opinions have been heard, but I do not intend to do what Mr Graus asks in this motion. So I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u86	Returning to those tough guys: I notice that the Secretary of State is also a reader of the Donald Duck, but I mean of course that they are people with some capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u87	I get it, but he was too good to let go. Then I come to the motion on part No. 107. It's not easy today, because I also advise against this motion. I believe that careful consideration should always be given and that there should be no ruling without consideration of interests. I understand very well that this is very sensitive and I think it is important to assess this on a case-by-case basis. I'm really gonna have to dissuade this motion. Also the last motion, in part No. 108, I don't recommend it. In the debate with Mr Dijkgraaf, arguments were exchanged over and over again, but I stand by my position. The decision has been taken and I will continue to do so if the Chamber continues to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u88	I would, of course, be surprised if the Secretary of State left this motion to the House's discretion. That wouldn't be entirely consistent. For future debates, about other nature and so on, it is important how the assessment takes place and whether there is a negative, positive or normal trend. I'm gonna ask you this separately from the Hedwige. We took a look at the pieces. We did see a report that went to the European Commission last year on Article 17 of the Habitats Directive. There's that statement in there, too. However, we do not have any justification for this. Could the Secretary of State see if there's any evidence to support that? Maybe we missed it. Then a simple rule is enough: look in that piece. Could we be given the basis otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u89	I'm gonna have to take a look at that. I can't shake that right now. I will reply in writing to the question as to whether it is possible to comply with Mr Dijkgraaf's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u91	That last sentence would have been very nice, had it not been for me to ask another question to the Secretary of State. I saw her look relieved that the President announced the end of this debate, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u92	I do not know if you have interpreted my mimicry quite correctly, because I am happy to answer your question. You know that there is a lot of discussion between Member States and that there are letters going on and on. They are for the Member States and they are not public. You also know that otherwise, if I were you, I would ask a number of well-known people; I am suggesting a former Prime Minister or a number of former rulers who have indeed threatened Flanders with arbitration. That's no secret. If Mr Geurts wants to add a little more colour to that, he might be able to ask some of his fellow party members how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u93	I conclude from this answer that documents are known to the cabinet that are not in the Chamber about a claim from Flanders. I need to think about how I'm going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u94	I just said this. If there are letters between Member States, they cannot always be public. That's important. However, I always think it would be wise to tell you what is going on. In case you do not want to hear it from me, I have even made a few suggestions from people in your own circle to whomever you might ask for it for free and for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you. That really brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u96	We will vote next week on the motions tabled.
