ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're back with us. There are six speakers on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Verhoeven of the D66 Group. He's gonna talk to us for no less than 15 minutes. We are going to do well, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. At least that sounds very inspiring and that will be necessary. After the good debate with the Temporary Committee on ICT a few months ago, I am now disappointed. The House of Representatives almost unanimously believes that the recommendation of our Committee of Inquiry should be taken over. The cabinet says it recognizes the committee's analysis and sees valuable measures in the report, but it is a fact that the cabinet does little to nothing. The Minister's letter breaths the weakening and undressing of sharp recommendations, joining existing structures and integrating them into ongoing projects and processes, which, according to the Committee, are not working properly after two years of research. There is therefore no reason to believe that anything will change in the ICT projects of the Empire. That's disappointing, bewildering and unheard of. My conclusion is that the cabinet wants to continue wasting billions of dollars on failed ICT projects. May I have a response from the Minister to this conclusion? Before I go into the cabinet letter, I first go into the relationship between the government and the market, because that is where, as far as my group is concerned, is at the heart of the ICT problem. The government has too little knowledge of ICT. This is recognized by the committee but also by the cabinet. This calls for a close relationship of dependence with industry. It's some kind of forced marriage, some sort of strangle society contract. Love comes from both sides, but is focused on completely different things. The government wants useful ICT projects, but doesn't know how. The market wants to make money and knows how very well. The government is, as it were, being held hostage by sitting on the lap of business, with the consequences: weak ICT project management, perverse incentives in procurement processes and unprofessional contract management. In normal human language: running out of costs and running out of time, much more costs due to projects that are attached to the original project and very often hours-invoice. Does the Minister really want to change this relationship, this way of working, this coherence and this interconnected link between business and government, and can he do so if one is so dependent on one another? I would like to respond to that key question before I go into the various points of the cabinet. D66 actually sees three ways to get a grip on ICT and on the billions of failures of the past. The first point is: first, sharper and independent tests. The committee has made recommendations for this. The second point is transparency and openness during a project. The third point is: after-sales payments and consequences vis-à-vis the companies concerned on the basis of the services provided. I'm gonna go in first on the pre-tests. The committee designed this by the ICT Examination Bureau, the BIT. I think that is the committee's main recommendation. It had to be a BIT with teeth. I heard the chairman of the committee say that it could be boys with crooked hats, who can really kick the brakes, an independent group, a small, dynamic club with knowledge of things, who can kick the brakes when the Chamber or the Cabinet starts a project that is not real or is approached too optimistic in terms of time or costs. Perhaps the project is not feasible at all and there is excessive optimism about an ICT application, which is not at all a solution to the problem. In short, an independent group of people who can say: don't do this. The minister put that BIT in the dentist's chair with teeth, as it were, and pulled out the teeth one by one. I'm gonna walk by those teeth. First of all, the BIT should not become a new bureaucratic layer, but a small, capable, independent club. The government writes: we place the BIT with the Chief Information Officer of the Empire, the National CIO, within Living and National Service. This makes it a bureaucratic body. By placing it with this high-level ICT official, the State CIO, it is no longer independent and not effective, as the report of the Elias Commission shows. I'd like to call this some kind of toilet-EEND construction. How is the independence of that BIT, which the cabinet says it wants to introduce, secured? How does this strengthen the CIO system? Does the Minister agree with the Temporary Committee on ICT that the BIT should not become a new bureaucratic body, but rather a small, efficient and effective club, which can kick the brakes? Secondly, the BIT should function as a kind of lock. A project can only start after the green light of the BIT. This minister only wants the CIO of each department "involves the test of BIT in its judgment." So it is no longer an independent club that can step on the brakes, but a club that gives an opinion, a civil servant or the minister can say: I am wrong about that. In this way the BIT becomes a toothless tiger. Nor does the BIT, if it is up to the minister and the cabinet, get a legal basis, while the committee has strongly advised it. Why does the Minister not consider a legal basis of the BIT necessary? How will the Minister ensure that the CIOs of each department are given sufficient perseverance? On this point, too, the Minister remains very cautious. Thirdly, according to the Court's Committee of Inquiry, the ICT Bureau should review all projects above EUR 5 million. Also this tooth pulls the minister out of the mouth of the BIT like a gripping dentist. He says: we are not going to do this for every project above 5 million; we are going to assess in a very different way whether such a test of BIT is necessary. This completes the dismantling of the original idea of the temporary research committee on ICT projects. What remains is a toothless tiger with no added value. To make matters worse, the Minister wants to see all-out ICT testing to be filled with business people, while the close link between business and the government I just started with is one of the main causes of the problem. What exactly does the distribution between civil servants and business within the BIT look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	I am also concerned about the interpretation of the BIT and which dolls are going to be sitting there, but I should not take the point made by the D66 spokesman that he says that there should be no business expertise in the BIT at all? I can hardly imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	I understand Mrs. Gesthuizen's question. Look, the BIT must be an organisation, a small, independent group of people, who can judge completely independently and without any interest about the feasibility and feasibility of ICT projects. Then you should not say that I agree with Mrs Gesthuizen and I do not mean that there are no business people in it. What we need to avoid is that it becomes a club of a number of civil servants and a number of people from the large service ICT companies, who decide whether or not a project is going to happen. The government and the business community are sitting on each other's laps and they're dependent on each other. There are also all sounds as if they would constantly fêt each other at all kinds of parties, putting each other under the guise of an e-dialogue all kinds of projects. In any case, we must ensure that it is not the people who enter the BIT. I really want a club that is outside the government, independent of the established companies and that can look at those projects with an outsider's eye. Otherwise, there will be no change in the structure we are now in, which has led to billions of costs. I will continue with my speech. Finally, the Minister wants BIT to be temporary. Can he indicate what the result should be before he cancels the BIT and can he set out concrete objectives for this? As far as my group is concerned, therefore, there will be an ICT testing agency, as the committee has intended, an ICT testing agency which is independent of the CIO system of senior ICT officials per department, which is also independent of the established companies that carry out all ICT assignments, and which can act independently at the time when an ICT project is being looked at too optimisticly, too naïvely, including by the Chamber. We discussed this extensively in the debate last time. I indicated at that time that I do not want us to give democracy to the full in the hands of BIT. But there must be an independent touchstone that is taken seriously, so that we do not start every time a project that we think a few years later: Boy, how did it come to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	Is Mr Verhoeven finished with his part on BIT?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	I have a question. Mr Verhoeven said that the Bureau should be independent and that it should be excluded, also independently of business. So everything has to be independent. In his previous speech, during the debate with the committee, Mr Verhoeven pointed out that it seemed logical for him to place the office under Housing and National Service. Now he thinks it makes sense not to put the desk underneath it. What have the considerations been for Mr Verhoeven to change his mind in this respect? What does he propose specifically to do with the BIT in terms of staffing and placement? I haven't heard a solution yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	I haven't said anything yet about the suspension of the ICT testing office. I haven't changed my mind either, as Mrs De Caluwe thought. I deliberately did not say anything about putting BIT under a particular ministry, because it is only about whether or not it should come under the Prime Minister. I want to stay out of that discussion. I think that if you rig a BIT under the direction of an official without a legal basis, an agency that is not allowed to test a project above 5 million, it doesn't matter if you hang it under the Prime Minister, the Minister for Housing or the Minister for Infrastructure. An independent test club can basically be hung under any ministry. We have a huge number of supervisors and watchdogs in this country who have been hanged somewhere but can indeed operate independently. Mrs. De Caluwe knows them, too. If we limit the discussion to "it must be hanged under the Prime Minister," it will be a symbolic discussion. I want a real I.T. Bureau review. As I have just indicated, I want it to have a legal basis. They have the other supervisors in the country, too. The Agency should be manned in such a way that those involved in the ICT and public sectors who do all these ICT projects are not at the table. I would also like the Bureau to check every project above 5 million. The committee advised all of that. If Mrs De Caluwe asks me where the Bureau should be hung, I say: not among the Prime Minister, who will never get the role that the committee wants in our country. I'd say just put the agency under the Minister for State Service, but make sure you have guarantees of independence. Then you have a strong BIT but it really doesn't matter what you hang it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	If I understand Mr Verhoeven correctly, he finds independence decisive, but not suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	Exactly. That's a very nice summary of what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	...in a very long speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	The beauty is indeed that I said it quite extensively, but that Mrs De Caluwé briefly summarized it. That is the cooperation I like to see in this Chamber. I'm moving on to my next point. This still falls under the heading "pre-action', namely the central direction, the central ICT direction. The committee recommended that one minister be responsible for ICT projects. In the debate with the committee, Mrs Gesthuizen and I spoke extensively about 'whether or not a minister for ICT'. The committee says: not one ICT minister but one final minister. I compare that in my view with the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is responsible for all the administrative burdens of all ministries. That's how I'd see it a little bit. I thought it was a good recommendation, but the cabinet says: we are not going to follow that recommendation, we are not going to run it centrally, but we are going to continue with each department for themselves. For example, the fragmentation remains intact, so the mess continues and so the ICT board is filled with spaghetti that is on the front of the committee's report. How does the Minister intend to structure and direct the spaghetti of organisations and responsibilities? Is the reason not to want to make one minister responsible, in fact, not just the fear of the great chaos that then ends up on one person's plate, with possibly all the consequences? The second point to control ICT projects is transparency during an ICT project. So now I'm going from "before" to "during a project." We have first of all become the notorious ICT dashboard. That was kind of an overview on which you could see the state of play in ICT projects. There were lights attached to them. It is known that all the lights have been on green in recent years and that all the projects went well according to the dashboard, while the costs have been screaming out of the claws. The cabinet has said that it is going to modify this completely inimitable and unreal dashboard. You'd think, "Happy, that's good news." But no, the solution for the lights, which were always on green while the costs got out of hand, is not adjusting the system. The criteria based on which the color of the lights is determined so that there may be an orange light or maybe even a red light, are not adjusted. No, the cabinet took the lights off. This is the same as in a city where all kinds of traffic lights are broken and green says: you know what, we remove all traffic lights; problem solved! I think that ridicul. This dashboard should give a real and true picture so that people can watch with projects so that they can see where it goes wrong and intervene in time. According to the Cabinet, the overall understanding of the ICT costs incurred, as recommended by the Committee, is also very difficult. It would require a multi-annual process of departmental administration to make this possible. We have already talked about the lack of human language when we talk about ICT. I ask the Minister whether this does not simply mean that the cabinet has no idea what it is spending on ICT projects. Doesn't the cabinet want to change that? In terms of knowledge and skills, I'm a little more positive. In this area, the cabinet takes on a number of recommendations, although the trend here remains very bad: we are already doing so much, it is already happening and we are working on it. But I have the feeling that in this area there will be a scoop on top of it. For example, I read that the Empire has an internal pool of about 100 flexible professionals. It is good that this internal pool is doubled to 200 fte, as the Minister writes. This may break up the relationship between business and government so that the government itself can have more knowledge. On what basis are these flexible professionals deployed? Does this only happen when things are bad or are they involved in the launch of any major project? In the debate with the committee, D66 has argued for a so-called MIT, a Mobile ICT team, a group of officials who can be deployed at each department when a major ICT project starts there. The committee was very positive about that. I can still hear Mr Ton Elias, the chairman of the committee, say that it was a good idea. Because he doesn't say that very often, that stuck with me. Is that what the minister now writes the MIT that we had in mind? Is this the Mobile ICT team that can be deployed in any department? If so, then I am very pleased that it will be there and I am also very curious when we will be able to look into its effects. The last thing I want to do is pay for performance afterwards. The committee makes a number of good recommendations in this area in order to make better use of the market on the one hand, which is a tension field and, on the other hand, to deal with the perverse incentives. For example, in the field of open source software, a code of conduct is proposed for suppliers, although that code of conduct should not, of course, be fully dictated by the lobbying organisation of ICT companies. In addition, results from the past must be taken into account, escape clauses in contracts must be introduced and more stringent action taken in the event of malfunctions. The Minister does agree in words with the recommendations in this area, but the solutions are not concrete and buttery in nature. In fact, no recommendation in which the Minister goes along is linked to a deadline or deadline. What exactly is he going to do now? He writes that he believes that an hour-invoice mentality should be avoided. But what will he actually do to avoid that? The same applies to the course to the court in the event of misconduct. When will that happen? Can the Minister give an example of a project from the past for which he would now go to court? Dialogue with the market also raises questions. How exactly does the Minister intend to shape them within the current procurement policy? The cabinet also wants past achievements to be taken into account. In what cases will the Minister do so? Can he also give us a concrete example from the past in which he would do so? The last point concerns the so-called national cloud. At the end of his letter, the Minister writes very positively about the possibilities of cloud technology and the possibility of linking all kinds of information files. This seems to be a classic example of business that says to the government 'know you can do all this' and of the government that answers: what a fantastic thing we are going to do. The Minister writes that the added value of big data lies in combining data files from different implementation organisations. By doing so, he implies that the goal of the national cloud is to link up all kinds of datasets and then to use them for a wide variety of purposes. The Minister further writes that the goal is a network of interconnected data centres within the European Member States. What exactly is the purpose of this? Has the Cabinet considered the possible impact of linking all this data to privacy and personal data, for example? Are the data centers where the government wants to store everything, well protected? This seems to me to be an example of a situation in which the cabinet may once again look too optimistic at an ICT project without considering in advance the possible consequences. I'm closing up. I see my time is already in the red, so I'll keep it short. The committee has done a good job. The members of the Chamber have almost unanimously underlined this. They also said that something really needs to be done with the committee's recommendations. The cabinet has written a letter from, I believe, 34 sides in which, above all, all recommendations are carefully dismantled, undressed and watered down. My central question in this debate is whether the cabinet really wants to control ICT costs or whether it really wants to continue secretly in the same way as it does now. In doing so, the public authorities are on their knees in the business community, have insufficient knowledge to counter and are in fact constantly fooled. I hope that the Minister's answer to that question will be unequivocally no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	After the fifteen minutes of Verhoeven we now get the half hour of Keijzer, at least 25 minutes, I round it up. I call Mrs Keijzer from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. In the summer of 2012, the temporary committee on ICT projects was set up with the government under the chairmanship of Ton Elias. The CDA pulled this together with the SP. The aim of the research was twofold, namely to identify social and financial costs arising from failing ICT projects, and to clarify how ICT projects can be better organised. The committee has investigated the progress of seven cases. That's good, because then you can see what went wrong and you can see if there are red lines that can give rise to improvement. I call the tunnels A73, C2000 and Werk.nl. This study lasted two years and the report was presented on 15 October last year. Thanks to Paul van Meenen, Hanka Bruins Slot, Manon Fokke and Paul Ulenbelt and of course to the chairman, Ton Elias. How frustrating it must be for these colleagues to read the response of the Minister for Housing and National Service on 30 January. More about that later. The committee shall begin its report with a determination. This is also underlined: 'The committee finds the following.' I would like to mention three or four of those findings. The government has no control over its ICT projects. Politics doesn't realize it, but ICT is everywhere. The government has insufficient insight into the costs and benefits of its ICT. On the basis of its research, the Committee makes 34 concrete recommendations. Of these, the main recommendation for the CDA is the establishment of a temporary IVT authority, the BIT, which stands for ICT testing. The BIT must be a small, efficient and effective organisation, the employees of which are independent thinking and working experts; not necessarily all ICTs, but people who can quickly assess whether a project has a chance of success based on their knowledge expertise and experience. The BIT then reviews the plans and documents under a number of basic rules, the ten BIT rules, which are also referred to by the Committee as the farmers' understanding rules. The BIT will review all projects of the Government over 5 million in which the ICT component plays an important role on a number of points prior to the call for tenders. However, it will also consider whether things are going well in the meantime. The government's reaction shows that it does not see that the BIT should be placed with the Ministry of General Affairs, but with the Minister for Housing and National Service, with the already existing CEO at the head of this BIT, without legal basis and without legal perseverance; thus without teeth. This is about something: every year, the government wastes between 1 billion and 5 billion of failed ICT projects, regardless of all the misery that comes from the users of these failed projects. All I have to do here is drop the abbreviations pgb and SVB and everyone knows what I mean. The reports on the waste of billions of failed ICT projects in the government are not new. The system doesn't work, or the costs rise and the system still doesn't work. It is therefore a good thing that the temporary committee has launched these seven ICT projects. What's going on out there? According to the latest annual report Company Rijk 2013 the government has launched three medium-sized and four large ICT projects since 2013. Medium size is about a project between 10 million and 20 million, a large project goes from 20 million euros. If the committee applies the statistics to these seven, as we read in the report, then six of them will fail in the coming years. If nothing happens, we will continue to receive messages as in recent times. Which ones have they been lately? The KEI project at Security and Justice, a quality and innovative justice programme with a budget of 60 million and a realisation of 200 million; or the integrated criminal justice system GPS with a budget of 30 million and a realisation of 400 million. At the Social Insurance Bank, the multi-scheme system has failed; costs: 44 million. The CDA Group therefore strongly supports the committee's recommendations. If the government does not take these recommendations to heart, we can set the foundations for the next parliamentary committee of inquiry on ICT projects in the government. So far it has not been possible to control the ICT projects in the government, not by the Chamber and not by the political and administrative leadership of the departments. The CDA Group therefore supports the committee's main recommendation, the creation of a temporary ICT authority, the BIT. In this context, the plea for the use of the ten BIT rules particularly appeals to us. In order to underline the urgency and breadth of the problem, the BIT should be directly covered by the Prime Minister. Minister Blok writes in his letter in response to this: allocation of specific responsibilities for sub-areas, however important, would undermine the performance of his task to promote the unity of government policy. The CDA Group does not see this and would like an explanation from the Minister. The CDA Group believes that BIT can only be an independent and authoritative body if we make the Prime Minister responsible for it. In the debate with the ICT Committee, the CDA Group tabled a motion on this issue, which is still above the market. I'd like to get an explanation from the cabinet. And if the cabinet continues, what is the position of the Ministerial Commissioner for Digital Government and what possibility does this Commissioner have to report himself? The Prime Minister presides over this committee. It all sounds like ICT spaghetti. But maybe I'm missing something and I'd like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mrs Keijzer first lists all the problems. I agree with her on that. Then she says she thinks BIT is very important. In accordance with the motion tabled by its group, it wishes to place the BIT under the Ministry of General Affairs. Mrs Keijzer says nothing about all kinds of other conditions, about which I have said a great deal myself, for example the legal basis, over 5 million, the implementation and so on. Is she gonna go into that or is the CDA gonna stare blind on that hanging? In the previous debate, this was also a bit the case. The CDA then filed a motion while there was no response from the cabinet. I am afraid that we are only going to talk about hanging now, whereas in my view the conditions are much more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	I am going to talk about all the other issues that Mr Verhoeven is talking about. The suspension of BIT under the Ministry of General Affairs is not a thing. This is not the place to ask another question, so let me just post a statement: how... Oh, no. That's how I start by asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	Stables never start with "how," Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u18	Stellers indeed never start with "how," so let me just keep it to a question. The style figure of the rhetorical question can of course also be found here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u19	I know Mr Verhoeven by now; he's just gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u20	I'm afraid so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u21	Just say your thingy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u22	My "thing," Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u23	You just used that word yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u24	Are you serious? In that case, this is Mr Verhoeven's thingy. How do you manage that, for example, the Ministry of VROM is seriously vulnerable and will answer to the Ministry for Housing and National Service? Isn't that why you need someone above the parties? In the eyes of the CDA, that is the Prime Minister and the Ministry of General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u25	I will not go into the various points made by Mrs Keijzer, but I want to be very clear about one thing. In this country we have many strong supervisors, watchdogs and organisations that can whistle back all Cabinets on all kinds of points. For example, we have the Authority Consumer & Market, which is not under the prime minister. We have the AFM, which is not under the prime minister. We have all kinds of inspections, which are constantly whistling back or stopping things, and all of which are not under the prime minister. They have all had good conditions: a clear task and mission, a clear positioning. What you hang up an organisation like Bureau ICT testing makes less of the ability to test independently than the harsh conditions you give it. I hope Mrs Keijzer is prepared to look at these points as well. I sincerely hope she is not staring blindly at that suspension under General Affairs. If the debate is about this, we will lose or win only that battle, when it must be about the billions we waste every year, and about which Mrs Keijzer also spoke so well in her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u26	Right, that's correct. That is why Mr Van Meenen, Mr Verhoeven's colleague, wrote this down in the report as one of the key points: ensure that the Prime Minister is responsible for this. I'm going down the road to the other points. The staffing is already in jugs and jugs. The CIO Empire will be in charge of the BIT. That's weird. The Committee concluded that the present CIO Empire has no independent and independent position and no perseverance. The Minister wrote in his letter: "The BIT therefore does not judge whether the project should start or not. That is the verdict of the departmental CIO." That's wrong; that's exactly where things go wrong. The BIT needs an independent and independent position, and perseverance. I would like a clarification from the Minister on this. How can he write this sentence in his letter? The ICT committee says she wants a German shepherd and this minister gives a poodle. That's just not what needs to be done here. The committee set strict criteria for BIT review. All projects of more than 5 million should be assessed by the BIT. Only projects with a positive BIT rating can start. The Minister's proposal also removes this 5 million-dollar limit. In addition, the opinion of the BIT is reduced to an opinion. "We'll take that." That's not the point. What exactly does the Minister mean by "dynamic testing"? According to the Minister, is it possible to stop a project on the basis of intermediate test results? Will the BIT also test those ongoing ICT projects? The Elias Committee considered that this had to be done. This is fundamental to prevent pitfall number one in failing ICT projects, namely "continue muddling." All in all, one of the main recommendations of the Elias Commission, namely a Prime Minister responsible for major ICT projects, is dropped by Minister Blok. I feel the frustration of the members of the temporary committee on ICT projects in the government and I can imagine these after two years of work. The Committee notes that the whole of the authorities that deal with ICT is chaotic and unclear. This has improved in recent years, such as the centralisation of ICT procurement and the bundling of ICT facilities in the government. However, much remains to be done. Does the Minister recognise that and how will he deal with this? I am thinking of the application of the ARBIT, the General Terms and Conditions for IT agreements. How's he gonna handle this? The CDA Group would like to know from the government how long the various recommendations can and should be implemented. Culture change and mentality change are long-term processes, but the problem is very urgent. How does the government see that? Will all BIT reports, including those on interim reviews, be sent to the Chamber? Transparency is a prerequisite for resolving ICT failure. Here is a spokesperson who is also a spokesman on the problems at the Social Insurance Bank. I can report that things aren't going well for a long time. I still haven't received the reports I requested on 3 March. How can you achieve better ICT if you are not transparent about it? The CDA Group really does not understand how the Minister proposes that the standards of good and bad on the ICT dashboard should disappear. The example of the non-functioning traffic lights that Mr Verhoeven just gave to me was very appealing. That was very visual. This has got to be better, doesn't it? How is it that the Minister wrote this? I would like to get an explanation of this and perhaps a mea culpa for Society has become increasingly dependent on ICT systems. Everyone knows that in everyday life. How vulnerable citizens are who depend on ICT systems, we see when paying the personal budgets by the Social Insurance Bank. We have discussed this on several occasions with the Secretary of State of the United States of America, but the end of these problems is not yet in sight. If only we had a BIT that could put his teeth in it. However, the construction that the minister is in favour of has no teeth at all. Today, the government has the opportunity to take the recommendations of the Elias Commission seriously and to ensure that something is actually done with the recommendations that the Elias Commission has written so clearly and readablely in the report. I am very interested in the answers given by this Minister. I would also ask him to give an opinion on the motion tabled earlier by the CDA Group, which is still above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Minister on his letter. A thick letter and that thickness is fully in line with the excellent work the committee has done, which has written a dike of a report. I do not debate very often with this Minister, and that is why I am going to explain to him how I am going to build up my speech. I start high, hummelhoch jauchzing, then I go to an absolute low point to end up somewhere in the middle. The beginning of the Minister's letter is quite good. It starts with a recognition of the problem, but I do not think that it will be possible to analyse the problem in its own right. A harbinger of little good is the Minister's comment on page 2: "In addition, more central guidance has been set up on the implementation of procurement pathways for generic ICT through the system of Chief Procurement Officers and Central Directors Purchasing (CPO/CDI). The government sees in the report the direction taken by developing and improving." That's what makes my eyebrows frown. For where in the report of the Elias Committee do I now read that we can continue on the course that has been set? 'Cause I didn't run into it. At the same time, the cabinet recognises the shortcomings. The figures included in the table on page 3 do not lie. It's just there in black and white. 29 of the projects examined, i.e. 70%, take much longer to come and 50% exceed costs. Continue on course? So I didn't think this was supposed to happen. I'm really happy when the eyebrows went down again.The cabinet decided to set up the BIT, and also very quickly, namely already in 2015. I'd like to ask the Minister what's going on. How far is the cabinet with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u28	Before Mrs Gesthuizen goes into the BIT, I would like to ask her a question about her analysis with highs and lows and which then ends somewhere in the middle. Mrs Gesthuizen says that we should not continue on the same path and she concludes that the cabinet actually says in the letter that it wants to continue on the same path. Isn't that hopeful beginning of that cabinet letter just a form of courtesy from this minister? Isn't it just that the cabinet speaks nice words to the committee, that it says it shares its analysis and that it sees valuable gifts in its recommendations but then goes its own way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u30	Okay, so Mrs Gesthuizen agrees with Mrs Keijzer's group and with my group that the cabinet is actually ignoring the committee and putting aside its recommendations and that it is actually writing a letter indicating how it intends to proceed with its own policy? Wouldn't it be shocking if the Cabinet did that? How can Mrs Gesthuizen still be positive about that? She's from the SP, she's from the real opposition, she's from the party that always says we have to tackle it, we have to change the course and things have to change. And she's positive about a minister saying he wants to go on in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u31	That's a serious accusation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u32	Certainly, I do not like to be put in the mouth, but to return to the first long question that Mr Verhoeven put in his further interruption: the short answer is 'yes'. This cabinet looks at the Committee's opinions on a number of very important points. I'm sorry about that. I also wondered a few times yesterday whether I should say that here, but I think that is the honour of the committee, its chairman and all the Members of Parliament who have been on the committee. We shouldn't have done it this way. We should have saved ourselves time and effort. If this is the effect of what the Elias Committee has brought forward, we should have saved ourselves the trouble. I am very sorry to hear that. I therefore find it a little unfortunate that Mr Verhoeven has provoked me to speak. And now I'm gonna get Mrs. De Caluweé over me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u33	Yeah, but it doesn't really get to the interrupting microphone. Oh, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u34	I thought Mr Verhoeven had another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u35	He was beaten out of the field, I think. Oh, no, Mr Verhoeven has already placed two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u36	Then I didn't count correctly. But that is another debate. Mrs Gesthuizen says: if this is the effect of what the Elias Committee has brought forward, then we could have saved ourselves the trouble. But is the responsibility of the Chamber not to say: look, Minister, you have written a letter that does not yet excel in clarity, and we would like to see those and those points that and those tightening up. That's the role of the Chamber, isn't it? That is also what the committee has said: the Chamber must take up its role and indicate how it would like to have it. I hope that Mrs Gesthuizen will take this further in her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u37	Sure. I'll take that as a welcome encouragement. I'm definitely gonna do that. But what I learned in the Chamber from that tactic is that the cabinet also serves itself in its letter "It's good and neat to say first what went well and what you're really happy with before you start shooting. That's why I arrived at the point of BIT. The cabinet has decided to at least set up a BIT and I am very happy with that. When I read that, I got happy. The BIT will also be set soon, as I said earlier, in 2015. I would like to ask the Minister: how are we doing? When can we indeed see the opening ceremony of BIT? The cabinet also says positive things about the integrated balancing framework. The cabinet will present the ICT implications of a particular proposal, or to reflect more prominent choices by explicitly making them a more important part of the existing Integrated Weighting Framework, the IAK. In doing so, the cabinet adopts the committee's recommendation for an assessment framework. I think that all sounds really good, but then it starts to crack. How exactly is BIT to be positioned? What function should it be assigned to? What role should it play? It is not in itself crazy to embed it in the existing structure. Although many gaps and shortcomings have been identified, the structure that we now have works for certain parts of course. There are also ICT projects that are going well. Then it's not so crazy to look for a place where you would have to place a new institution, a new instrument, a supervisor. However, if you continue reading, the monkey will come out of the sleeve. The Committee strongly recommends that the BIT be placed under AZ. My group would also be in favour of this. However, the cabinet decides not to do so: the CIO Empire becomes responsible. I really don't get it. The CIO Empire is part of the administrative apparatus. In my view, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has heard that the spokesmen who have spoken so far have said positively: we want an independent supervisor, someone who is not associated with and accountable for other matters at the same time. Then the BIT won't work. That does not seem to me to have been the intention of the committee. Not all projects with an ICT component above 5 million are tested. Both Mrs Keijzer and Mr Verhoeven have already mentioned this point. The committee has written about interim tests that could ensure that we do not continue to permeate on a road that we could see halfway through, that it is going to produce and that it is not going to end well. These intermediate tests, which could prevent this and which would allow BIT to say "better in half than in total error," are not included in the cabinet letter. They're just not mentioned. I don't understand that very well. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Why didn't he go into that? My one-after-last point is the worst I can say for myself. The BIT is not asked for a judgment. It's not very literal, but it actually says: the BIT gives some kind of advice; we can take advantage of that; we will. That's a nice commitment from the cabinet. It is an explicit or implicit opinion, what was it like in the letter? Involve him in his assessment. However, the BIT does not assess whether the project should start or not; that is the opinion of the departmental CIO. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Commerce to weigh the combination of risks and objectives of a project and to decide on the start of the project. In view of the analysis, in view of the committee's report and the outcome of the committee's work, this is a matter of concern. That is asking for rulers to get in the tights again, because in this way the test is not independent. In my view, Mrs Keijzer was the one who made it most clear: the Minister seems to want to continue on the same footing as we actually did. In one way or another, there has been a kind of clap of a society that has a question, a cabinet and a government that wants to meet it and a market that offers things that are actually too beautiful to be true and that you shouldn't really believe. There has been a kind of almost explosive mix that makes me think that decisions are being made and that people think of "we're just going for it" without a remote organization like the BIT being able to say: hoo, wait a minute, we have some extra expertise in the house and we think you shouldn't do it this way; that doesn't mean you have to let the project go completely, but you have to change it, because this way you can't go through with it. Finally, I would point out that there is also no legal basis for BIT. To be honest, it seems to be a bit of a toy in this way. My concern is very great. Let me get a little more concrete. Projects with an ICT component of more than 5 million are therefore not subject to standard testing, but it is unclear to me what criteria the Minister intends to test. When does a project meet criteria for testing? The Minister is very brief about this in his letter. I ask him to be more explicit about that now. The recommendation of the ICT Committee, which is therefore being pushed into the wind, is about 5 million. I imagine that as a cabinet you say: we think that this is too low a limit; we think that it should be 10 million. But at least determine in this Chamber what the rule is. I think that the Minister is getting more and more bogged down in administrative language in the letter on page 10. For example, he writes: "The departmental CIO explicitly weighs the BIT report into his final CIO judgment." What am I supposed to imagine about "explicit consideration"? What is the difference between "just consider" or "implicit consider"? It's very administrative. I do not really want to be fooled by that kind of beautiful language, because in the end, as colleagues have said, we will have very little in return for what the committee has recommended to us. How will the Chamber be informed? I want to know when to pay extra attention based on a strict or negative BIT judgment. If I get a report attached to a report from the BIT stating that there are particular risks if you carry it out that way, then I know that I have to pay extra attention and that the Chamber should be extra alert. The Minister says that the Chamber will be informed through the Annual Reporting Company Rijk. I prefer to see it at least twice a year and separately for ICT. Can the Minister respond to that? I come to a number of other points, starting with bringing together the places where ICT is concerned. Now these are Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, which are part of this minister, namely Living and National Service, Security and Justice and Economic Affairs. I am an ICT spokesman on behalf of my group, and I can tell this Minister: I am running from one meeting to another. Well, that's a good thing to say. At least my group will know that. Now the committee says: bring that together a little more; at least take care of it. We are already suggesting that the Ministry of EZ be made more responsible for this with that BIT that brings together the responsibilities of BZK, Home Affairs and Home Affairs and National Service, one on the provision of services to citizens and entrepreneurs and the other on the management of the Empire. No, the cabinet says, we're not gonna do that. The committee says that it is too fragmented and that there is too little perseverance among officials and directors. If the Minister says that the cabinet is not going to do it this way and that it will continue the way it has done it, how will the situation, this spaghetti, be improved? I don't see it. The reasoning that BIT could not fall within the scope of General Affairs is, in any case, flawed. Why is that getting out of there so quickly? Why can the responsibilities of this minister responsible for improving business management not be combined with the improvement of government digital services for citizens and entrepreneurs, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is about? After all, the Committee states that the general conditions creating ICT policy must be placed with one minister. I'm sure that's what we prefer. Hopefully a majority of the Chamber will persist in it. I'm here to talk to you about an hour's bill. I call payments, too high costs, extra work; in short, a tragedy. We are talking about the General Terms and Conditions for IT agreements (ARBIT). The Minister does not indicate how he will improve the application of the rules of the ARBIT. This is necessary because practice shows that the provisions are not working properly. See the sometimes dramatic cost overruns! What is the Minister going to do about this in concrete terms? Another point is the ICT dashboard. The criticism of the Elias Committee was very fundamental. It asked for better, more useful and better presented information. It is, of course, a bit faint of the cabinet to pretend that this criticism only has to do with the color lights or the fact that there are lights on at all. I believe that Mr Verhoeven has already pointed this out with his example of the traffic lights in the city. Of course, that wasn't the point at all. The committee simply said that the ICT dashboard should contain good and useful information as soon as possible. In my view, the committee used the term'senseful information' in this context. That's what I want. Then you don't come by saying: then we abolish what wasn't really any indication, namely always on green lights, but away. No, you'll have to do more. What will the Minister do to ensure that the ICT dashboard is improved? I have one more question about learning and skill. On page 19 of his letter, the Minister writes that a special training programme in the field of ICT has been developed for the top management of the state service. This programme focuses on managing ICT projects and on the role of client. I think that in itself is very positive. It looks clearly at how the pool of people we can use can be increased. There is also very creative thinking about, for example, remuneration policy. I encourage the Minister not to push it too far, but it is good that the Empire looks at how smart, good ICTs can be attracted. What possibilities do we have and how can we reward them well? But a programme for top management tastes to me like there's just been a management course, and not one that's really about ICT. Isn't that right? That is not the intention. When it comes to the well-managed of a project, the minister keeps writing "we already have," "we already do," "we have since 2008," "since 2010 the empire with I-Interim Rijk has an internal pool of about 100 flexible and experienced professionals" and "there are already projects to attract more ICT professionals." That kind of comment strengthens my suspicion that the cabinet does not really consider the findings of the Elias Committee to be very important. The cabinet seems to consider the report to be far less important than the Chamber. Is this true? I'm rounding up. My conclusion is that the cabinet has missed the portee of what the Elias Commission has said. The Elias Commission said: more central management and responsibility and more overall overview of projects and expenditure. I think the Minister's reaction is totally defensive. I would like to say that the Minister should get out of his shell and not be so afraid of what the Elias Commission has proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has received a strong mandate from the temporary committee ICT. The Commission's list of 34 recommendations should ensure that the enormous annual waste is avoided in the future. A large majority of the Chamber asked the Minister for each motion to indicate how the Committee's 34 recommendations could be operationalised, implemented and monitored. I would like to begin by thanking once again the temporary committee on ICT for its thorough work, the detailed analysis and the clear report. In his response to the report of the Temporary Committee, the Minister indicated that he would embrace almost all the recommendations. For the VVD, it is important that the whole range of measures should ensure that the abuses identified by the committee are avoided in the future. The Committee's conclusions are firm: the government has not controlled its ICT projects, the business case is weak, the calls for tenders and project management are too short. In view of the firm conclusions contained in the final report, the VVD considers that the whole range of measures does not sufficiently prevent future problems, although the Minister takes on board the recommendations and takes them up. The letter does not excel in clarity, let's just say. The committee has made very clear recommendations. Then the VVD would also like to see concrete and clear measures. That is why it wants to tighten up a number of important measures. Let me start straight away with the subject that gets the most attention during the debate with the temporary committee on ICT projects and again today: the temporary Bureau on ICT testing, i.e. the BIT. A thorough review at the beginning of a project is half the work. The creation of BIT is therefore the committee's main recommendation. The opinions of the Committee and the Minister differ on the placement of BIT. The VVD has carefully weighed up the committee's recommendation and the Minister's approach and has reached the following conclusion. The Ministry of General Affairs is responsible for monitoring the unity of cabinet policy and has no responsibilities for sub-areas of cabinet policy. Putting an agency under a certain ministry alone doesn't give power yet. For these reasons, the VVD does not consider it desirable to be placed under the Ministry of General Affairs, although it fully understands the Committee's concern that the independence of BIT is of the utmost importance. Mr Verhoeven has already referred back to the great importance of independence in his first term. The BIT must be able to judge independently. If this can be guaranteed, it is acceptable for the VVD to place the BIT under the CIO Empire with the Ministry for Housing and National Service. A number of strict conditions must then be met, which are not now contained in the Minister's letter. For the VVD, it is important that most of the expertise in the BIT is externally attracted and that the quality and independence of the BIT is monitored. The VVD also wants the trade minister to be able to deviate from a BIT advice. To this end, a special procedure must be followed. For example, the Minister must first submit his or her decision to the Council of Ministers on the grounds that he or she will have to share that reasoned decision with the Chamber. An opinion from the BIT should therefore not be non-binding. Derogations may be made only in highly exceptional cases and under strict conditions. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he feels about this condition. If it helps, the VVD is willing to give direction to that, for example through a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u39	A question from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u40	I think it is hopeful that Mrs De Caluwé, who is in some way stuck between the Minister and the Elias Commission, is trying to find a position in which the VVD can get a grip on ICT projects. She says: I think it's okay if BIT comes under the highest ICT official. I'm not going to use the term "CIO Empire" anymore. I'm just gonna call him the highest ICT official from now on. Then we all know what we're talking about. It's the central ICT boss at the official level. Is it possible to hold off on the failure of independence when an independent watchdog is placed under the direction of an official?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u41	As the committee has also pointed out, it is very important that the CIO Empire should continue to give me the name of 'the CIO Empire'. The Minister has indicated that he is giving this CIO Empire an independent position. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees the interpretation of that independent position. Anyway, if he wants to give the CIO Empire more perseverance, overview and insight into what's going on, it's not so crazy to hang such a BIT, that a judgment with which the organization itself works is under a CIO Empire. But it does mean that you have to guarantee independence sufficiently through the staffing of the BIT. It must be sufficiently independent. And you will have to apply the farmers' understanding rules that the committee has put forward; I will come to that. You're gonna have to make that SMART too. Then you have very clear rules according to which you will test such a project.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u42	I'm just gonna say it sharp. The committee concluded that they were political choices and that it was political naivety, both of the cabinet and of the Chamber, which led to the waste of billions by ICT projects. Next, Mrs De Caluwe says: we can hang the club that is going to stand on the brake under an official. I'm just gonna say it the way it is. An official is an official and cannot reverse political decisions. An official is not in a position to do so. An official carries out policies that politicians have made. How can you hang an independent watchdog, who can step on the brake, under an official? Surely that can never lead to the function we are looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u43	First of all, if you put it under General Affairs, it'll come under an official. In the government, it's full of civil servants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u44	That's why it shouldn't come under an official.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u45	But that would argue for it to be completely out of the question. The committee has looked into this too, but it has not found any way of doing so. If you then hang it up with an official, you better hang it up where there is also responsibility for the implementation of the projects that are ahead, because you have to have continuity, you have to have a linking pin. But in order to guarantee that independence, you will have to have very strict test criteria. You have to make SMART to ensure independence from the position of BIT, on which Mr Verhoeven also agreed with me when I interrupted him. The position of BIT doesn't matter very much, it's a matter of having to make an independent assessment, that this consideration and the assessment that follows from it is not non-binding and that it is then cut loose from the execution of a project.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u46	Isn't that linking pin that Mrs. De Caluwe is talking about the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u47	No, because the Prime Minister is absolutely not about ICT projects. General Affairs is precisely designed so that it is not a department of commerce. Perhaps Mrs Keijzer refers to the presidency of the Prime Minister of the Committee on ICT, but it is simply a question of allowing such a BIT to operate independently. You can't guarantee that independence by hanging it with the Prime Minister. You must have an escalation model. At a time when two ministers can't get through one door and disagree on the implementation of ICT projects, you should also be able to have an escalation and not hang a BIT under the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u48	The Prime Minister is Chairman of the Digital Government Ministerial Committee and Chairman of the Council of Ministers, but the VVD does not want the Prime Minister to be the leader of the BIT, while the Committee of which Ton Elias is the prominent chairman strongly advises this on page 115 of her report. I don't understand. Doesn't Mrs De Caluwe think, like the CDA, that if we don't do this again in five years' time, we will be here to discuss a report from a parliamentary committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u49	It is not wise to make the Prime Minister president or to make him part of a sub-project. You shouldn't invest that in General Affairs. A home authority just came in. It is also invested at Wonen and Rijksdienst. It was also possible to choose to place it in the General Affairs Committee. You set a precedent; you don't want to set sub-projects at General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u50	This isn't about sub-projects. Mrs De Caluwe just said that the Prime Minister is not responsible for any part of the policy. This is about ICT. One of the findings of the Elias Commission is that ICT is everywhere. Perhaps after Minister Blok's reply, if that remains the same as his opinion in the letter, the VVD is willing to move on this point, but I find it very disappointing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u51	ICT is everywhere, personnel policy is everywhere. There are a lot of subjects that are everywhere, but you don't invest them in the Ministry of General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u52	I hope that Mrs De Caluwé realises that ICT is currently causing a huge change in the way our society works, but that aside. I would just like to comment on the fact that BIT is going to fall under the CIO Empire. I get the feeling that it is, of course, a farce to think that it is going to be an independent committee, an independent club, that it is going to be very easy for the VVD, which is now running, to say that it would be preferable not to have it. Couldn't it be that when the VVD gets back on the opposition benches, the VVD regrets it and says: we should have chosen a truly independent ICT committee to review major projects, because now we are still dealing with the baked pears?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u53	That consideration will be made independently of the position you are in. I really think that such a BIT should be independent. And that it must be able to come to an independent decision. That is why I would also like to know from the Minister how he intends to shape this independence from the position of the CDI. I think that's very important. That's independent of the position I'm in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u54	I find that very difficult to believe. That is the way it works in politics, so I'm just saying: Mrs De Caluwe makes one mistake, that CIO Empire is not independent. I really do not know what report this spokesperson of the VVD has read, but I read precisely in the report of the Elias Committee that this CIO Empire is totally insufficiently independent. So I think it is a very unfortunate conclusion that Mrs De Caluwe draws.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u55	That is why I think it is very important to ensure that independence by attracting most of the people involved in BIT externally. You have to make sure you have a good mix of people in BIT, so that you can guarantee that independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u56	The committee headed by Mr Elias says: hang that watchdog under the Prime Minister. However, the cabinet and the VVD group say: hang him under an official. You wouldn't believe it, but it is. Mrs. De Caluwe made the comparison with the home authority. As a matter of fact, I was very closely involved in that myself. I would like to inform Mrs De Caluwe that this authority will not be covered by an official. It will be subject to an independent inspection outside the Ministry. So that's something completely different from being directly under an official. Does Mrs De Caluwe see that crucial difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u57	The committee also considered whether it was possible to include it in an inspection or under the General Court. However, the committee concluded that this was not a possibility. So you can't let it fall under those organs, but you want to guarantee independence. In fact, the question was asked at that time: which ministries can we place it at? It was said: none of these ministries. So it was a negative choice to leave it with General Affairs. Mrs Keijzer says that the Prime Minister will then be responsible for it. But as the committee indicated, the prime minister will not be responsible for the BIT as such. The Prime Minister will then only be responsible for the independence and quality of the BIT, but not for the substantive opinions. So they're not gonna hang under there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mrs De Caluwe and I find each other when we say that the watchdog does not necessarily have to fall under the prime minister, under the Ministry of General Affairs, to be successful. But we do not find each other on the point that it is enough to hang an independent watchdog under an official, while an official is by definition a performer of political choices and of cabinet policy. An official is not going to whistle back a minister and say: ho, ho, ho, mister or madam, you should not do this ICT project at all. I find it naive of the VVD that she thinks you can solve this by hanging the independent watchdog for ICT projects under an official. Is the VVD Group prepared to reconsider this? It would really be a horrible looming mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u59	At least the VVD comes with solutions and solutions to ensure that independence. In my interruption I asked Mr Verhoeven what solutions he saw. He did not want to make any choices in this respect. He just said that the agency should be independent, but I couldn't figure out how to do that. I would also like to receive help from Mr Verhoeven. At least the VVD comes up with solutions and shows how to guarantee that independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u60	I understand that Mr Verhoeven has something to say, but I used ICT against him for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u61	This wasn't the ICT, it was the chairman who made a small mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u62	I think it's very digital.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u63	Absolutely. I will reach out to Mrs De Caluwe. I will come up with a motion in the second term which sets out exactly how the BIT is to be hung. I hope the group of the VVD will then support me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u64	The VVD is also willing, as I have just indicated, to indicate a solution direction. I could also table a motion on that. That brings me to the political responsibility of the Chamber. The Committee has indicated that the Chamber should be much more alert to ICT projects and take up its role. This means, on the one hand, being on top of it when it comes to monitoring the business case and the costs and, on the other hand, preventing a project from becoming unnecessarily complicated and costly because of all the extra demands of the Chamber. The BIT judgment gives the Chamber more insight into how that role should be fulfilled. In addition, the Chamber is given the opportunity to have motions and legislative proposals reviewed by the BIT. Now that we have the opportunity to exercise proper parliamentary control over large-scale projects, we must also seize them. Furthermore, the Minister did not explicitly state in his letter that he would like the examination of BIT to be carried out according to the ten farmers' understanding rules provided by the Committee. Will the Minister have these rules applied by BIT and will he make those rules SMART? Creating the SMART rules will promote the independence of BIT. For example, it is stated in the committee's farmers' understanding rules that there is a need to assess the business justification. A more SMART target would be to indicate what the goal of a project should be, who it will be running, when it should be ready and what it will cost. A final comment on BIT concerns a passage on page 10 of the Minister's letter, in which he states that the CIO Rijk receives a copy of the BIT report. Since, according to the Minister, the CIO Empire becomes head of the BIT, I assume that he is involved in any active advice. I'd like a confirmation from the Minister. In his letter of 30 January, the Minister states that he does not want all projects above 5 million tested by the BIT but above all the complex projects. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. Such a distinction should clarify exactly what is meant by "complex." Although this seems to be a logical choice and there is certainly something to be said for it, the VVD believes that the choice for all projects above 5 million seems to be a purer choice. I would therefore ask the Minister to agree to the testing of all projects above 5 million. If it turns out to be simple projects, the BIT will be ready with the review rather quickly, so it will not be much extra work. At present, Gateway Reviews for peer review of projects are being used to a satisfaction. How does the Minister see the future of these Gateway Reviews now that there are BIT tests and it doesn't seem desirable to do things double? The Committee recommended that more information be included on the dashboard, such as the costs and benefits of a project, staffing and business justification, by providing more insight and control options. The Minister indicated that he would like to look at earlier proposals and inform the Chamber about enlargement before the summer. That's too noncommittal. The Minister felt that the costs and benefits of projects should be included in particular, in view of the fact that it had proved impossible for the committee to identify exceedances and waste on projects. Can the Minister at least now undertake to include this information? The Temporary Committee on ICT has made a number of recommendations on procurement and contract management. In this respect, too, most of the recommendations are accepted by the Minister. A number of changes have already been speeded up, such as centralisation of ICT procurement and professionalisation of contract management. However, the committee's recommendations on market consultation and the functional procurement of projects say that the minister is difficult to implement due to the generic nature of the Procurement Act and its administrative burden. However, now that the Procurement Act is being amended due to the EU Procurement Directive, the VVD sees an opportunity to add these new elements. Can the Minister make an effort to do so and also call for unnecessary and obstructive rules to be removed from the current law? Can the Minister also indicate whether the ARBIT escape clauses also apply to the hiring of individual ICT consultants? In other words: does the hiring of consultants always involve a contract for a contract, in which termination is possible? Many recommendations are accepted by the Minister. My input focuses on the measures that are crucial for the success of the committee's recommendations and on the actions of the minister which are still very unclear. In addition to procedures and rules, however, the committee's report also deals with the need for cultural change. The setting up and carrying out of projects remains human work. The measures must be accompanied by a change in the way projects are handled. How is the Minister going to shape this change? My final point concerns a further step. We are talking about the project phase of ICT pathways, but there is still much to gain in the management phase. I would like to hear from the Minister when and how he is going to examine the management phase in order to find out how waste and mismanagement can be dealt with there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u65	I call Mr Fritsma of the Freedom Party. After Mrs Oosenbrug's contribution, who will be speaking after Mr Fritsma, I am very much considering suspending for lunch. That seems like a natural moment to me. That's probably a little early, but then after lunch, when we're a little tasty, we can listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. The Temporary Committee on ICT has shown in a very good way how seriously the government has failed in the field of ICT use and ICT projects. Unfortunately, this failure has cost the taxpayer a great deal of money. According to the committee, the amount wasted is between EUR 1 billion and EUR 5 billion. This astronomical amount proves, of course, that action must be taken very quickly and that there is no time to waste to put things in order. The first obvious question to the Minister is what has already been done since the Commission's report was issued to limit further financial damage. What improvements have been made? More importantly, could the Minister explain why important recommendations from the committee are not accepted? The PVV Group also believes that the committee report is not sufficiently taken seriously by the cabinet. As far as the PVV Group is concerned, all the committee's recommendations can be accepted, including the proposal to set up an ICT testing office and place it at General Affairs. Given all the amounts involved in ICT projects and all the problems we have seen in recent years, such an independent watchdog in that place is absolutely necessary. That watchdog must, of course, be strong enough to draw a line through questionable projects or calls for tenders. Why doesn't the Cabinet choose that? Of course, a toothless club wouldn't do us any good. The taxpayer simply needs to be much better protected than the cabinet and other groups have in mind. The ICT debacles in government are, of course, also an expression of bad governance within the government in general; let us not forget that. Ignorant managers were given all the space to make things fall apart without intervention. How does the Minister assess this point and what solutions does he see to greatly improve the functioning of the government and its staff? For example, are there going to be ignorant managers fired and something is going to happen to reverse established practices within the government? How does the Minister see this? The ICT debacles are, of course, also explainable from a much too cumbersome and bureaucratic government. Does the Minister share the view of the PVV Group that something should be done about this too? If you make the government smaller and clearer, then the ICT systems will of course go along with that. A less complex government leads to less complex ICT systems. You can say that a cumbersome government with a multitude of small rules and a multitude of departments and officials that are linked together cannot even be automated. There is also much to blame for politics. That has also been demonstrated by the committee. At the time, Minister Donner came up with the already often mentioned ICT dashboard. For example, the reconstruction of the Municipal Basic Administration received a 10, the highest figure. This was proudly presented to the Chamber, while the ICT project was in fact running on all fronts. Doesn't the cabinet agree that the Chamber with that ICT dashboard has actually just been smeared in the eyes? An image was created of fantastic ongoing ICT projects, while in fact everything failed. I'd like a response. All in all, we are talking about a great financial drama here. If billions of euros of taxpayers' money go up in smoke, then it must also be clear who is politically responsible for this. Unfortunately, the committee was unable to answer that question properly. Perhaps the Minister himself could try to answer that question. The cabinet must also act in its own right, because a great deal of confidence must be regained after the chaotic and uncontrolled money bounce, which unfortunately was accompanied by all ICT projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr. Chairman. There are ten kinds of people: those who understand binary and those who do not understand. For example, after reading the final report of the Temporary Committee on ICT, it also seems to be with ICT projects and the government. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that ICT projects and government have been exposed but difficult to combine. We are already many reports by the General Court of Auditors, the National Ombudsman, many Gateway Reviews on major ICT projects and a report by the House of Representatives itself, but apparently not enough has been learned from them. Apart from the fact that it has long been necessary to make it clear that a great deal of taxpayers' money is being wasted on public ICT projects, and apart from the many recommendations of the Temporary Committee on ICT, I would like to call for this clear report and the momentum to be used to actually do something. "Towards a grip on ICT" sounds like music to the ears. That seems to be the case with the government, when it says it takes over the recommendations. However, when I read the results, I have some doubts. This starts with the relativisation of the bad experiences with ICT in the government, by stating that projects are also out of control and fail in business. That may be so, but it does not show sufficient urgency with regard to the great waste of public money. The comparison with business shows that ICT projects can be very complex, but this is without prejudice to the need to seize any opportunity to reduce waste. Can the Minister share that view with us? Does he also share the view of the PvdA Group that it is wrong to trivialise the consequences of the problems in the government with ICT? The government makes a different choice for the positioning of the most striking advisory body proposed by the committee, the BIT, the ICT Examination Office. Where the committee proposed a place at the Ministry of General Affairs, under the Prime Minister, the government makes the choice to place the BIT under the National CIO and thus at the Ministry of Housing and National Service. The Ministry of the Interior has had this task for about 25 years, as we read in the report, but does not carry it out sufficiently. So something really needs to be done to ensure that this is done now. The PvdA can support the choice of the cabinet on its own, but it is of the utmost importance that the bureau becomes independent, objective and highly expert. In that context, I have already mentioned a BIT with a byte. In my view, it is a solid body with excellent ICT knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u68	It is nice that Mrs Oosenbrug also says that the reaction of the cabinet may be a little heavier and may have a little more to it. As with Mrs De Caluwe, I am concerned about the fact that BIT may be transferred to the CIO Empire. If Mrs Oosenbrug herself finds that this has not been going well for decades, how can we bring a new organisation, which we believe should be more independent, more stringent, leaner-and-meaner than what is now, into an institution that has so far only shown that it cannot function in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u69	As far as I know, there's never been a BIT organized under the CIO Empire. What we are going to do as a chamber is take matters into our own hands. We are now going to set the frameworks with the Chamber. I heard several people are preparing motions. That's really good. Let's do that as a room. Let us give those teeth and say: fine, it is housed there. After all, it is about the positioning of the BIT and not about the question where you put it at some point. The BIT, and not the CIO Empire, is ultimately the department that is going to advise us. If we give the BIT enough grip to organize it, then it just has to work. At least we have to send it as a Chamber and give the boxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u70	But I see that as a vision that would mean that there would be a BIT as we all want with experts who know a lot about it and who are critical and think independently. That BIT may report to the Chamber must be the responsibility of a CIO Empire at the same time and may, at the same time, independently inform the Chamber with its critical analysis, that it does not have to answer for a report to the CIO Empire. This analysis can, of course, be positive, but will be very critical in a number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u71	Sure. That is ultimately the view of my group. In addition, as a Chamber, we can put forward our own motions and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u72	I don't like the view of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u73	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u74	There's just not much thought about the problem. Let's do it now. We have the opportunity to follow up on a number of recommendations from a committee of inquiry to ensure that we do not waste billions more on ICT projects. Like Mrs De Caluwe, Mrs Oosenbrug is now saying that we can hang that watchdog under an official. That just doesn't work. I hope Mrs Oosenbrug is prepared to think about the consequences if you hang a watchdog under a civil servant. Then it becomes an executive lapdog. It cannot become a strong review office for an official. The Minister's attempt to do so remains to be understood. After all, he prefers to keep the direction in his own hands. But the House of Representatives has an expensive responsibility here, namely to prevent that billions of dollars from being wasted. I put the same question to Mrs Oosenbrug as to Mrs De Caluwé: would you consider your position and consider not placing the watchdog under an official?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'd really like to think. Actually, I always do, so that's kind of standard with me in the package. We can be very difficult about it, but my vision is as it is. I believe that as a Chamber we are setting the frameworks. Mr Verhoeven actually says that any proposal we make as a Chamber is not worth anything at all. This Chamber may be tabling a motion setting out clear frameworks for what it wants from the BIT, but Mr Verhoeven said that this would not be worth anything. I don't share that vision. I believe, however, that as an independent Member of Parliament, I can table a motion in which I can submit frameworks. I want an independent agency to do these tests. It may be hung under the CIO Empire or under anything. In the end, it's about BIT. What's BIT gonna do? Do we give the BIT teeth or do we indeed say: when it comes to hanging there, will it not be worth anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mrs Oosenbrug is an independent MP, as is all the other 149 Members of Parliament. However, the many tens of thousands of officials employed by the Empire are by definition not independent. An official cannot be independent, because it is his job to implement cabinet policy. If you put the BIT under the direction of an official, as suggested by the cabinet, then the highest ICT official of the government becomes the head of the ICT watchdog. In that case, regardless of the framework envisaged by Mrs Oosenbrug, the BIT can never be an independent hard test organisation that can stand on the brakes. Then the official, who, in his role as a watchdog, must carry out the Minister's policy, is no longer a watchdog. What Mrs. Oosenbrug wants is impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u77	I do not agree with Mr Verhoeven. The Chamber is asking for the BIT. The report asks for a BIT. The Temporary Committee on ICT has asked for this. Mr Verhoeven calls it a relationship between a boss and a group of people who will be sitting there. I don't see it that way. I see BIT as an independent body. That has to get somewhere in the organogram, but it's about the BIT, what it does and what it does for the Chamber, so it can also mean for us as MPs, and for the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mrs Oosenbrug speaks of a "bit with a bite." That's nice, but this reminds me of the Crodino commercial. That is not the feeling I want to have when I talk about a review organisation that is really going to do something about that waste of 1 billion to 5 billion taxpayers' money. There has just been a debate on whether the review organisation should be covered by an official. It is even more important that Mrs Oosenbrug responds to the question of how she thinks about the committee's opinion that the Prime Minister should be responsible for this and that he is the one who can really keep pressure on the kettle. Now, for example, the Minister of VWS has to discuss with Minister Blok whether her project is good and can proceed. I would like to receive a response from Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u79	Let me explain the joke. I was referring to BIT with a "byte." This means that people come with a sense of business. So it can be "bite" in the sense that you bite, so the teeth of D66, but in the other way of writing it means that the mind of things is chosen. Apart from that, Crodino's joke was of course also very fun. Mrs Keijzer asks: why not under the General Affairs? I believe that we have had a debate here with the Temporary Committee on ICT and about the same spokesperson on why this would not be desirable. I can repeat that debate or explain again why it should not fall within the scope of General Affairs, but I think that at that time we found that it would not be useful to give that power to the Prime Minister. This concerned precisely the situation of two ministers arguing with each other. What is the Prime Minister supposed to do? Who is ultimately responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u80	If you have to explain a joke, it's not going well. I think it's better to get back to the content. I would like Mrs Oosenbrug to explain why the Labour Party Group does not support the opinion on page 113 of the report of the Temporary Committee on ICT: "hang the BIT under the Prime Minister." I ask this all the more, because it is between 1 billion and 5 billion tax money that has evaporated and that, for example, all the cuts that forced the PvdA to its knees did not have to be partly made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u81	Let me repeat: we do not think it wise to hang it with the Prime Minister, precisely to ensure that independence. It's about the BIT review and not about where it finally comes from. If you lay it down with the Prime Minister, you'll lay a certain responsibility on him that I don't think is desirable under state law. In my speech with the committee, I explained that you need to look at who will ultimately be responsible for what. The BIT is going to advise the Chamber and the Cabinet. So why should the Prime Minister be given a role in this? Is he gonna get paid when something goes through? How are we gonna see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yeah, absolutely. Now it remains in the bosom of the ministry where there is a political wish to be implemented. If that keeps on going and there's muddying, it won't come out. We really need someone who is above the parties and who, as Prime Minister, can say: this is not going well, this has to be different. I have one last question. Where does the law state that the Prime Minister is not allowed to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u83	It doesn't feel right to me, but I didn't say that state law states that it's not right; it feels that way to me. As far as responsibility is concerned, other projects have shown that the Court of Auditors has also asked for cases which were not ultimately feasible, which has led to the launch of two projects. It is not a problem that is confined to the cabinet and the projects, but it is a combined problem. We must look for solutions. You talk about the content, but then go to the content of the BIT: what can the BIT mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u84	The ICT Committee's report contains the solutions: a BIT under the prime minister with perseverance. I do not recognize anything of this in the speech of the PvdA and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u85	The BIT is embedded in the existing structures and my group has serious doubts about the independence of BIT. In this way, BIT seems to run the risk of becoming a new bureaucratic link. In addition, the selection of the new projects to be examined is not made by the BIT itself but by the CIO on the basis of risk. Although "all ICT projects over 5 million" may be a little broad, can the Minister indicate how many projects we are talking about on an annual basis? Will the BIT select the projects itself? Finally, some of the human resources should be made up of experts, and there is also the hope that it will be an interesting career opportunity for staff in the CIO department. But in order to work well, employees need to be given a lot of substance. For this to happen, very good ICTs need to work at BIT for a longer period of time. Do you have enough to do with good ICTs? It is often a combined problem of organization, man, process and technique together, as we read in the report. Can the Minister explain how he is going to organise the impact of BIT in terms of independence, good staff and the possibility of a wide-ranging investigation? Is the Minister going for the related bite that my group would like to see? The Minister is very formalistic about the ICT decisions of independent administrative bodies: he has no control over them. That is formally correct, given the independence of these performers. For my group, however, it is important that the major projects of the ZBOs should also be covered by the functioning of the BIT and that ICT practices should also be improved in the case of ZBOs. These organisations are also concerned with the use of public money. The Minister cannot just hide behind the rules in force. Would the Minister like to clarify in what cases and how BIT can have an impact on ZBOs and how supervision of their ICT projects is strengthened? The Minister largely ignores the use of open source. For example, he notes that open source is widely used for servers, but does not seem to have the ambition to use more open source. I would like to quote the Vendrik motion, which, in the House of Representatives, was adopted in 2002 and is up to today. I am considering reinvigorating this motion, because until today, the government is stuck with major software providers, because they have been supplying the systems for a long time and it is very difficult to change them. This dependency can only be reduced if the government explicitly chooses to make a plan to stop using a particular programme. In doing so, it is necessary to consider how the old data will remain usable and can be used in a new system. The use of open standards could help with this. Following the Vendrik motion, my group would like the government to be independent of any supplier within five years. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's going to organize that. In the debate with the Temporary Committee, I tabled a motion together with Roald van der Linde on the adequacy of the current ARBIT, the General Terms and Conditions for IT contracts, for the purchase of ICT. We want to ensure that there is no additional costs that cannot be managed and which cannot be explained. The Minister states that the conditions have just been adjusted and that in the future, if necessary, the government intends to use the possibility of default and dissolution for misconduct and will not shy away from a course of action. Of course, we do not call for this to be taken very quickly, but it is important for the government to establish the image of an assertive customer. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to make it clear to the market that the government is a self-conscious client, who deals with his suppliers in a business and critical manner. In addition, the Minister will assess next year whether more escape options should be included in the ARBIT. I share the committee's conclusion that there is now no proper balance between the government and ICT companies, which means that there is too long an attempt to get projects off the ground and failing ICT companies receive a lot of money, due to failing government supervision as a client. The PvdA is very curious about how the minister will implement the Oosenbrug/Van der Linde motion and correct those unequal relations. Good ICT projects may be paid for, but for failures, the account should not be deposited unilaterally with the taxpayer. An exit should also be made more possible for this purpose. I'd like a response from the Minister. Whether binary or not, if the report of the temporary committee has taught me anything, then that is the hardest need to restore harmony between organization, man, process and technique. Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mrs Oosenbrug ends with texts like "hard need" and finally wants to get to work. That, however, is the conclusion of an argument which did not contain one of those elements. It has merely advocated half-hearted, buttery solutions to deal with this problem. I'm gonna try her one more time. The House of Representatives has set up a committee. It has spent two years working hard and researching a major problem, namely the annual billions wasted by failed ICT projects. The committee states that a strong, independent watchdog must be established, which can ensure that the brakes are applied in good time. The VVD Group and Mrs Oosenbrug of the PvdA Group say that we can organise some sort of club, in which some civil servants can sit who get some career prospects, and which we put under the leadership of another civil servant, who is going to say to politics again: don't do this. In the nearly five years I've been in the Lower House, this is almost the most surreal debate I've ever had. This is almost the most incredible story I've ever heard. Mrs Oosenbrug knows herself that this solution is simply not going to work. This isn't a real solution to a big problem, is it? This is just looking away, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u87	Was that your question, is this looking away? I don't think so. I've already indicated that the Chamber is in motion. We have received this report from the Temporary Committee. We're the chamber's move now. That report asks us to take a good look at that. We can take over everything without hesitation, but we can also think about it ourselves and have our own opinion on it. You do, because you have come up with another solution for BIT. That's okay; that's fine. I'll leave you to your value. Then I may make another choice and say that I am purely concerned with BIT. We'll give you boxes. We can do that as a chamber. We can enforce what we want by means of a motion. If there is a majority for that, then the cabinet has to act on it. I don't understand how you dare use such big words against me, like we're looking away and like I'm doing nothing here. I just don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u88	That has become clear to me. As far as I am concerned, this is not at all about leaving each other in its value, because I leave you entirely in your value. I am concerned that every year we waste billions on ICT projects. There has now been a committee that has come up with a solution to put an end to this. Then that idea is completely dismantled and stripped by the PvdA Group and the VVD Group. It's my expensive duty to make that a point. It is my expensive duty as a representative of the people to ensure that we do not continue to waste billions. In that respect, I am somewhat among the parties who say 'let it be done by the Prime Minister'. I can see that this is a difficult solution because of the small Ministry of General Affairs. The proposal of the VVD Group, the cabinet and the PvdA Group to include that BIT under an official is the other extreme. Then we are sure that we will continue to waste billions. If Mrs Oosenbrug wants that on her conscience, I will leave her in her esteem. I hope she will come to terms today, otherwise we will miss a great opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u89	I didn't hear any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u90	It has become clear to me that the Labour Party expects much from the BIT and that it wants to see this as an institution as independent as possible, resident among the Minister for Housing and National Service. In the Minister's letter, I missed two cases. The first is the BIT judgment. The BIT should not judge whether or not to proceed with projects. What does the Labour Party think about this? The second is the intermediate tests. In the case of projects that are already in progress and do not run as they should, the BIT could give an interim judgment. We could derive from that that we should stop. What is the view of the Labour Party on these two issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u91	That could be arranged by means of a motion. That's what I argued. I've asked a number of questions. I have a certain vision of how BIT should function. Of course, there could be an interim review. I also think that the BIT should ultimately decide which reports come to the Chamber. The BIT must be organized by us, in the way the Chamber looks at the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u92	This is certainly a very clear answer to my second question. My first question was whether or not BIT should be competent to give a judgment. This would be closer to the wishes of the Elias Committee. The BIT would then determine whether or not a project is started.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u93	We have also discussed this in the previous debate. It's also a bit of a rogue against parliamentary membership. Suppose the Chamber invents a project and the BIT considers that its implementation would be highly unwise and also says that the project should not continue, then, for my part, you remove the independence of the MP. I think D66 shares that feeling. I do think the judgment must weigh heavily. The question is, how do you force that? I think this is something to think about. In a democratic system, judgment remains a difficult story. Of course, we get a lot of reports. There is often a judgment in it, but the Chamber decides differently. Should the judgment apply only to the Cabinet or also to the Chamber? I don't think I should ask another question, but for my image, I'll ask it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u94	This should, of course, apply to all parties. Equal monks, equal hoods. Mrs Oosenbrug agrees with me that there must be a judgment. I read in the letter that no judgment is actually expected from BIT. It's just supposed to have some sort of advisory function. If there is a negative opinion, is it reasonable to assume that there should always be a response, at least by the cabinet, and that the pain points indicated by the BIT should always be examined further? Can we find each other in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u95	What I always advocate is "yes, unless," in the sense that you accept it unless you have good reasons not to. That would apply to me here, too. If there comes a judgment and you decide not to go along with it, explain why you have a different judgment as a cabinet. So that's that "yes, unless" and in this case it would be "no, unless."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u96	Although this is an interesting discussion, I think it ignores what ICT is. ICT is, of course, a means and not an end. It's about how you organize business. It would then be odd that if politics had a vision of how society should be adapted to a particular part, then the BIT would then say: we are not going to do that. Technique concerns the question of how to organize business. In the report of the Elias Committee, it is not only the question of where you hang the BIT but also the question of whether the BIT has perseverance power, so the sluice function. Does the PvdA Group believe that this sluice-up should be introduced or is it something of: in certain situations we can put it next to ourselves? I would like to know, because otherwise Mrs Van Oosenbrug's firm words are a little obligatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u97	Perhaps you missed it, but I have just made a whole speech on how the PvdA sees the BIT as a small, effective organisation without bureaucratic layer. So somewhere we speak a different language now. My group wants BIT to have a position in which it has the power of impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u98	But by saying that an organization must have the power of action, that organization does not yet have the power of action. So how does the PvdA Group plan to organise that? Is it a staff of the Ministry of Housing and National Service where people have to send documents to the Chamber on the basis of an institutional decision and to be listened to? Or is it such a "Van Gend & Loos" thing, in the sense of an opinion that is taken but never mentioned again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u99	I am a little disappointed that you are making a caricature of this whole debate. We've all talked here about BIT being incredibly important. However, it is now put away on the basis of a few small words and remarks in the vein that it would not have teeth, as something that is rigged but which still doesn't work out. In fact, it is already said that you have no faith in it. I don't understand. I want to rig this BIT with perseverance, perseverance, et cetera. We can organise this as a Chamber if we can reach consensus on this. Then we make a splendid motion, which is then passed by majority, and then we are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u100	I'd like nice weather, but I can't force it here either, maybe in your head, but not really if you look out the window. I would like to know from the PvdA when that BIT has that force of force and perseverance which it apparently considers so important but which it has not yet been able to explain. Maybe it's something for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u101	We don't deal with the weather as a room, but we do deal with the layout of the BIT. We have a certain vision of what the BIT should look like, what it's going to do and what it's going to mean. That's what we're debating, isn't it? We have the first term now. We've all shown what we think is important about BIT. Apparently, you haven't heard my contribution to what I think is important about BIT. I am very sorry about that, but I am ready to repeat my speech over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-3.u102	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch. Then we start with the arrangement of work which I warn you will not last very long. Then we will listen to the Minister's answer in the first term.
