ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Minister for Housing and the National Service, who helped us last week by saying that he wanted to be here today for the debate. The debate is about the news that more and more urgent housing seekers are getting priority. Eight speakers have spoken for this debate. There is a speaking time of four minutes per person. As usual, we try to do the interruptions in two: a question and a possible follow-up question. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP, who has also requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. First, our social housing was privatised. We got paid back managers who drive around Maserati's and live in villas in distant, warm abroad. Then the government handed over our social housing to the technocrats in Brussels. Back then, Minister of Finance Wouter Bos received his budget, but social housing was only intended for those with the lowest incomes. Mr Rutte and Mr Wilders then came to the wheel. There was a rent increase as a gift for the tenants, the label "steefwoning" made its entrance and corporations were allowed to pay the villa subsidy. And now there is the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, which completely undresss the tenants, but also completely undresses them by saddled with a rent explosion and a rent tax of 1.5 billion. The result is long waiting lists. There are long, long waiting lists for social housing, according to our own call rounds along municipalities and corporations. There are great concerns about the future, about the availability of sufficient housing. And there are more and more groups of people who need urgent housing because of government policy. Our elderly, disabled, ex-refugees, abused women and children; they all have to compete for scarce homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	I'm an economist. Can Mrs. Karabulut explain to me how waiting lists get longer when you throw up the rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	Rentals are increasing, social housing is being liberalised and then demand for cheaper housing increases. So those waiting lists are growing and the number of homes is shrinking. That's not so complicated for an economist. Or even for an economist!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	So Mrs Karabulut agrees with me that corporations should focus on the cheapest housing? We share that insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	Yes. The fact is that the VVD makes that impossible with the tenant tax. So they all have to compete for scarce homes. The waiting lists are growing and housing is on its way while everyone is entitled to an affordable home. As if that weren't enough, existing homes are sold to capitalists who want to mint from homes that should be for tenants and house seekers. Does the Minister share my view that it is inappropriate to refer unilaterally to municipalities and corporations when the cabinet is the main responsible for the new housing shortage? Is the Minister prepared to exempt municipalities and corporations wishing to build to solve the housing shortage from the landlord's tax, commonly referred to as the Blok tax? Is the Minister prepared to put a stop to the liberalisation and sale of social housing in municipalities where there is a shortage of housing? I would like to make a very specific comment on the housing of former asylum seekers, of people who have come here as refugees and who now have a residence permit, the so-called status holders. Is the Minister also willing to look together with municipalities for other, more direct and unorthodox ways of housing? This can be done, for example, by not always sticking to the largest municipalities that absorb the numbers and looking at where this accommodation is available. Suppose, in this case, for example, in the municipality of A.................................................................................................. Is such an approach not clever and what does the Minister do about it? The Minister writes to us that a different key has been sought before, but that it has not been possible. Why not? What is the status of the administrative consultation to which the Minister refers in his letter? Can the Minister explain to us how despite all his fine words there is a new housing shortage in the Netherlands? Housing shouldn't be like this anymore. It is high time to stop it, restore social housing and return it to the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	The SP is, of course, a strong supporter of opening up borders and of a very generous asylum policy with a huge effect as a result. The Netherlands is high on the lists when it comes to numbers of refugees. These refugees are given priority over the housing market once they have achieved their status. So an asylum seeker goes before someone who has been waiting for a social housing for eight years. Does the SP think that this priority of asylum seekers should be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yes. I can be brief about that. Not only ex-asylum seekers, licence holders, have this status of urgency, but also women and children who come from my homes, or older people who have to live in this cabinet for a longer period of time at all costs. I am pleased that this urgency status exists for those groups, for which there is currently no alternative. But I would add that I find it perverse and unacceptable that competition is organised in this way by creating scarcity. May I remind the PVV spokesperson that the PVV is the founder of this policy, namely through the introduction of extreme rent increases and of the landlord's tax, which has only increased the housing shortage in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	The latter is, of course, nonsense, because we want to close the borders; in this way you create enormous space in the social housing sector, which is very important for a group of people. Waiting lists are running up. In The Hague, it is estimated that one in five social housing units will be given to an ex-asylum seeker. The SP is clear, he thinks it should stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	I don't want to be in this mess. The SP is for a humane asylum and refugee policy. This means that you must, in the first instance, take care of the region. I'm afraid that's not always possible. Unfortunately, we have not yet stopped the wars either. So when people have come here, and when they have passed the strict criteria and then got a permit, you must also house them. I wouldn't look away when my neighbor's house is on fire. Nor should I look away when a terrible natural disaster occurs in our neighbours in Belgium and we have to deal with people. That is indeed an attitude. I'm not an aso. That's not us at the SP. So in that sense, I say yes to Mr Madlener. But what we do want to do is make sure that there are enough homes so that anyone who is entitled to a home can also get it. It is a pity that the PVV has helped to demolish social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Europe must set boundaries. Why do refugees have to travel all the way to Europe to find a safe haven? The situation is still relatively manageable, but if the refugees really come with hundreds of thousands at the same time, it will have a very disruptive effect on our society. These are three sentences from the migration note published by my VVD colleague, Azmani, in March. We are less than six months ahead and this dramatic scenario is now taking place. Germany is expecting 800,000 asylum seekers this year. The Netherlands can get 100,000 or 200,000 or more. Who knows, let's say it. These are part of the victims of war that we cannot and do not want to send back, and part of the people who make a conscious choice, a conscious choice for the Netherlands, with the best health care in the world, fine neighbourhoods to live in and a financial safety net for everyone who does not work. A conscious choice for which vulnerable people risk their lives in crummy boats on the Mediterranean. It's a human tragedy. We're maintaining a criminal system of human trafficking. We give people hope that we can't live up to. We are losing support for a fair asylum policy. But how do I explain to a novice police officer in Haarlem that he can't get a home for seven years, because a status holder without any economic connection to the city has priority? Our welfare state does not go hand in hand with open external borders. If we do not discuss this, there will be complete chaos and then we will blow up the welfare state, including the social housing for which liberals have always fought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	I was actually curious about the answer. How does Mr Van der Linde explain to that police officer in Haarlem that there is such a huge housing shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	This goes seamlessly into the rest of my speech. I can read that in response to the interruption. There are currently 12,500 status holders waiting for a home. So we must act quickly and practically now. I would ask the Minister to respond to a number of concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	Is this the answer, two pages long? I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	Here's my answer. That goes on for two more pages. I ask the Minister to respond to three specific points. First of all... Randstadpolitics isn't gonna work here. Municipalities can oversee what's going on with them and what's going on with people. We must leave the direction of this great problem with the municipalities. That also means that we are not going to adjust the key from above. Second. Social housing must be spared. At present, virtually all status holders are identified as urgent and placed with a corporation as a priority. The system's gonna be clogged. Not every status holder needs a home urgently. We need to find alternatives outside of social housing. Detached offices, emergency homes, houses that would otherwise be demolished. It doesn't have to be palaces if you can live there safely and dry. Municipalities must therefore be given the freedom to work quickly and without many rules. We may therefore have to amend the Building Decision or design a special arrangement. Third. Municipalities that do not want or can not carry out their tasks can transfer their tasks to another municipality through the Interprovincial Consultation. That's what they're paying for. On the other hand, a municipality in a sparsely populated area may be interested in a group of newcomers, so as to keep the school, library or supermarket open. Of course, this can be done on paper, but it hardly happens. Can the Minister indicate what we need to do to make this possible? I cannot explain that hundreds of status holders are housed in Amsterdam without an economic bond, while in Heerlen hundreds of rental homes are empty and demolished. Those were the three specific points. Mr President, I see 1.40 here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	That's not entirely true. It's been four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	I am very sorry that the VVD spokesperson in his reply to that police officer does not honestly admit that it is the VVD who calls this policeman a crooked citizen, wants to chase out his social housing and then points to that ex-refugee. Indeed, 6% of the housing released goes there according to the Minister's figures. However, Mr Van der Linde forgets to say that it is the VVD which deprives housing corporations of their investment space and that they can build affordable housing. In view of all these proposals, will the VVD make it possible for municipalities and corporations to have that financial space? Otherwise, as is often the case with the VVD, the cop will be fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	We have 2.2 million social housing in the Netherlands. That's one in three houses. In Amsterdam, which you just mentioned, Mrs Karabulut, we are talking about 60% of the total stock. How many more social rentals do you want to add? If we are now going to build for this group and there will be 300,000 people coming to the Netherlands, will we also build for that? We can't afford that. That is why I urge alternatives: portakabins, offices and re-destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	I'm willing to look for those alternatives, especially for the shorter term. But then we must also free up the financial resources for this. I don't see you doing that. The group entitled to a social housing unit is growing in the future, while the social housing stock is shrinking. The European Commission puts the border at €34.000. That is not always fair, but well, that limit is fixed on that. This group concerns 40%, but the social housing stock is shrinking to 30%. So there is a huge shortage; hence also the waiting list. What the VVD is doing is very unfair, but also very harsh, namely saying: people you need to get out of your home. We increase the rents and then private parties, individuals, are allowed to rent with even higher, even more priceless rents. That's how you scare the cop away. This way you make neighborhoods one-sided and thus you actually destroy social housing, which solved so many problems for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mrs Karabulut is absolutely right. The VVD does indeed believe that we should tackle crooked housing. We do have a slightly different explanation for that. You were just talking about Amsterdam, with 60% social housing. I'm very curious how many crooked people we have there. The teacher and the police officer aren't going to be dealt with there. Then we'll do something wrong, won't we? Then I'm not even talking about the other group of urgents. We also have 27 000 homeless people in the Netherlands. They are now housed for an average of €18,000 per person per year at institutions such as the Salvation Army, which should be a core task of social housing. They're not even getting in. That is what social housing should be used for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	We heard the VVD just holding a relatively solid story. We cannot explain to the police officer and to the teacher how it is that they have to wait much longer for a home than asylum seekers. Next, the VVD says that it will give priority to helping asylum seekers with vacant houses, office buildings, etc. What is it now? Do you or do you not give asylum seekers priority over regular housing seekers when finding accommodation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	I have just said that it is not necessary to designate each beneficiary as urgent. I would very much like a response from the Minister. I also said that I wanted to relieve the burden on the social housing system. I want these people to be housed in a different way, perhaps more sober. That is important, because the teacher and the proverbial policeman are on the waiting list for seven years, but we also have to serve them. We can't escape that. I can't explain that. That's what we're doing. So we are looking for alternatives. I want to go a long way in that. This has to do with building rules-free and transforming offices. That's an agenda the VVD's had for a long time. We can use it very well for this. There are a lot of offices left empty. Let's use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	If the VVD wants to tackle the problem in a structural way, it must do something about the asylum influx. But that may go a little too far in this debate. Outside, of course, there are a lot of regular house seekers who say: place me temporarily in an office building or in an empty storehouse. But you're choosing asylum seekers again. That doesn't exactly match the so-called solid story you're putting up in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	This story stands or falls with a good refugee policy. That is why I referred in the beginning to the Migration Note of my colleague Azmani. Of course, if we don't settle it in front, we'll be left with the problems. As far as your other point is concerned, people are completely free to move into an office building, but then they have to do so through empty stand management. However, there are still far too many rules. We have been hoping for this for two years and probably for longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	It is precisely the VVD Secretary of State who has called for courage and priority to be given to housing asylum seekers. Can the VVD spokesperson go into that and hopefully distance himself from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'm not practicing it. The Secretary of State has 12,500 people who need to be accommodated. Of course, he's trying everything he can to make that happen, just like I'm saying right now, we need to look at all the alternatives: portakabins, vacant offices, properties for sale, make it up. What do you want with 12,500 people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u27	I hope that the VVD understands that it has a tremendous pull-out effect if you keep the boundaries open and at the same time apply a generous allocation policy. The Netherlands is high on the list of smugglers, thanks to VVD policy. And then there's a VVD Secretary of State who calls for courage to quickly give all those people a nice home, while the cops and the teachers don't touch a house anymore. That is, of course, unacceptable. I can't hear the VVD pull away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u28	There is only one serious political party that has written a note on how to arrange it differently, in the case of the influx, namely the VVD. I haven't seen any serious proposal of yours, except rabbi right-wing ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u29	You can conclude your speech, Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u30	I am actually at the end of my speech, Mr President. I have one more comment. We're waiting for a bill on temporary rent. We hope this will come soon, because we need to think structuralally about living crookedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. Europe is flooded with fortune seekers from the Middle East and Africa. Hordes of migrants storm border posts and take over entire trains. Our borders are wide open. The Netherlands is one of the most popular destinations, because here they get benefits, debit cards and free rentals. Every day thousands of "Al-Ahkbar" calling migrants come to the Netherlands and Germany. Angela Merkel and her lapdog Mark Rutte's policies provide record immigration rates and abuses. The Netherlands is a magnet for asylum seekers, just like Germany. The cabinet has only one priority: to keep the borders wide open. The cabinet calls for courage to massively house asylum seekers against the will of the people. Not in their own region, not in their country of origin. No, in our overcrowded country, in our scarce rental homes. The cabinet has let Dutch people who have been on the waiting list for years go to hell. Asylum seekers first. On arrival in the Netherlands, asylum seekers send whatsapp messages to the country of origin. After all, most asylum seekers seem to have smartphones at their disposal. The smugglers make lists of favorite destinations. The Netherlands is prominent on it. "Come to Holland, here you get a free house, a debit card and a fridge. Brother, sister, jihadist, extremist, come to the Islamic Netherlands. Halal meat in every shop and mosques by the flesh." Thanks to this cabinet, the immigration records from the time before Pim Fortuyn are broken again. Affordable rentals are almost impossible to get if you're not an asylum seeker. In Delft, even a recurring jihadist has been given priority over a home. The municipality of Delft, where there is hardly a house to get, writes in 2013 that the returning jihadist should get work, housing and debt restructuring. Can the Minister promise that he will guarantee that no Syrian fighter or jihadist will take precedence over the housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u32	I have two questions that I will ask neatly one by one. Suppose your family was murdered on a mountain, you belong to the Jezidis, your daughter was kidnapped by ISIS, and you can only fear what happens to her in your worst nightmares. You decide to run. Are these people lucky seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u33	It's, of course, heartbreaking, these kinds of examples. But the great masses are really people who are brought here by smugglers. Those are people arriving in Hungary and saying: we do not want to go to Hungary but to Germany or the Netherlands, because homes, refrigerators and debit cards are available there. We're talking about the large stream of people here, not the single pathetic asylum seeker. After all, if it were for those people, we would not have had this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u34	At least I'm starting to see some humanity. Even Mr Madlener may be willing to consider admitting those people. Suppose you spent four or five years in a refugee camp in Jordan or Syria, with your children. You've been hoping for four or five years that you could go back to the village where you grew up and where you saw a future for your children. After four or five years, you look at your kids and you think this isn't gonna happen, I can't leave my kids here for another ten years, I gotta move on. Are these people lucky seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u35	Of course we can understand why people want to go to the Netherlands. If I lived in Syria, I might also think: I'm going to the Netherlands. However, the Netherlands cannot handle all these millions of people. The Netherlands is one of the busiest countries in the world. The Netherlands has problems on the housing market. The Netherlands has had a huge immigration and integration problem. We hope that will finally come to an end. And what does the PvdA do? That party has learned nothing from the past and is opening the borders wide. And yes, there are millions of refugees in the country. Unfortunately, this has a lot to do with the ideology called Islam. The PvdA is always very nice for that. Let the Arab world catch refugees, too. They barely do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr Madlener just said that these are individuals. What groups of people does he think it's about? Which groups of people from which countries are currently number one in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u37	We all know where the people come from. However, Mr Monasch gave an example of a jezidi girl sitting on a mountain. That's some of them. Most of the people you see coming on boats, they really come through human smugglers. Of course they're looking for happiness and wealth. I understand that, but the Netherlands simply cannot accommodate these people. It would therefore be better to keep the people there, close the borders and ensure that the Arab world takes responsibility, because there are hardly any immigrants in Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Madlener has a colleague. That is Mr Fritsma, and he is well aware of the countries from which the influx is currently coming. That's from Syria and Iraq. Those are the jezidis, and from Eritrea, where a dictator is brutal. Those people aren't lucky seekers. They are getting into these boats because Europe is keeping the borders closed and they are afraid to invite these people through the refugee organisation. It would be a good thing and it would be a good thing for Mr Madlener if he had these figures in a row, because I think and hope that he would think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u39	On the contrary. We really see images of masses of "Allah akbar" crying immigrants. Those aren't Jezidis, because they don't call out "Allah akbar." It would be good if Mr Voordewind took off his blinders. Of course there are very sad cases, but most of the people really are lucky seekers who call out "Allah Akbar" and refuse to stay in Hungary massively, because they prefer to come to the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u40	I realize that it is a very complicated issue, but as a human being I have a lot of problems with the way Mr Madlener simplifies everything and actually uses the problems of war and refugees to turn these people, ex-asylum seekers or people with a different background, and original Dutch people against each other. I don't think this is necessary. 1% of refugees are taken care of in Europe. And yes, we need to keep looking at the problems that this poses, for example in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u41	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u42	At the moment, 6% of the freed-up social housing indeed goes to the status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u43	What is your question, Mrs Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u44	I come to my question. I agree that we should look at new solutions if that group were to become larger. However, my question to Mr Madlener is as follows. Hasn't his party contributed to this housing shortage and long waiting lists? 94% of the homes don't go to ex-asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u45	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Madlener's party introduced the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u47	Your question is clear, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u48	We believe that the hardworking Dutchman deserves an affordable home. That is why we have always been against the rent increases. If the PVV had been able to run its election program, the rents would have been a lot lower for everyone. Now we are dealing with the open borders policy of the SP. Mrs Karabulut's party supports the cabinet on that point. She says leave those boundaries open. We cannot, however, house these people. I'm from Rotterdam. There have been huge problems with mass immigration for decades. We all see the consequences of that. The SP doesn't seem to have learned anything from that. The Netherlands is not the country that can accommodate hundreds of thousands of immigrants from the Middle East. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u49	You may ask a short question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u50	I'm a host worker's child. I am the first to acknowledge that migration is a problem and that we need to solve it. So Mr Madlener should not say that I deny the problems. But you lie and cheat. You certainly voted in favour of the rent increases. You also voted for the landlord tax when you tolerated Rutte I. As a result, there are now huge social housing shortages. You're responsible for that. That's the main cause, not the refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u51	That's just not true. The rent increases only came about after Rutte I. That wasn't with the PVV's support. Just look at our texts and our voting behaviour. We are against the rent increases and for keeping the affordable homes available for people who deserve it and have been on a waiting list for years. But let's face it, it's the huge influx of refugees that's causing problems right now. That is what this debate is about. That's where the SP is failing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u52	I have to say that the debate has a very strong tendency to deal with asylum policy rather than the problems in the housing market. I would like to hear from Mr Madlener what solution he has to deal with the acute problems. The people are here. I think we're all in favour of people having an adequate roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u53	That's a fair question. I will be tabling a motion later to end the priority of asylum seekers in the housing market. I hope the CDA will support that proposal. I believe that the parties to the government have already made sounds in this direction that they must stop priority. I hope that this way we can end the problem of the availability of social housing. Let us not close our eyes to the cause of the problems: it has everything to do with the open borders in Europe, which will see millions of people crossing borders. We should not close our eyes to this, because that is where the problems lie. In The Hague it is now warned that 20% of the affordable rentals will soon be allocated to ex-asylum seekers. The waiting period in The Hague has risen to four to five years. The PVV in The Hague has already received hundreds of complaints from the people of The Hague that this can no longer be done. So it is in many cities and villages, and so it will be in more and more towns and villages. The Refugee Work institution, funded with taxpayers' money, calls for an extra tough approach to be taken by crooked citizens to make room for asylum seekers. So hardworking Dutch people who earn a little too much to live in an affordable rental house are driven out of their homes by additional rent increases to give that same house for an apple and an egg to a lucky seeker. That is a disgrace! I would like to know from the Minister whether it is true that asylum seekers sometimes pay lower initial rents than regular house seekers for the same type of accommodation. That's what's being said all over the place. I want to know from the Minister if this is true. The Minister claimed in January that 15,000 homes will be sent to asylum seekers this year, but the influx of asylum seekers is increasing, up to 1,700 asylum seekers in a week. What's the status? Do asylum seekers who have to leave again lose their lease if they refuse to leave? We all know how it goes. Asylum seekers come here and they don't leave. Even if they have to leave, they refuse to leave and may stay in a rental house. Of course, I call on the Minister to immediately end the priority policy for asylum seekers in the housing market and close the borders. Since the 1980s, the Netherlands has had unprecedented problems with non-Western immigrants. We are now once again faced with an unprecedented wave of non-Western immigrants because of totally wrong cabinet policy and a huge draining effect that it has. Have we really learned nothing from the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. "Deeply concerned with the fate of all the peoples who have been dragged into war, the Netherlands bears the extraordinary burden imposed upon it, willingly and with open arms receives all the unfortunate who seek refuge within its borders." These were the words of Queen Wilhelmina, pronounced during the Throne speech of 1914. In that year, the Netherlands received an incredible number of 1 million refugees, mostly from Belgium. In 2015, the Netherlands is once again confronted with a flow of refugees. The refugees must of course live somewhere and this demand for adequate housing also, of course, creates the necessary tension in the social housing market. We fully recognise that. This issue requires an adequate approach. Status holders are entitled to a residence, but that is not only true for these refugees. Many people without an urgency statement have been waiting for a home for years. It is quite understandable that they are frustrated by the growing number of urgent housing seekers. The pressure must therefore come from the boiler and we must look for creative solutions that do justice to both groups of house seekers. The Secretary of State for Security and Justice writes in the Volkskrant that he is looking for tough mayors. Fine, but this issue also requires a tough cabinet, a tough society and tough citizens. The Christian Union would therefore like the Cabinet to examine the possibilities of private reception of status holders, i.e. host families. Or, as you wish, Airbnb for a refugee. I often hear from citizens: I would like to do this, but there are so many limitations. They ask if they are cut off on their benefit, etc. These questions arise not only in the Netherlands, but also in Germany and now also in Iceland. In Germany this is now being done, but the Netherlands also encouraged private care in the 1990s when many ex-Yugoslavs came this way. Of course, there are hooks and eyes on this and of course, Refugees Work also ran into borders at that time. However, solutions can be found for this by, for example, providing good screening, matching, guidance, back-up, etc. Is the cabinet prepared to come together with RefugeeWork, the Association of Dutch Municipalities and other partners in the field to a pilot in which the private reception of status holders is made possible? I am thinking, for example, of financial compensation or tax advantages. On behalf of the Christian Union, I make a second proposal, namely the conversion of office buildings. That possibility has been mentioned here before. Empty office buildings can be used for permanent or temporary accommodation. How will the Minister encourage such solutions, for example by laying down fewer rules? What is the Minister's position on proposals to combine these types of vacant buildings with, for example, co-housing, simple homes with some common facilities? Such a form of housing can contribute to increasing the participation and self-reliance of status holders and can also combat loneliness. My group hopes that the cabinet will also show courage, be tough and dare to step outside the beaten track. Of course we need to build more, but we also hope for concrete proposals such as Airbnb for a refugee and the conversion of vacant offices. For example, the social housing market can get a little more air and housing seekers can be helped to a new home more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u55	These are sympathetic proposals, but the question is how tough the Christian Union is. After all, the Christian Union has also signed the landlord's tax, which now leaves municipalities and corporations little room for manoeuvre. Is the Christian Union, with its proposals for, for example, the conversion of office spaces, container homes or ordinary social housing, prepared to say: okay, then you get exemption so that you can invest and so that we can solve the housing shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u56	When the SP comes with motions, my group will take a serious look at them. The SP knows that we have urged the cabinet to reduce the landlord's tax. That's what happened. So if the SP proposes additional measures in the form of motions, we will certainly look into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u57	I know that, because you are a serious man, and I know the Christian Union as a serious group that is always serious about proposals. However, I would like to have a substantive reaction. Does Mr Voordewind intend to submit this proposal positively to his group, because this has not been done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u58	I will, of course, discuss this within my group, including the spokesman. As Mrs Karabulut knows, I am an asylum spokesperson, and I am not about that myself. Again, we will look seriously at the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u60	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. The housing shortage in the Netherlands is growing and this is mainly the fault of government policy. Thus, the cabinet increases the landlord's tax. This increase in charges leads to major problems in the housing market. Corporates have hardly any room to rebuild. The main problem, of course, is the continued influx of asylum. Over 30,000 asylum seekers came in last year. Now about 1,700 are added every week. These numbers are far beyond the absorption capacity of our society. We see this, among other things, in the growing housing shortage. Asylum seekers have legal priority over regular house seekers in obtaining a social home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u62	Since my colleague is very good at the figures, I would like to ask him a question. He says corporations can barely build homes. How many homes did corporations build last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u63	If my colleague is so good at figures, of course he does not have to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr Van Klaveren says here that corporations hardly have room to build. He knows exactly how many asylum seekers are coming, how many are leaving, what the influx is and you name it. He says there's hardly any room to build. That statement will be based on something. My question to him is therefore: if they have hardly built houses, how many homes did they build last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u65	If my colleague waits neatly, I'll come up with that. However, that was my reaction at first; if Mr Monasch is right in the figures, he does not have to ask this question. I'll say this with a wink, but I'll be right there. Humor is not the strongest side of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr President, I can therefore count on my colleague to mention a specific number in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u67	That's what he just said. Proceed, Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you. The last group, the regular house seekers, has been on the waiting list for ten years. That number is increasing. Koepel organisatie Aedes has said that in the first half of this year municipalities had to house as many as 14,000 asylum seekers. The second half of the year was set at 14,900 plus a further 5 000. Furthermore, Aedes states that in the coming year, even 10% of the social housing released will be allocated to asylum seekers. The situation is untenable. Once again, as VVD and the Labour Party want to benefit this group, by putting up a separate living space while regular house seekers have to stay on a waiting list for years, I do not think it is the solution. The mass influx of asylum should be reduced and the preferential treatment of asylum seekers should cease as soon as possible. My group is tabling a legislative proposal on this matter this week. We should put asylum seekers on regular waiting lists. They are already housed in the shelter and for this group new accommodation is not necessarily more necessary than for other people seeking accommodation. I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. With this I conclude my first term. I assume that the spokesman for the Labour Party will rise to ask his question again, and that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u69	I've been waiting neatly. I am still curious to see what Mr Van Klaveren's statement is based on. I'm very curious how many homes the corporations have built. If he prefers to mention the number in 2013 or in 2014, he should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u70	I have just spoken about the housing of asylum seekers, which is a deficit of 5,000. In percentage terms, the deficit is 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u71	My colleague's argument was that the corporations hardly build houses. My question is how many homes the corporations built in 2013 and 2014. So there's no answer to that. Mr Van Klaveren bases his position on the air vacuum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u72	No, not at all. I just indicated there's a shortage. That deficit is 10%. I think that's very concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u74	No, Mr President, things are being said here by my colleague, but he cannot even support his statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Monasch, you have now twice the opportunity to ask that question three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u76	I'd be happy to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u77	I just specifically indicated that these figures are from the umbrella organisation Aedes, not unknown to you, and that the deficit is 10%. That's a big deal. It means that 10% too few homes are being built to house all these people. Those are regular people and asylum seekers. And the asylum seekers are given concrete figures: 5,300. I hope you're happy now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. The effects of this cabinet policy are becoming painfully apparent. Starry rules and too small investment space through the landlord's tax on corporations ensure that too little investment is made and built for the target groups. The accessibility of a rental house has become very difficult. The waiting period has now risen to an average of seven years. The growing allocation of housing to residents has only increased the problem. Yesterday the CDA outlined a larger and broader picture of the basis of this problem; that was the CDA story that appeared yesterday on nu.nl in an interview with our group chairman. My input should be seen as part of that larger story about refugees and security. At the heart of the debate is the question of what the government is doing about the problem of displacement among residential residents. As far as the CDA is concerned, the playing field is clear. In the first instance, the municipality stands at the bar for urgent categories on the rental market, in accordance with the Housing Act. Outside these categories, and outside all lists of people seeking housing, municipalities must provide accommodation to residents. It is a task of municipalities to deal with it responsibly, but it is a fact that the construction of social housing has been put under considerable pressure by this government policy. In our opinion, the government has its own responsibility to provide housing, by creating the right frameworks for it. The problem is so erratic and versatile that a simple solution is not available. The CDA has already argued in several counter-budgets for a reduction in the landlord's tax, so that more investment space would be created. Unfortunately, the coalition parties didn't agree with that. Sitting still is not an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u79	I still have the CDA's counter-budget in my head. The total amount of the landlord's levy, including the private landlords, for this cabinet period is 1.7 billion. We're not running away from that. Can you give me the amount of the landlord's tax in the CDA's counter-budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u80	250 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u81	250 million less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u83	So you say that 1.5 billion is what we have in our books. The cabinet has 1.7 billion, the CDA has 1.5 billion. So most of that landlord's tax is on you, except for 200 million. That's right, isn't it? This is just for the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr Monasch, I understand that the facts are very painful for the policies you have set out as coalition parties, but I can tell you that the CDA has twice estimated a substantial amount in a counter-budget to remove the pressure on corporate investment programmes. You may now fall into numerical discussions, but I do not really intend to do so. The amount we had raised was 250 million. That would be a relief for the level of investment of the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Monasch, this is the last time. For the third time, I give you the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u86	Yes, but the colleagues here are all saying things that are not based on figures. And even though we do not do it in all kinds of TV debates, here in this room it might be useful to try to do it with facts. The cabinet has committed 1.7 billion to the landlord's tax, the CDA has committed 1.5 billion to the landlord's tax. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u87	The CDA booked 250 million less than the cabinet. I'm just gonna get back to my point. Unfortunately, our proposal was not accepted by the coalition parties. At least sitting still isn't an option. The minister will have to deal with the cabinet. The CDA Group believes that the following measures could alleviate the situation. There is much more to use of the front door parts. Now the COA assumes a standard of 0.51 residence per resident. There are many more residential groups that can be created, with groups of residents moving into one house. The standard of 0.51 per status holder should be considerably reduced. As far as we're concerned, it can go directly to 0.3. Their impact on the front door control should be further assessed. Secondly, more intermediate solutions must be sought. This can be thought of as exchange-like solutions, as we know from urban renewal. However, the starting point for the swap house must be that, after allocation, residents should simply register as a permanent home seeker and that the integration process begins afterwards. People with the status or status of displaced persons proposed by the CDA temporary status could remain in the swap house until they return to the country of origin. Minister Blok can set a good example here by rescreening all the state real estate on whether it is appropriate to serve as a temporary interim solution. The question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to do so. A third point is that, of course, the problems have not been solved with additional funds for the municipalities. Financial consequences will have to be covered and cannot be placed on the board of the municipalities. The amount that the municipalities have supported in a report from the VNG is very clear. In 2015, it amounts to 10 million. That's going to go down to 6 million in 2019. If the political will exists, we believe that a solution can also be found to relieve the burden on the municipalities. The fourth point is that private landlords could contribute more to solving the problem. Certainly from the large private landlords can be asked to play a role in this. Will the Minister investigate how their involvement can be increased? Finally, I would like to mention a fifth point. The problem of displacement in the allocation of housing could be explicitly seen as a task field of the platform Again Home. Grant money is therefore paid for this problem. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Depending on the answer given in the first period, my group will table one or more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u88	We'll wait and see. This is some kind of cliff hanger. I give the floor to Mr Koolmees of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr. Chairman. This is my maiden speech, says Mr Monasch. That's right. The people who regularly follow a debate of the Committee for Housing and Rijksdienst see a new face today. Since yesterday I have been speaking on behalf of the D66 Group and I hope that the debates will be as pleasant as in the other committee I am taking part in, the Finance Committee. When I look around me like that, I have every confidence in it. For D66 it is important that anyone who needs a house can find it quickly and affordable. Unfortunately, due to the years of neglect of the housing market, this is not the case. There are too many crooked people. There are people living in social housing that aren't supposed to live there. A property for sale is not payable for many people and there are hardly any homes in the free rental sector. The result is that there have been long waiting lists for years. So it is not the last two years, but the last ten to fifteen years. Measures have been taken to address this. The housing sector is being tackled, the rental market is being liberalised and mortgage interest rates are being reduced. However, this takes too long to solve the problems in the short term. The increase in the number of urgent housing seekers is partly due to the increase in the number of refugees. Those are not lucky seekers, but people who are allowed to stay in the Netherlands because they are at risk. My group wants these people to be able to live humanely and participate quickly in society in the Netherlands. We want them to be able to find a home and a job or get an education. The platform Again Home is working on a governance agreement with the municipalities. This is urgently needed, because the number of refugees is growing faster than the number of people who get a home. The danger is that the delay will occur. I would like to hear from the Minister how the process of this governance agreement is progressing and when it will be concluded. I am surprised, however, that these problems have arisen. I'm going back to May last year. Then Secretary of State Teeven, the then Secretary of State for Asylum, warned that up to 65,000 asylum seekers could come from Eritrea. 65,000! At the end of the day, luckily, there were a lot less. This is often the case with VVD statements. However, why weren't all sails added last year to arrange living space? Wouldn't that have been better? I also like to get a reaction to this. Some municipalities ask for the housing stock to be taken into account when allocating the number of asylum seekers. Mrs Karabulut also said something about this in her speech. It is not intended that there are only families in places with many apartments and that there are many single people in a place where there are just one-family homes. Can this solution be included in the administrative agreement? What does the Minister think of this proposal? I also like to get a reaction to this. Finally. Sometimes there's a place available, but people aren't out of procedure yet. They're not allowed in that house. I wonder if this could be a little more flexible, for example by allowing the COA to pay the rent instead of a place in an asylum-seekers' centre. A place in an asylum seekers' centre costs €20,000 per year. There are also savings to be made. As spokesman for Finance, of course, I welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u90	The reason for the current situation is the housing of licence holders, but this is only 6% of the housing released. It's also about the elderly, women coming out of a stay-of-my-living home, children and so on. It is also a result of government policy. Apart from the suggestions you make, I wonder what your solutions are for the growing waiting lists. The landlord's tax would be a solution. In addition, the flow would be triggered. However, we can already see that it is a political failure. What are your alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u91	I have made it very clear that we have implemented the policy, and indeed it will take more than one or two years for the problem to be resolved. After all, it is a problem that has existed in the Dutch housing market for decades. Of course, the waiting lists aren't from the last two years, we've had them for years. The point is that there really needs to be more annexation and there needs to be more private landlords. I already see a lot of pension funds, a lot of insurers, now investing in new homes like this. As a result, there is an alternative for those who have a high income and now occupy a social housing. They can flow through. It will be an alternative to buying to rent a private property. This increases the offer of social housing and shortens the waiting lists. I'm an economist, so I think that's how it works with supply and demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u92	As an economist, Mr Koolmees should also know that most of the Dutch do not have the income that Mr Koolmees and I have. The houses must therefore also be affordable. We see that some social housing is already becoming more expensive than private homes. Private rentals are already hugely high, while homes are of poor quality and waiting lists are growing. Does he agree with me that the policy has so far failed and that, for example, municipalities that want to work on solving the waiting lists should grant exemptions from the landlord's tax so that there will be investment space?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u93	I disagree with Mrs Karabulut. By the way, we did some of this in Rotterdam-Zuid; I'm just new here as a spokesperson, but I take some with me from time to time. The point is that 75% of the rental homes in the Netherlands are social housing. For years too little has been built. For years there has also been no incentive for the market sector to build private apartments, because they were too cheap. By adjusting this now, by making sure that there are real alternatives for people with a good income, they can move on to private rental homes. This really makes social housing available to people with a small scholarship, for which the social housing stock is intended. This is how you ensure that the flow and also ensure that the pension funds are rebuilt and that there really is a real alternative. If you had stuck to the old policy, which Mrs Karabulut apparently wants, the waiting lists in cities like Amsterdam, Arnhem and Rotterdam would only have gotten longer. That's putting your head in the sand for real problems we've been seeing in the housing market for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u94	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u95	Please continue with your speech, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u96	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u97	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u98	Good morning, Mr. President. It's nice to meet you again after the recess. This is a heartfelt collective greeting, while my speaking time is already running. Soon I will of course talk about the case myself, but, although I don't know if I would have passed the math test if I were in high school now, it is good to mention some figures once in a while to see where the real problem is around the waiting lists. Before this cabinet or the previous cabinet started, I could perhaps put a cabinet before it.The waiting lists were in the Netherlands, especially in the scarce areas, seven, eight, nine years. In small municipalities they are still three years old. There was no landlord tax. It went well in the Netherlands and the waiting lists remained and remained. How is that possible? I'll tell you even more. In 2004, the corporations borrowed around 45 billion. That was secured by us, by the state. That amount was 85 billion in 2010. That's an increase of 40 billion. There can be no landlord tax against that and there can be no tax against that. At that time, the waiting lists didn't take off. At that time we had the largest social housing stock in Europe and the waiting lists did not go down. At that time, we demolished a large part of our cheap stock and at that time, in terms of the newly built houses that were set up, the average size of a social rental house from 60 m to 85 m, while the families became smaller and in cities demand came from zzp'ers, creatives, students and young people to smaller living spaces. It was good for the real estate portfolios to set up large houses and it was good for the municipalities' land policy to sell expensive land, but the real demand was not met. A monopoly has been created. The demand has not been looked at, the value of real estate portfolios has been looked at. Let's get this straight. There is a stalled housing market and, as far as I am concerned, we are all responsible for this, one more than the other. The task of all of us, at least this cabinet and the housing agreement parties, was to do something about it, to get those waiting lists taken away. That's the main call we're making. This also raises the question of what we are going to do to give the people who have temporarily or permanently been given a place in our society and who have fled war violence, a place. That is also the task we face, given that even with an additional 40 billion between 2004 and 2010, waiting lists have not decreased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u99	I do not take responsibility for the scandalous policy that Mr Monasch has just described. Self-determination, privatisation, liberalisation, distance selling: the Labour Party has always been responsible for this. I welcome the fact that Mr Monasch acknowledges and congratulates him on this. But what happens now? The Labour Party is opening the door wide to the potential liberalisation of 90,000 social housing. The Labour Party allows tenants to pay a tax of more than 1.5 billion euros in order to pay the villa subsidy. The Labour Party explodes the rents with the result that the waiting lists grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u100	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u101	How does the Labour Party intend to ensure that these social housing is rebuilt?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u102	Let me immediately help Mrs Karabulut out of the dream and also serve Mr Van Klaveren by answering his question. No homes would be built by the corporations, but in 2013, a crisis year, 30,000 homes were built. The CBS announced yesterday that 50,000 houses were built in the Netherlands in 2013. There are also a lot of homes being demolished in the Netherlands. Yesterday in Cobouw there was a message with a headline that was:'North Brabant champion sluggers. I also have to be honest: it says that there are more homes coming back for it. Now we have to look at what we are going to do with the extra demand caused by people fleeing war violence and not being able to go back. We give them temporary or permanent living space. My proposal is this. For starters, we have to build differently. In the short term, this will not immediately bring a solution, but in the cities we will have to build smaller ones. We will have to build higher up in the cities. We will have to look together, in the context of this urgent problem, to see if we can postpone for a while any scrapping plans that do not have a replacement new building. We will have to look for possibilities for container construction; this has also been done by others. These are excellent properties that can be temporarily set up. There's a lot of students in there. This will enable us to solve the problem at the moment. We can revisit the SP after....................................................................................................................................................................... I visited a corporation in Emmen that is going to demolish property in certain neighbourhoods because it is bad for the real estate portfolio. There is a demand for it, but a little less than usual. Then people start thinking about what's good for the real estate portfolio. We're gonna have to figure out where we need homes. There won't be time to demolish. That is why I call on the Cabinet to consider the possibilities for all these matters. I would like to say the following to the cabinet. Be tough, put the parties around the table. There will be a European summit shortly. Shortly afterwards, bring the municipalities, the developers, the corporations and the other landlords together to see how this problem can be solved. The Labour Party does not want people on the waiting list to be on the waiting list any longer. The problem of undersupply must be solved with temporary housing, with other forms of housing. It can't be that people who have been on the waiting list for a long time now have to wait longer. That is why we say to the cabinet: put the parties together and make task-setting agreements to put together and solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mrs Karabulut, you have asked a long question and received a long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u104	Sometimes it makes me uncomfortable. The Labour Party, with Mr Monasch as its spokesman, is responsible for the neoliberal policy of selling out social housing. She is now dealing with the right: the former asylum seeker would be the one causing the housing shortage and pushing others into the housing market. The PvdA Group does not want to let go of the landlord's tax and rent increases, but wants to release the position, the status "urgent" of the ex-asylum seeker, if I understand correctly. Is that the fair and social policy of the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mrs Karabulut is well-equipped and the entire idiom of the SP comes by again, with all kinds of things that would not be right. Perhaps Mrs Karabulut should have paid more attention just before the summer break. A new lease policy has been proposed, supported by Aedes and the House Union. The rent increase will be a maximum of 1%; this also applies to the dwellings released. This restricts the harmonization of rents, and thus inhibits the liberalisation of housing, the cabinet itself writes. Let Mrs Karabulut take a look at all the plans of the housing corporations, of the Central Fund for Housing, if she has to be so huge from her constituency. Predictions don't come true sometimes. The plans of the housing corporations show that the stock of more than 2.4 million housing corporations in 2017 remains intact. Let Mrs Karabulut take a look at the figures. Perhaps she should quote from her constituents or new party chairman such texts as this, but they are simply not in line with the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u106	Can I now answer my question? Is the message from De Telegraaf that the PvdA, together with the VVD, is advocating the release of the status "urgent" of the former asylum seekers, the status holders, and that the former asylum seekers should not be given priority housing, such as the elderly and other groups with the status "urgent"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u107	I choose my own words. Mrs. Karabulut yells, "Yes or no?', But I'm about my own answer, like she's about her own question. Let me give you an example. Currently, approximately 4% of the homes released are allocated to people holding status. That may increase, I can repeat that to Mr Van Klaveren. According to Aedes, it can go up to 10%. What we don't want is for that increase to be at the expense of the house seekers on the waiting list. We want us to work together to find solutions to this problem. This can be done by enabling temporary housing, by delaying demolition plans and by reducing the size of the building. Parties must be brought together to counter this increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u108	I listened very carefully to Mr Monasch. He made a full speech on the state of play in particular in the years just after 2000 and the way in which the housing corporations have developed. The fact remains that the waiting lists have just gotten bigger. I shall go back to the moment after the survey, where measures have also been taken from the cabinet to reduce the pressure on corporations, to get movement in them and to get the corporations healthy. The conclusion I can draw is that it's only gotten worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u109	Anyone who has read the newspapers of this summer and of the last few days will see that all signs of construction are green. Whoever looks at the calamities that have been predicted to us must look at what has really been built. There wouldn't be a house built anymore, but there would be 30,000. I had an almost crying director of the Association for Developers and Building Entrepreneurs (NVB) here, because no new housing would be built anymore. That was Mr Rietdijk. They just can't be dragged around right now. We went through a valley. We have taken tough measures together, because the flow has to start. Also, the unpaid mortgage had to believe in it, because it stopped a free rental sector in the middle segment. You were crazy if you rented a property for €700 or €800, because you were much cheaper out with a refund-free mortgage. That segment has to come back to start the flow. The housing agreement parties made that decision with each other to finally make the housing market healthy again, but the CDA didn't give it at home. That's a long process. Something that's built up in ten to twenty years, you don't change in a year. But I repeat it to the CBS: all signals are green. We're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u110	I must agree with Mr Monasch when he says that all the signals are good. We have to note that the level of investment of corporations is too low. I refer in particular to the landlord's tax, which is too heavy a tax on the financial position of the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u111	I'll fight that. We showed that here, too. The income of the housing corporations in 2012 was 13.2 billion. These are 17.7 billion in 2017. This is the case because people earn so much in many other sectors. One has a far too big overhead. That is now acknowledged. That is why it is said: with the Housing Union we can agree on a rental policy that is much cheaper than we initially assumed. We're gonna reduce our expenses. We're gonna rent our properties differently. So there too you can see that there are possibilities
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u112	This brings to an end the first term of office. After the suspension, we'll continue with the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u113	I give the floor to the Minister for Housing and National Service for his first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman. At the same time, the arrival of large numbers of refugees, especially from Syria, evokes very strong feelings of humanity and feelings of concern in the Netherlands. That humanity was also strikingly expressed by Mr Monasch, who sketched: you will only be the father of a Jezid family, the fundamentalists are at the gate, what choice do you have? The feelings of concern have also been rightly expressed by many Members of Parliament. People in the Netherlands are worried, for example about their own position on the waiting list for a rental house or that of their children. They are also more concerned about the sustainability of the welfare state or the affordability of the assistance. Those concerns are also very justified. The policy area for which I am primarily responsible, therefore, also has great concerns. On the one hand, there is humanity, on the other hand, the question of how to ensure that our precious social housing system remains accessible. This starts with an analysis, made by Mrs Karabulut in her own way, of the supply and demand of social housing and its impact on the policies pursued. Next, I will focus in my speech on the consequences of the arrival of large numbers of status holders. First of all, the provision of social housing and the consequences of the policy pursued. As most of the spokesmen are aware, I would like to welcome Mr Koolmees and I look forward to the debates with him; knowing him, I do not tell him any new figures either; there are some 2.6 million regulated rentals in the Netherlands. The target group with an income below the allocation limit, i.e. about €34.000, is about 2 million people. So in numbers, there's no shortage of social housing nationwide. A fact is that there are about 600,000 social rental homes inhabited by households with an income above the allocation limit, so the income limit at which you would be entitled today to a social housing. That is why the cabinet, with the support of the housing agreement parties, has taken a number of measures, and I will soon come up with an additional law to promote this flow. In doing so, I want to make sure that the 600,000 houses that are there and are inhabited by people who could have found a home without social housing become available to the target group. Indeed, status holders are part of that target group. This raises the question, which Mrs Karabulut put very sharply once again, whether that stock is sufficient in itself. Is there a new housing shortage? I shared with the Chamber an investigation that was carried out not only at the request of my ministry but at the request of Aedes and Building Netherlands by the Economic Institute for Construction. This includes the expected need for homes and types of housing in the Netherlands in the coming decades. Now, in the case of long-term estimates, you always have to take a hit, but the picture is that there are, in general terms, sufficient social housing. Once again, this may be different locally; we know that there are areas where there is a shortage and that there are areas where there is a shortage, but mostly the picture is not that there is the great build-up. It is clear from this study that this major construction task lies in the free-sector rental and in the purchasing sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u115	Then how does the Minister explain the current growing waiting lists? One would say that the policy must now show some effect. According to the Minister's theory, people then go looking for a private home or buy it and then, in theory, get those homes free for the people they need. This does not appear to be the case in practice. More and more groups, including, for example, older people, need to be housed. Municipalities are no longer able to cope with the task, at least not all municipalities. At least a quarter can't take it anymore. How does the Minister explain that? I do not just want to rely on the projections of Building Netherlands. For example, Professor Hugo Priemus has also made a calculation with regard to the target group of the European Commission. This shows that in the longer term the demand of that group exceeds the supply of social housing, so there will be a growing shortage of social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mrs Karabulut raised a number of points. The projections shared with the Chamber are not from the Building Netherlands, but from the Economic Institute for Construction. Furthermore, it is part of an open society and a scientific debate that scientists come up with their own forecasts, which, of course, can also be discussed. From the Ministry we make professional estimates of the expected housing needs. We do this in all transparency. From that the picture emerges as I outline it to the Chamber. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Ronnes responded to the increasing waiting lists. There's no record of waiting lists. Most housing corporations have also stopped working with waiting lists for a long time, because they had experienced that those waiting lists were highly polluted. It was part of growing up that you signed up on the waiting lists for a social rental apartment, regardless of whether you really needed it. Corporations generally do not keep records of waiting lists. There is also no national registration of waiting lists. So I do not know of any numerical justification for the fact that the waiting lists are increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u117	That's kind of a concern for a Home Secretary. The SP, including myself as spokesman, has repeatedly asked for it over and over again in recent years, but the Minister refuses to map it. I can guess why he refuses. The Minister prefers to continue the sale of social housing and to allow the market to do its job at the expense of house seekers. We've been investigating it ourselves. I admit that this was complicated, precisely because of the lack of transparency. However, it is clear that in all major cities, but also in medium-sized cities, even in Groningen, our supply is shrinking and demand is rising; we are very concerned about the future. Once again, I ask the Minister how he explains that. Or does he deny that large groups in society are looking for an affordable home? Those people can't go to a place of sale right now. They can't rent from a private individual at the moment either, because they simply can't afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mrs Karabulut herself states that she has tried to get the waiting lists in view by means of a survey. It's not true that the minister doesn't want to map those waiting lists. Housing corporations don't make those waiting lists, because experience shows that they give a very distorted picture. Mrs Karabulut mentioned the example of Groningen. Coincidentally, last Monday, I spoke to a director of a housing corporation from Groningen. He just said that in the city of Groningen the waiting lists are overlookable, because in the neighborhoods built in the 1970s, Beijum and Lewenborg, houses are generally readily available. Of course there are people who prefer not to live in a seventy-seven neighborhood, but it does illustrate that stories about deficits are not always consistent with the reality of a housing corporation director.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u119	The Minister sees it as a major problem that about 600,000 people with an income higher than €34,000 per year live in a social housing unit. This is linked to the Minister's analysis that there are, in principle, sufficient social housing. I think that is a dangerous reasoning, because people with income of just over €34.000 can bezzp'ers who don't get into business at all on the housing market. Maybe it's people who are afraid their income is going down or people who don't want to pay too much for a home because they'd rather go on vacation one more time. That free choice leaves the Minister for a while, but that is a very important failure in his analysis. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u120	The social housing stock is built up and is kept affordable with community money. In the past, this was done with large direct subsidies. To date, this is a state guarantee. Locally, the provision of land is often cheaper. Where community money is used, I believe that Mr Madlener has also been heard in this direction in previous debates. It is logical that you, as a community, should ensure that this ends up with the people who need it most. For people with an income just above the income limit, also on the initiative of Mr Monasch, a temporary additional allocation space of up to €38.000 is foreseen. However, I cannot explain, but Mr Madlener is free in his own opinion, why a person who, twenty years ago, had a low income, would still have to live there two or three times. We're not talking about incidents. It concerns 600,000 homes of 2.6 million social housing units in the Netherlands. Then you're talking about a little more housing than there are in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. It's really incredibly much. It would make a huge contribution to today's problem, but it would also be much wider if you looked at the blockage of the housing market, if it started to flow. This cabinet, fortunately with the support of an important part of the Chamber, has taken measures to this end. You do all that dosed, with a decent measure, because it's not illegal what those people do. Fortunately, the first figures show that the flow is starting, but Mr Madlener cannot blame this cabinet for not doing anything about it. In fact, I can't call it a cabinet that has done it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u121	The reproach is actually that the minister is scaring people out of their homes. Flow is wonderful when people of their own free will want to improve their housing situation and buy a house or rent a more expensive house. That's beautiful. We must make this as easy as possible. However, there are also people who do not choose to do so. They prefer to stay in their cheap home in the Jordaan. They like it there, they don't pay too much and they go on vacation one more time. That's also a free choice. A second aspect is added. Many of these homes are located in very vulnerable and difficult neighbourhoods with a lot of problems, social problems and integration problems. We've talked about it for decades. Now the Minister is going to chase those who make more money out of their homes to house asylum seekers. That's not good for those neighborhoods, I can tell him. All those allah-akbar-calling crowds I was just talking about end up in those old neighborhoods. I would ask the Minister, in addition to the figures on income, to consider the quality of life and the quality of life in the neighbourhoods of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr Madlener talks about hunting out of the house, but there is no obligation to move. It is true that, through the income-dependent rent increase of people with such a good income, we are expecting a greater contribution in Mr Madlener's example. With new allocations, social housing therefore goes to people who really need it. I agree with Mr Madlener that it is good when neighbourhoods are mixed. That really doesn't have to go through the line of letting people live with a good income in social housing, especially in the Jordaan. In many places, where neighborhoods are not already naturally mixed, it is either because corporations allow residents to buy houses, which are generally very happy with them, or because of mixed construction during restructuring. During the review of the Housing Act, we also left that possibility open in cases where the market does not want to take it up. I share Mr Madlener's analysis that mixed districts are good, but I do not agree with him that this would be possible anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the term "waitlists." The minister says there are no waiting lists anymore. He will, like me, have contacts in the country and will also receive signals from aldermen, city council members and citizens that people will have to wait longer for a rental home. Is the Minister aware that this pressure is increasing and that people find that they have to wait longer for a rental house?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u124	I have pointed out to Mr Ronnes that there are no waiting lists kept by corporations. The firm remark 'the waiting lists are growing', made by Mr Ronnes among others, cannot therefore be based on figures. I was just telling you what I was talking about last Monday with a housing corporation director from Groningen. The picture is that there is great pressure on the housing market in a number of cities, especially in the west of the country. At the same time, there are also places with a relaxed housing market and municipalities with surpluses. I will discuss the allocation policy of municipalities later. Of course, it breaks down in those places where there are shortages. That is why I will be happy to work with many of your suggestions. But once again, the firm statement "the waiting lists are growing" is not numerically substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u125	I think it is precisely the lack of insight into how big the problem is. Surely it would be worth something that you can see in the analysis where the pain really is right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u126	I agree with Mr Ronnes. That is why we had that analysis done. I started by sketching out the construction of the housing market and the expected demand on the housing market. I shall now turn to the questions put to me by the various Members of Parliament. Mrs Karabulut has a role to play in calling again for the abolition of the landlord's tax. It is almost three years since we had the first debates on this subject. Mr Monasch pointed out the ghost images that were being called up at the time, namely that no house would be built anymore and that corporations would go bankrupt. In the meantime, we know, for example from the figures of the Central Fund for Housing, that housing is still being built on a large scale. Last year it was 18,000, just to solve that riddle. The financial position of the housing corporations is considerably better than the initial transfers showed. In the meantime, an agreement has also been concluded by the umbrella of housing corporations with the tenants' association, whereby the housing corporations voluntarily declare their intention to further moderate the rent increase, knowing that this entails a reduction in investment capacity. However, they say, on their own account, that they can do this and that they think that this is a sensible choice. I promised the Chamber that I would be happy to come forward with a proposal where this would require legal anchoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u127	It is also a fact that for the coming years the number of new social housing units will decrease by about 30%. Indeed, this also has to do with investment capacity. Of course, I am pleased that affordability is being taken into account. The minister set up the rent explosion. That is what we are going to talk about. My question in this context is: why should we not exempt municipalities and corporations, which we know are long waiting lists, or at least housing shortage, from the landlord's tax so that they can invest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u128	It's a standard role-play between Mrs Karabulut and me, this discussion about the landlord levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u129	I'm not playing a game; this is a very serious proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u130	Once again, the actual investment, the results for the past years........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Nor does it show that there is no investment. All the gloomy stories about the financial position have not come true either. Whether or not there is an addition depends on a very local consideration. Housing corporations also make local estimates as I have just outlined them nationally. In many places housing corporations conclude that there is little demand for social housing now, or in the process of persecuting the population projections in perhaps ten years' time. That's why less is being built. Against the background of these estimates, it is not surprising that the addition of social housing is at a lower level than a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u131	We're not getting anywhere with this right now. The Minister closes his eyes to the growing need for affordable housing. With regard to the new housing shortage, the Minister says: that will solve itself. My question then is whether the Minister is at least prepared to stop selling our social housing. Recently, all in all, 10,000 affordable rentals, which are simply bought by all kinds of capitalists, like Round Hill Capital and Patrizia. And there is much more in the pipeline, while we have a growing shortage and our elderly and our disabled need to be housed. Is the Minister at least prepared to stop this development, given the growing demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u132	We have made the decision on the size of the social housing stock and whether or not to sell it in the Housing Act very consciously part of the performance agreements between municipalities and corporations, in which the tenant organisations have a major role, partly thanks to Mrs Karabulut. That's where the decisions are made. Locally there may be a need for extra social rentals, but it may also be good that there are enough or too many, or that there are relatively many expensive social rentals. As Mrs Karabulut knows, in recent years many expensive social housing has been built. Then it may be wise to dispose of some of it and rebuild it with its yield cheaper. Or think of the existing stock that is poorly insulated. It can be isolated. We really need to leave that space to the local performance agreements, the local consultation between municipalities, corporations and tenants. Mrs Karabulut and others asked me to look at a different distribution key between municipalities. Due to the influx of status holders, numbers of people are allocated to municipalities. This is based on the population of municipalities. We have discussed with municipalities whether it can be done in another way. Some of you pointed out the differences in housing shortage and also economic capacity of a municipality. Of course I recognize it. In the end, it turned out that we could not agree on a different distribution key in the national consultation. All weighing up municipalities say: no, this is the fairest way to do it. Among other things, Mr Van der Linde asked whether municipalities could be divided among themselves. Mrs Karabulut gave the example of Amsterdam, who, for example, can make an appointment with Almelo. Maybe not entirely coincidental, but those contacts are gone. Only that has not led to a conclusion. It is allowed, there is no legal obstacle for municipalities to make agreements with each other. "Do you, municipality with a smaller problem on the housing market, want to take over some of my allocated quota?" The receiving municipality generally estimates that status holders are more likely to claim benefits. Over time, some will work happily. Therefore, it is also wise that people do not remain endlessly in a shelter, but the dependency on a benefit is high and the use of support facilities is often too. So the follow-up question of the receiving municipality is: then I would like to have an amount transferred for that. This is often the case, not because there is a legal barrier, but because two municipalities have to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u134	I do not want to impose an interruption limitation, so I will allow an interruption, but the number of interruptions is not unlimited. You're starting with your third interruption, and that's a lot, you know. The Minister is still at the beginning of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u135	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u136	The Minister was still answering your question and you are the first of eight spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u137	This is kind of my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u138	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I get that. They're not coming out. Why not? What role and solutions does the Minister see for himself? Or are they simply not there? I'm trying to get information to make an assessment of whether this is a real solution direction. Does this play between more municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u140	The question of why it doesn't work, I can't answer from this distance. After all, I didn't sit at the table myself. I know that a number of municipalities have tried to make such an appointment. Financial considerations play a very important role in this. The transfer of money is always very sensitive between two people for some reason, so also between two municipalities. Of course, you have to make an assessment. What proportion of people have found a job after a certain period of time? Unfortunately, the employment rate of status holders is significantly lower than the national average. What appeal will people make to mental health care or youth assistance because of war history? That's probably the main reason why municipalities don't come out. That doesn't mean it's impossible. It's really a matter of knotting together. The question whether it helps if we formulate a different distribution key nationwide, we have explored very strongly with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. The answer was after good consultation: no, this is the most just way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u141	I shall come back to the first point. The national government is also concerned with issues such as benefits, costs of integration and the cost sharing standard, which may also act as a deterrent. Is the Minister still on that path with the working group, the municipalities and the VNG? Is he gonna work that out anymore? If two municipalities agree with each other, a municipality that doesn't have a living space, a number of status holders may reside in another municipality, which is compensated for that....................................................................................................................................................................................... Is there a question from municipalities to the Empire? If not, what directions can the Minister come up with? Is he prepared to carry out a study on this and to inform us of the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u142	We will discuss both topics in the consultation around the platform Again Home. I'd like to put this on the table again. The special thing about this subject is that it has already been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u143	I'd like to make an appeal to the cabinet. Through the Minister I may also make this appeal to the Dutch municipalities that are listening, but we are talking to the cabinet here. Soon the tasks in Europe will be divided and other countries, bad guys or mayors in wartime who say they are not participating will be forced to participate in a European distribution key. It can't be that the cabinet will come home and say: municipalities, this is our deal, figure it out now. The congregations should just sit down at the table. We need to make an appointment with each other. This responsibility must be felt by the municipalities. They must sit at the table with other parties who wish to cooperate. I know corporations like to cooperate. Take, for example, the shelter of Eritreans in the east of the country. We need to sit at each other's tables to solve the problem. We see that the problem is coming towards us. We want to take people in, but we don't want this to be at the expense of people who have been on a waiting list for a long time or waiting a long time. Is the Minister prepared not only to talk about this, but really to discuss it? Is he prepared to agree on how we can really cope with increased demand? We need to keep everyone from going home under the guise "I'm sorry, I can't make it in my congregation."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u144	I agree with Mr Monasch. There is no question of a problem being thrown over the fence in the municipalities. The reason why we have restarted the platform Again Home, is that we realize that the construction of the allocation by municipality does exist and that the allocation really has to take place, but that it squeaks and grinds and gives rise to tension on the housing market in many places. That's exactly why we're sitting around the table. However, given the complexity, I cannot promise that I will have a solution for each component within two weeks. I'm sure we'll work hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u145	There is no need within two weeks, but I would like, for example, the month after the EU summit to have butter with the fish. That platform has been launched, but the noncommittality has to be removed. No commitment is reduced every day when we see what the urgency is. If we want to maintain social support with each other, that is a great asset for anyone who wants to conduct decent politics.... we have to make these agreements with each other. We shouldn't talk freely, we should make arrangements. Is the Minister prepared to enter into talks with the parties with this intention, if necessary, I hope that there is no need for heads against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u146	There's definitely that intention. I do not quite have the exact date of the EU's retinal summit, but it is my ambition to do so by November, I think that this is about the same time-limit to let the Chamber know the progress. Mr. Chairman. Mr van der Linde's speech focused heavily on many concerns about the impact on the waiting lists for social housing and the wider impact on the accessibility of social security. His first question was whether something could be changed to the national distribution of licence holders. I've just gone into that. I would like to open this discussion again, but the first experiences did not lead to any other conclusion. Among other things, Mr Van der Linde addressed the priority that status holders have when there is a housing regulation in a municipality. Municipalities have the opportunity to make a housing regulation. That's not a duty. Not all municipalities do this, but many municipalities, especially the deficit municipalities, have a housing regulation. This is a matter of priority. Moreover, if there is no housing regulation, there is no priority regulation. This is also the case in a large number of Dutch municipalities. If the housing regulation is there, then the law does say that status holders belong to the category that should be given priority. This is based on the idea that when a status holder finds work, he not only finds life's happiness, but also, of course, makes less use of social services. Therefore, making the flow from a COA more difficult, regardless of the direct costs of the COA to which Mr Koolmees referred, not only has human consequences, but also has the effect of extending the use of tax money for that part of the status holders who otherwise had found a job. That is why it may also have adverse consequences to call into question such a system of priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u147	I see that importance. I see that a person who can get a job has an interest in landing in a neat family home on the proverbial "Klaproos 47" in a Vinex municipality. There are also status holders whose real expectation is that they will not have to return in the long term or otherwise integrate into Dutch society. Should these people also be urgently housed in social housing or can we look for alternatives for that group? We have outlined those alternatives. They are not economically bound to any particular municipality. We can work much more creatively because of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u148	Status holders first get a five-year residence permit. It will then be examined whether the situation in the country of origin has improved. If that is the case, which, of course, we all hope, then that may be a reason to say that someone can go back to their own country. In those five years, people get to get a job. For the reasons I have just indicated, I think that is also desirable. We do not make any further differentiation. Many questions have been asked about the possibility of adding unorthodox housing to the stock of social housing. I think that's a very promising option. I'll admit I'll look into it. By the way, actions have already started. There is often a very practical problem. I recently had an exchange of views with housing corporations on this subject. Take temporary accommodation, which is often a bit more chic than a container house. Temporary housing can often be realized technically quickly, but a housing corporation is responsible for the investment demand. If the corporation places such a complex somewhere, it will have to make the sum: I am investing now and that investment is of course less in temporary housing than in permanent housing and I have a payback period of five or ten years, can I earn that investment back? That's a logical question. Mr Ronnes asked a question about the transformation of offices. We inventory all which state offices are suitable for this purpose. Here too, when considering whether the general housing corporation will take this on board, the question will be whether this conversion can be recouped. The rules on relocation and temporary relocation of offices have been drastically simplified two years ago. I'm never gonna get any more questions about that either. The question is purely an investor question: do I as a landlord usually earn a housing corporation that remodels or that temporary home back in the period before that? Mr Madlener asked whether a different rent would be charged for licence holders than for other tenants. I'm not familiar with those signals. As long as the rent remains below the maximum amount allowed by the housing valuation system, the housing corporation is free to determine the amount of the rent. I do not know any examples of housing corporations using a different rate by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u149	It is not known to the Minister, but that is not an answer to my question. If the minister doesn't know, we don't know. I'd like to know what's going on. The people with a slightly too high income are chased out of their homes with additional rent increases. Their social housing is getting more expensive and more expensive until the moment the cop says: it's getting too expensive for me now, I'm going to another house. The house gets empty, and then there's an ex-asylum seeker in the house. Then suddenly he gets a lower rent? It would be very hard for that cop who was bullied out of his house, that an asylum seeker would then get that house for a much lower rent. I do not want to know whether the Minister knows that or not, I want to answer my question as to whether it is. Are there any cases where the cop gets bullied out of his house with rent increases and then an asylum seeker can live in the same house for a very low rent? That's what I want to know from the minister, and if he doesn't know, I'm gonna ask him to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u150	A minister is also a human being. Each year some 300,000 new rentals take place in the Netherlands; fortunately not all of them are registered in the Ministry. It is therefore impossible for me to judge how the rental price is set in 300 000 cases. On the other hand, if Mr Madlener can provide me with concrete examples, I would be happy to go into them. I don't have them right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u151	I would like to look for these examples, but then the question is what the Minister will do with them. Does he also find it unfair and undesirable for a Dutchman with high rents to be chased out of his house, which is the policy of the government................................................................................................................................................... Does the Minister consider this undesirable? If so, I will help him with examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u152	I really need to know the concrete example or the concrete examples otherwise we speculate about something that has or has not occurred without knowing the precise circumstances. Once again, if Mr Madlener has any examples, I will immediately say that I will go into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u153	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr Madlener also asked for the following. If a status holder is deprived of the status, for example in the case we all hope, namely that there will be peace in the country of origin, will the lease be automatically dissolved? That doesn't happen automatically. The end of the status means, inter alia, that the right to a benefit, if any, and the right to reside are terminated. If there is no more rental income, the landlord will simply terminate the lease after sending a notice. It'll run along that route. Mr Voordewind asked me to consider a number of measures in the platform Again Home. Some of them I've gone into. He specifically asked about the possibility of private rental. There are not really any legal obstacles for them either. If that's what people want, they can rent a room. If a part of the house is rented structurally, a permit will be required in many municipalities. However, it is not forbidden to take people in. Many people will personally find this a difficult task, but there are undoubtedly also people who want to take such a step out of goodwill or perhaps because they can ask rent for it. In consultation with municipalities, I would like to look again at whether they are experiencing or concerned about specific bottlenecks. I would like to say to Mr Voordewind that in my report before 1 November I will come back to bottlenecks that can arise for the private landlord.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u155	I thank the Minister for this commitment. It was also tried in the 1990s. Perhaps the Minister could contact his colleague in Germany. That's what this is all about right now. The government even encourages this through fiscal measures. The cabinet could therefore develop some incentives or see if we can actually encourage them. Of course, there are also a number of challenges. RefugeeWork The Netherlands has already listed them. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to look at the overall package with the VNG and Refugee Work Netherlands. It's not easy; I recognize that. Guidance and matching are needed. Previously this has been arrested by RefugeeWork Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to involve Refugee Work Netherlands in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u156	I will be happy to involve RefugeeWork Netherlands. I will look at the German example. There is, of course, a financial issue in tax regulations, but also a question of equality: should or should you make a distinction in room rental between renting out one legally resident in the Netherlands and the other legally resident in the Netherlands? These practical questions arise when it comes to extending this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u157	Thank you. I would like to see back, possibly through the reporting, what comes out of that consultation with the VNG and Refugee Work. This saves me another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u158	Mr Van Klaveren asked whether the housing shortage among licence holders is different from that among ordinary house seekers. If that is the way the question is asked, I think the answer can only be yes. A marketing authorisation holder is staying at a centre of the COA, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers, and can find very difficult work from that position, learn the language and feel a bit at home. For this reason, the law states that the municipality must include status holders in the priority category when working with a housing regulation. Mr Ronnes first raised the question of whether housing companies could invest too little. In my response to Mrs Karabulut, I have already dealt with this. I would also point out to Mr Ronnes that the investment capacity of housing corporations within the government's policy does not deviate from the investment capacity that follows from the CDA election programme. It makes other choices because the rent payment disappears and corporations have to pay it themselves, but the per-balance effect on investment capacity is no different. In fact, we should not have to discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u159	I would like to respond to what the Minister was just doing. He said that "to feel at home" and "to learn the language" are arguments to give asylum seekers priority over regular housing seekers. To what extent does he consider that "to feel a little at home" and "to learn the language" itself a legitimate answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u160	This summary is by Mr Van Klaveren. I have indicated that, fortunately, a significant proportion of the status holders find work. This makes a huge contribution to the happiness of life, as I mentioned earlier, but also less recourse to collective resources. I think that Mr Van Klaveren will certainly welcome that part. Both effects, the happiness of life and the reduced use of collective resources, are not realised when people stay in separate centres. That is why we have made the choice for this priority arrangement. Again, I will look again with the municipalities at the practical effects, but the justification is still plausible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u161	It seems to me that the happiness of a regular house seeker is also promoted by normal housing. I still don't see what that particular reason is. Learning the language was just mentioned; apparently this could be less easy in a COA centre than at home on the couch. I'm seriously asking the Minister if he thinks his answer is legitimate. It seems to me that regular house seekers sitting at home are just as much in need of life's happiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u162	It is not a question of whether other people are not entitled to life's happiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u163	That was your argument, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u164	Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness; I like that summary of the task of a government. The question was whether the situation of a status holder is different from that of someone who is long-term in the Netherlands. I think you can objectively establish that the situation is different. This does not mean that Dutch people no longer have rights, but that both categories are people of urgency. This also applies to other categories, such as people who are dependent on a home because of a disability, people who are homeless or have to take up their lives from a psychiatric institution. Status holders are not the only category, but they are a large one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u165	About the landlord's tax. We are not so concerned with the principle of the landlord's tax but with the level of the landlord's tax. We see that many corporations carry a very high level of debt, which means that the level of investment is too low. That is why the CDA has proposed in this year's counter-budget that some of it should create a little more investment space for corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr Ronnes is right: an additional 250 million was mentioned in the CDA's counter-budget. However, this counter-budget led to a larger deficit. So there could also have been an amount of 2.5 billion, or 25 billion. For all those amounts, the money wasn't there. So I went back to the time of the election programmes, because that was a moment when there really was a comparison between all political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u167	Let us not have a discussion here about the counter-budget that was put on the table in the previous budget. As far as I am concerned, the counter-budget of the CDA Group contained a very real picture. Moreover, the counter-budget gave the corporations perspective, by offering them a little more investment space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u168	I don't want to misunderstanding Mr Ronnes. I very much appreciate when an opposition party comes forward with a counter-budget and concrete proposals. At the time I had a different role in the Chamber, and was a member of an opposition party, so did we. I think that is a pure way of doing politics. I only appreciate that. I therefore guarantee to Mr Ronnes that the cabinet looks with appreciation, but also, of course, with a critical look at the counter-budget that the CDA Group will undoubtedly recreate. This also applies to this part, but I would like to say again that I think it is a credit to the CDA Group that these choices are made transparently. This means, of course, that I can comment on this, as I do. That, however, is the way in which politics should be practiced. Mr Ronnes also made a number of concrete proposals. I've already gone into real estate. We are already carrying out a screening in this area. Then I come to the proposal to increase the number of status holders per home. On average, that's two now. Increasing that number is indeed one of the options I put on the table in the working group I mentioned earlier. This includes, as an intermediate solution, the deployment of other properties or properties that are temporarily empty. Private landlords can and do contribute to housing. On that point, I do not have a clear eye on my retina, which Mr Ronnes is referring to. Maybe he can deal with this in the second term. Then I come to Mr Koolmees' questions. I have already discussed the state of play in the working group and the time when I will return to it. I have also dealt with the issue of multiple status holders per home. I hope I have dealt with all the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u169	There's one more question I want to ask you. In January, the Minister estimated that 15,000 homes would be sent to asylum seekers. I asked for the current figure and it is expected for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u170	The forecast for the current year is that there will be more than 29,000 people in total. I say this with a blow to the arm, because migratory flows can suddenly increase and decrease. I have just said that on average two status holders are housed per house. According to the current figures, this brings you to about 15,000 homes. For next year it is of course very coffee-diving. It depends very much on political developments in Syria and in other countries. So that's very hard to estimate. For this year, with the current state of affairs, this is the estimate we can make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u171	Thank you. This brought an end to the government's first term of office. I suggest we proceed immediately with the second term. I see that Mrs Karabulut is already in the starting blocks, so I give her the floor. She's got about two minutes before her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u172	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more residential residents, such as psychiatric patients, elderly people and licence holders, are entitled to a priority social housing;]] [[noting that, in particular, cities with the longest waiting lists for social housing should give priority to the majority of licence holders;]] [[points out that not only should the size of a municipality play a role in the distribution of former refugees with a residence permit;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities, to achieve a more balanced distribution of licence holders, involving, in addition to the population, other characteristics such as population composition, the labour market situation and the availability of housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas waiting lists for social housing are growing;]] [[noting that the total stock of social housing has shrunk to 31% since 1992;]] [[calls on the government to stop the sale and liberalisation of social housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the landlord's tax does not contribute to the investment capacity of housing corporations and thereby to the building of rental houses;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt housing corporations from the landlord levy in places where the housing shortage is greatest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-187]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-188]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u173	There is a housing shortage that only grows with the cabinet plans. I have a specific question for the Minister, in addition to a response to the motions. If I'm right, the minister talked about the fact that corporations are currently building 18,000 social housing units a year. The chairman of Bouwend Nederland, Maxime Verhagen, speaks of 7.000. Can the Minister indicate this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u174	Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD. Two minutes, including reading the motion. It can be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u175	Then I'll drop the motions, thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. We are trying, conscientiously, to highlight two sides of the coin. On the one hand there is a human tragedy; the fate of thousands of drownings in the Mediterranean. This calls for a different asylum policy. On the other hand, more practically, this creates tensions in our social services. The VVD has fought for a welfare state and its facilities. We'll have newcomers report to it. However, there is now tension on social housing. Our key point is that we want to relieve social housing, so that others on the waiting list are dealt with in good time. In other words, the salvation should not come from corporations, but from other parties, including commercial parties, should be given a chance. Now I'm a little concerned with what the minister just said about the housing regulation. If you have a housing regulation and most serious cities have it, then you automatically give each status holder an urgency statement. That means we're gonna stay on those corporations. I am not going to table a motion on this, but I would ask the Minister to see how we can get around that, so that other parties come on board and we relieve social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u176	I don't know what I'm hearing! I read in the newspaper this morning that the VVD is going to make a proposal to give priority only to those with permanent residence status. The Minister has just replied that he does not intend to. Now the VVD comes up with nothing, not even a motion. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u177	I ask the Minister to think, I cannot say more specifically, about this particular problem. As long as we give everyone that urgency, everything goes through social housing, and I don't want that. I ask the Minister to resolve that. I assume that Mr Madlener agrees. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this particular problem. As long as we give everyone an emergency statement, everything goes through social housing, and I don't want that. I'm asking the Minister to take care of that. I assume we're in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u178	I read in the newspapers this morning the VVD's strong language that only the group of refugees with permanent residence status should be given priority and not those with temporary residence status. You have just asked the Minister if he is prepared to take care of that and his answer is no. And now you're just gonna leave it hanging.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u179	And I'm gonna ask you again. As far as the key is concerned, I am pleased to see that the Minister misunderstood me that it will not be adjusted. If that were to happen, we would be rewarding large cities that do nothing about crooked living at the expense of, for example, a Drenthe village where a lot more people with status suddenly have to be housed. Please let the municipalities figure that out in consultation with each other and give the Interprovincial Consultation a role in that, but don't go to The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u180	This is a bit of a weird figure, isn't it? The leader of the VVD, now in the capacity of Prime Minister Rutte, will go to a European summit and make appointments there and then the VVD says: "Check it all out with each other in the Netherlands." That can't be the order, can it? If the Prime Minister of this country makes an agreement at European level, can I assume that the VVD will support the Prime Minister and that that agreement will be kept in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u181	We are in complete agreement on that. I think it's a logical two-stroke. You first make agreements on the distribution key in a European context and then lay down the distribution key in the Netherlands. But we don't have to adjust the key for that, do we? We now have a system where, for about 1,100 to 1,200 inhabitants, you have to house one person. I think that's a fair system. So I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u182	The problem lies in the fact that, so far, these municipalities have not come together. There is a reason why an extra summit has been held in Europe to tackle this problem. You have to put people at each other's tables, and if they still turn out to be unwilling, you might have to talk them through to make sure that this problem is solved together. Isn't that a route that would also support the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u183	The platform Again Home already exists. You can get everyone to join us. Only, that has led to the conclusion: leave it with the municipalities. I therefore do not understand the plea to draw everything to The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr. Chairman. The problem with social housing is the tip of the iceberg. This problem will increase many times in the coming years, because the influx will continue and this will only get worse because of the influxing policy pursued by this cabinet, I expect. This only exacerbates the problems of the Dutch in terms of livingability in the neighbourhoods as well as waiting lists. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is inundated by lucky seekers;]] [[Considering that the waiting lists for a social rental house are rising enormously due to the asylum influx;]] [[calls on the Government to close its borders and immediately terminate the priority regime for asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u185	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his commitment to looking at alternatives to the social rental sector and for unconventional measures; we have also mentioned a number of them ourselves. I shall table the next motion to indicate a little more specifically what we meant in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that status holders are entitled to an urgent declaration of urgency for a social housing establishment and that this may lead to a shortage on the social housing market;]] [[calls on the Government, as a matter of urgency, to consult with Refugee Work, VNG and other chain partners to examine the possibilities of private reception of refugees, at least considering:]] [[adequate screening, matching, accompaniment, back capture;]] [[tax consequences and consequences for benefits and rent payments;]] [[regulations of landlords and mortgage providers;]] [[possible possibilities for financial compensation for host families as is the case in Germany,]] [[and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Schouten and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u186	Our second proposal was about co-housing, about the possibilities of putting people together in a location using facilities. This motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas emergency seekers can be helped more quickly by extending the possibilities of housing with a shared front door (cohousing);]] [[Whereas such a form of housing can contribute to increasing the participation and self-reliance of status holders and combating loneliness;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the demand for cohousing among housing seekers, to enable cohousing in the short term and to inform the House for the examination of the Housing and National Service budget about bottlenecks in legislation and regulations that discourage the realisation of cohousing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-192]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u187	Mr. Chairman. As stated, the burden increases in the form of the landlord levy and the mass influx of asylum seekers are the causes of the huge waiting lists. Asylum seekers therefore have a priority in obtaining a social home. According to the Minister, this is so that asylum seekers can feel a bit at home. My group considers this system unfair, sees it undermines its support and points to the system's unsustainability, especially with an influx of 1,700 asylum seekers per week. If we are to solve this problem in a structural manner, we will have to minimise the influx of asylum, stop categorical asylum policy, remove the landlord levy and, of course, reduce the burden on citizens. This relief should preferably take the form of a low flat tax, so that the citizen can actually pay the houses on the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that displacement among residential seekers is an increasing problem;]] [[noting that the COA is based on 0,51 residence per beneficiary in the search for homes;]] [[noting that single residents can be well housed if they are jointly engaged in one home;]] [[calls on the Government to assume 0.3 per-house residences in the policy on accommodation for residents;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber on implementation as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u189	My second motion is because it is not quite clear what the Minister's answer was. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that displacement among residential seekers is an increasing problem;]] [[noting that the platform Again Home is not explicitly instructed to combat displacement among residential seekers as a task field;]] [[calls on the government, for the platform Again Home, to explicitly designate the displacement of house seekers as a task field and to inform the Chamber about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-194]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u190	It remains for me to explain the role of private landlords. Private landlords have put 450,000 homes on the market below the rental surcharge limit. So they're available. According to the data, about 100,000 homes change residents per year. Consultation with private bodies could alleviate the role of corporations at the time that this combination would be made. Is the Minister prepared to take a good look at whether this is helpful?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer. At the beginning of his speech, he gave a clear outline of the problems in the housing market and of the way in which the policies employed solve these problems in the slightly longer term. That is why D66 also supported the housing agreement a number of years ago. I think this is the right way to tackle the waiting lists and the lack of flow. It doesn't go from one moment to the next. It just takes time. That is why you also see that there are real problems in the short term. It is right that there is a great deal of attention to this. I asked a question about the Platform Home again in the first term. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Monasch have also asked questions about this in interruptions. I sympathise with Mrs Karabulut's motion, but at the same time I hear the Minister saying that the municipalities themselves do not want to do so. I am very curious to see if the Minister can exert some additional pressure to do justice to regional and local differences and to find a solution here. I think this is really a serious solution for the short term. Then there was the announced VVD proposal in the newspaper this morning to exempt the status holders from urgent declarations. My colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, always calls that "calling policy'. There is an announcement in the newspaper, the Minister then says in a debate on Wednesday morning that it is not really sensible and then it is dripping away a little bit. The image has been set, but nothing has changed in the meantime. And luckily, nothing has changed! It is simply very sensible policy, as the Minister of the VVD has also clearly explained. I asked another question in the first term. Sometimes there is a house available but people are just not out of procedure. The COA has a huge lack of capacity. That's gonna cost a lot of money. I have already referred to an amount of €20,000 per year in the first term. Then it can be rational and sensible, with a view to life's happiness, with a view to a job, at work, but also in view of the costs for society, to start with. Why is there not a little more flexibility in this area? I have not yet received an answer to that question. Can the Minister comment on this in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u192	I'm being addressed, so I'd like to respond to that. I have just devoted my entire speaking time to a second speech that I am unhappy with the Minister's explanation. This is seen in the context of the housing regulation, which apparently automatically means that people with a status have priority. I ask the Minister to look at that again. That is not a call-out policy, that is a very specific question. I also very much hope that the Minister will give a concrete answer. Otherwise, I'm forced to do something with an initiative law. Why don't I file a motion? There are 3,600 motions filed here a year. I think it's gonna be enough. All these beaches, and that's what I call a real call-out policy. I'd like to make that point. I would also like to put a question to Mr Koolmees immediately. How does D66 feel about that urgency statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u193	The second question is easy. I've already answered it in the first term. Mr Van der Linde can read that back. I would like to say a few words about the first point. I find that a little faint from Mr Van der Linde. The newspaper opens this morning with its statement 'I cannot sell it to the police officer and I would like to propose that the status holders, the people who get a five-year residence permit in the Netherlands, should not be eligible for an urgent declaration'. The newspaper opens with that proposal from the VVD. The Minister then says that this is an unwise proposal. It is unwise in view of the happiness of those people themselves. It is unwise in view of the costs it entails for society. People don't integrate and can't find a job. It is ill-advised in view of the benefits for society. It is therefore very unwise for all kinds of reasons. Then Mr Van der Linde of the VVD mumbles a bit and then the idea is gone. No motion will be tabled, no follow-up will be given. He asks another question to the Minister, but the proposal is gone. I would like to make this point about the policy of making calls, because it was very big in the newspaper this morning. Then I think: well, the VVD has made another tough proposal. There are three legitimate arguments put forward by the Minister and the proposal is gone. That happens about every week two or three times. I'll put my finger on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u194	Mr Koolmees almost forces me to table a gratuite motion that will not land anywhere. I want the Minister to take this and discuss it with other ministers in his Gremium. That's what I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mr Van der Linde is talking about a gratuite motion. Then I'm talking about a gratuitous newspaper report. If Mr Van der Linde apparently wants to speak to a journalist about this idea, then he must also be a man and table a motion on that point, or else simply not to speak to the journalist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr. Chairman. We welcome the commitment to return to business and discuss with the parties, but this is a very important precondition for us that there will be a package that will not lead to displacement. That is what we want to have said in a chamber motion. Hence the following text. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the demand for accommodation for asylum seekers with a temporary or permanent residence permit will increase in the near future;]] [[noting that this will increase the need for temporary and permanent accommodation;]] [[Whereas, without additional living space, the flow from azc's is stopped;]] [[Whereas the waiting period for other applicants should not be extended;]] [[Whereas many measures may increase the supply of housing, such as the conversion of office premises, container construction, smaller construction, higher building, the expansion of housing with independent living space, less demolition or the postponement of demolition plans if there is no replacement new construction, and the redistribution of mandatory tasks per municipality;]] [[calls on the Government, together with municipalities, landlords, builders and other directly involved parties in the short term, preferably within one month of the European Migration Summit of 14 September a.s., to come up with a plan of action on how to meet the increase in this demand in concrete terms, without increasing the waiting time for other house seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-195]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u197	The Minister just indicated in the interrupting debate that he has no idea or intention to make the waiting times and the waiting lists clear. What solution does Mr Monasch have for this? Do I understand that he is indeed asking the Minister with this motion for a resolution a concrete plan, with numbers of persons to be housed, but also new dwellings to be built?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u198	I want to come to a clear plan of action. The COA reports on what to expect every six months. It is always difficult to extrapolate that once, but I do make it very clear what the figures are. We all know that the numbers will increase. If you denied that, you'd stick your head in the sand. We need a package. I have mentioned many examples of this. We can choose from that, but it can all be done if that is possible, while ensuring that there is sufficient stock to be able to move along with increasing demand. That's what this is for. We can't make it over fences. We cannot allow others to wait longer. We must put our shoulder to each other and look for all the roads. I have given many examples of this to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u199	I agree. There's just more to be built. There must be more affordable homes if you want to solve this scarcity and thus house all the groups that are entitled to it. Do you exclude the financial support of corporations and municipalities or not, for example through an exemption from the tax to enable investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u200	The cabinet sits around the table with parties and we see that there is an increase, for example, in the number of recognised asylum seekers, which now also needs money, by requiring additional staff to make applications. That means we're gonna have to put in some financials. If the cabinet says at some point: we can carry out these plans, but there are obstacles that need to be removed or there will have to be interventions that may require a financial task, then we believe that the cabinet will also have to look generously at itself to do so. The cabinet cannot say: there will be an influx, make agreements in Europe and then you will all figure it out. You can't just say tough mayors, pull your own wallet. I am not saying that this is necessary in advance, but the cabinet must absolutely not say in advance that that is excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u201	This brought an end to the second term of the Chamber. The Minister is still waiting for the motion. Shall I suspend for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr. Chairman. A large number of motions have been tabled and several supplementary questions have been put. Before I go into that, I would like to say the following. My commitment is to collect, select and implement creative ideas in the platform Again Home with great urgency. In some of the motions, it is pre-sorted in such a way that a choice is already being made that I want to judge correctly in that platform. I therefore do not recommend these motions because I do not want to go into the direction of thought in them, but because a choice is already made in advance. With this I have outlined the background to the assessment of the various motions. The Karabulut motion in part No. 187 is already in the category I have just mentioned. This motion already calls for a different model of distribution. I have already said that this option has already been explicitly and extensively considered. I would like to question municipalities again critically on this point, but I will not presort on the outcome. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u203	The motion does not request any prior sorting. It calls for consultation with a view to achieving a more balanced distribution. That does not mean that the outcome is already established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u204	In any case, the motion calls for a different system of distribution. That's too fast for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u205	No, the motion calls for consultation in order to look for other options. I understand from the Minister's answers to all kinds of parliamentary questions that he finds it interesting. He has also said that we have been working on this, but I am going to talk about it again and will look seriously at it again. I would say that the motion should be seen as support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u206	I read a part of the motion:'says that not only the size of a municipality should play a role in the distribution of former refugees with a residence permit'. It says, "speaks that." So I'm not being asked to look again. This motion pre-sorts on the outcome. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u207	I see Mrs Karabulut walking to the interrupting microphone, but we will continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u208	In the Karabulut motion in part No. 188 calls on the government to stop the sale and liberalisation of social housing. I have already indicated that this consideration is being made in the performance agreements at local level. I think it is very unwise to ban this in a general sense. That's why I have to discourage the motion. In the Karabulut motion in part No. 189 is asked to exempt housing corporations from the landlord's tax in places where the housing shortage is greatest. I have already indicated that the gloomy forecasts on the impact of the landlord levy on investment capacity have not been made. What if you did this? It is possible that you will then give a douceur to a corporation with a firm financial position that is in a municipality with a tight housing market, without needing it. Considering everything, I must also discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u209	With your permission, Mr President, I would like to return to the motion on part No. 187. I understand the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u210	I'm not giving you permission, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u211	I'd like to amend the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u212	I suggest you do that outside the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u213	Well, then, I'd like the Minister's opinion. When I say "spoken"...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u214	I have given you the opportunity to ask twice about the verdict on the motion. I'm asking the Minister to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u215	If an amended motion is tabled, I will respond in writing, as is customary. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde asked whether you could not further refine the distribution of urgency in the housing system, for example with the criterion of having a job. In fact, he asked for economic reasons to be included. That option is definitely negotiable. That's one of the things you have to put on the table in the same platform. This concerns the question of whether you should add an additional criterion, namely having a job. That is an economic necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u216	Mr Madlener and Mr Koolmees are right behind me in this regard. Can we agree with the Minister that there will be a letter about that? Then we'll have a good talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u217	I have already promised to report on the findings in the platform before 1 November. The possibility of such a differentiation according to economic necessity, having a job, I will take with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u219	I come to Mr Madlener's motion, which states that the waiting lists for social housing are rising enormously. I have gone into detail about the fact that no waiting lists are kept. I can neither endorse nor deny that statement. Mr Madlener asks the government to close the borders, but that is such a silly move for a country that is dependent on free movement and trade that I must discourage that motion. I still owe Mrs Karabulut an answer on a statement by Mr Verhagen. Mr Verhagen often makes nice, complicated statements. I had these checked out. I had already indicated that 18,000 homes were built by housing corporations in 2014. The number of 7 000 in a speech by Mr Verhagen was only encountered by my officials in a plea for an extension of the start-up loan. We have not been able to find another source for this figure, combined with Mr Verhagen. I come to Mr Voordewind's motions. In the first motion, in part No. 191, the government is invited to consult with Refugee work, VNG and others, to consider a number of options for private reception, such as screening, tax consequences, regulation and possible financial compensation. I have indicated that I will discuss the promotion of private care with parties. Mr Voordewind will not be surprised that I have reservations about everything that has financial implications. I don't just have a bag of money for that. On that note, I can leave the motion for a resolution to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u220	I'm surprised at this. The reason that refugees in Hungary do not want to stay in Hungary, but want to go to Germany, relates to the enormous aphrodisiac effect of all this. Does the Minister realize that, if he leaves the opinion on this motion to the Chamber, this could lead to an even greater influx of asylum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u221	That reasoning doesn't make any sense. These are people who have been granted status. They are located in the Netherlands and are strictly assessed. Those people are allowed to stay here for the next five years. During that period they look for living space and preferably for work. At the moment, these people generally rely on social housing. This leads to the problem we are discussing today. Mr Voordewind proposed that we consider whether it would be possible to reduce the pressure on the social housing stock by involving private individuals, in this case not professional individuals either. I think that is an option worth exploring, with the remark that I do not just have the financial space. It has no adverse effects on the appeal of the Netherlands to people looking for another country of residence. In the motion in part No. 192 Mr Voordewind asked the government to investigate co-housing among residential researchers, to make this possible in the short term and to report on this to the House for the examination of the Housing and National Service budget. Here I also come to the consideration that I made at the beginning. It is an option that I will seriously examine, but which is already pre-empting the outcome. Moreover, there is such a rapid pace that I cannot promise it for that reason either. This way, I'll have to dissuade the motion. Should the motion be reworded in the vein of "research it in the Platform," it will become enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u222	The question then is whether it is the deadline the Minister is against. I would like to go along with that, but then I would like to hear from the Minister a date on which the Chamber can be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u223	If it can go to the Monasch date of November 1st, I'll be able to report on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u224	The Minister can understand the motion in this way. I assume that with this explanation we do not need to amend the motion further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u225	Then I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I think that the Ronnes/Vordewind motion in part No. 193 a linguistic correction is still needed, since the government is now being asked to assume 0.3 per-house residences in the housing policy of residents. Fortunately, it is the other way around, but Mr Ronnes had seen it himself. This motion, too, falls under the category of'serious option to explore, but really too early to say now that it should be'. It has consequences, of course, to put only three single men in one house. I don't want to rule it out in advance. It may well be that in a while we will conclude that it is possible, but the motion is too pre-sorted. For this reason, I would like to discourage its adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u226	Let me make a point of order. Is it intended that this linguistic change should be taken on board orally, or should we change the motion in writing afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u227	It's best if you do that in writing through the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u228	With the Ronnes motion in part No. 194 the government is explicitly asked, in the Platform Once again Home to appoint the displacement among house seekers as a task field, and to inform the Chamber about the results. For me, this too falls under the category "already scorching up what the Platform is about to chop its buttons". There are several parties at the table. It has all my attention, but this motion too is too pre-ordered for me. That is why I must now discourage its adoption. Mr Ronnes explained his point about the private landlords and pointed to the large number of 100,000 rentals released annually and owned by private landlords. With this explanation, I would like to say to him that this is also part of my consultation and feedback on this issue. In the Monasch motion in part No. 195 invites the government, together with municipalities, landlords, builders and other stakeholders, to come forward with a plan of action in the short term, preferably within one month of the migration summit. I have indicated that, if I may interpret this as before 1 November, I would like to leave the judgment on this motion to Chamber. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u229	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. The Minister promised that, should a motion be changed in substance, he would be prepared to respond in writing before that time.
