ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u1	I would like to welcome all those present. I would particularly like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. He hasn't been in office for seven days, but he's already allowed to appear in the Chamber on Thursday night. He has even been here for the second time this week, because he has already spoken during Question Time. Eleven Members have spoken for this debate. Each group shall have a maximum of six minutes' speaking time. During an interruption, one question and a maximum of one follow-up question may be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. On Sunday evening, a plan of the VVD was brought into the world during the NOS Journal. The VVD wants to tackle the urgent and heartbreaking problems surrounding the drowning refugees in the Mediterranean. It is good that the VVD Group says it wants to solve this very urgent problem. However, it is an unprecedented opportunism and it is appallingly shameful that the VVD wants to do so by completely closing the European borders to these refugees. Arnon Grunberg expressed the lack of logic in the Volkskrant as follows: people die in the hospital, so we close all hospitals, because then no one dies in the hospital. Mr Azmani said at Nieuwsuur that the VVD does not want to stand idly by while people drown in the Mediterranean. If he really meant that statement, then he must also go ahead and not stand on shore with a virtually unfeasible and morally unacceptable proposal in his hand. Then he must join, for example, GroenLinks' proposal to return from Frontex's border surveillance to a mission like Mare Nostrum was. With such a mission, we must use our EU-wide efforts to save refugees in the Mediterranean. Then Mr Azmani must join our proposal to tackle the core of the problem: more money for diplomatic engagement in conflicts in the world, more development aid and more support for unstable and economically weak countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u3	I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Voortman on the fact that, in response to the VVD's plan, she has come up with her own plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u4	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u5	Part of her plan is to go back to an operation similar to Mare Nostrum. How does it intend to prevent people from drowning in the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u6	The mission Mare Nostrum ensured that 150,000 refugees did not drown and were rescued. That's the kind of mission that saves people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u7	Is Mrs Voortman aware that during the operation Mare Nostrum, which took place last year, 3,000 people drowned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u8	It's terrible that 3,000 people drowned last year. That's why we need to get that mission Mare Nostrum back. As far as I'm concerned, that mission is coming back, and it's being reinforced. I think you're offering a real solution. That's not the solution you're offering with the VVD's proposals. That doesn't prevent people from doing everything they can to escape their country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u9	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u10	It is clear that GroenLinks, unlike the VVD, does not believe in a Europe surrounded by high fences and barbed wire. GroenLinks has now presented a counter-proposal as an alternative to the dead end that the VVD seems to want to take. There are five proposals to tackle the emergency situation of smuggling and drowning refugees in the Mediterranean. We do this in a social and humanitarian way. I hope today that other parties will support these proposals so that we can really get to work on tackling this emergency. For we cannot do nothing; Mr Azmani has a point there. GroenLinks proposes to make it possible to apply for asylum at embassies again in special or poignant circumstances. Since 2003, the possibilities for doing so have been limited. It is very undesirable that this possibility is barely available. Indeed, illegal migration is mainly caused by a lack of legal migration routes. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, so-called "protected entry procedures" could be organised in two ways. The option in the short term is to allow refugees to apply for a humanitarian visa at our embassies in crisis areas, in order to be able to apply for asylum in the Netherlands. The second option is a longer-term option. It should be ensured at EU level that refugees can apply to EU ambassadors for a European resettlement programme for the most vulnerable refugees. The three main advantages of this proposal are firstly that refugees do not have to make a dangerous journey through such a programme with the help of smugglers of human beings and secondly that people who are too weak to escape to a safe place themselves, such as pregnant women and older people, can be helped. Mr Azmani also said in Nieuwsuur that he thought it unfair for the EU to invest so much in the care of people who come to the EU in relation to people who cannot do so. So I'm counting on his warm support. Thirdly, we can thus achieve a fairer distribution of refugees between EU countries, where border countries, in particular, are currently at a high capacity shortage. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at these two options. Fortunately, there is one point in our plan that is consistent with the VVD's plan. We very much agree with the VVD that more investment is needed in reception in the region. The reception in crisis regions, as at the borders of Syria, is appalling. UNHCR reports imminent food shortages. We must therefore help these countries to provide decent shelter and basic facilities for people who have fled violence. As far as we are concerned, additional structural funds must be made available, but this must not be at the expense of the development cooperation budget. In the Netherlands, please, let's not be from the cigar department out of our own box. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the cabinet is prepared to make additional funds available for reception in its own region under the next budget? I'd like a response. Mr Azmani said it last Sunday, the summer is coming and we have to fear that more people are going to take the crossing via shaky boats. It is therefore important that we take action now and not wait until, for example, another cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u11	GroenLinks' plan indeed contains a number of elements that correspond to the VVD plan. I'm happy about that. On one part, I would like to ask for clarification, namely through embassies. I see big IND offices in every country in front of me. Is that the statue? Then there is still an opportunity to apply for asylum in Europe, and-and so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u12	That is a possibility that existed until 2003. Perhaps Mr Azmani remembers that from the period when he himself worked at the IND. These are vulnerable refugees. They should be able to make such an application. You don't force people to come to EU countries. I think such a route allows people to choose a legal route instead of an illegal one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u13	Suppose you want to do it and make it accessible to everyone. Currently, 51.2 million people are fleeing or displaced. In fact, GroenLinks states with the plan that she is okay with 51.2 million people flowing into Europe through the embassies. Then I would say to GroenLinks: just make the proposal, place a physical walkway between Africa and Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u14	I'm really gonna distance myself from that. I have already indicated that we are dealing with distressing situations. I would like to take the opportunity to note that I firmly distance myself from the word "happiness seekers" that the VVD uses in its note, as if people who flee war and violence, come here to seek happiness!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u15	Mr. Chairman. As we speak here, conflicts plague the world. As we speak here, people around the world are being persecuted for their faith, orientation or political belief. As we speak here, millions of people, families with children, are fleeing torture, persecution or murder. The Netherlands must continue to offer these victims of the many conflicts in the world a safe haven. The vast majority of these refugees are taken care of in the region, in camps, including Lebanon and Turkey. Fortunately, the Netherlands is making an important financial contribution to this. At the same time, thousands of people die every year in the Mediterranean. Trafficking in human beings has become a billion-dollar business. €5,000 for a crossing with 300 other people on a boat too small will give a smuggler 1.5 million per boat. Many refugees do not have the opportunity or the means to find a safe escape in another way. So there really is a huge problem that only Europe can solve together. It is not a new problem, by the way. This has been the subject of discussion in Europe for decades, with no result. The horror in Lampedusa of October 2013, where over 300 refugees drowned in the Mediterranean, was not a one-off disaster. All reason to look at real solutions. We do not want to close the borders, as the VVD wants. We want to cut people smugglers off, but not by banning refugees in the Netherlands or Europe. We would like to see how we can find solutions. In May, the European Commission will present a vision on migration. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, the government must use the following measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u16	Mr Schouw, were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u17	Were you ready, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u18	I'm sure, but I wasn't sure you wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u19	I didn't quite get that impression, but now that we're both ready...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u20	...you'd like to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u21	My group has been informed through the media, and I would just like to make sure that that is true, that the Labour Party and the VVD would jointly present the plan of action, but that they did not come out at some point. Is it true that you wanted to do that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u22	At some point, we sat together to see how we should shape the agenda to solve this huge problem of migration and asylum in Europe. However, with the solution that the VVD has now presented in its plan, its vision, we could not unite. This also means that we have not worked together on drawing up a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u23	I think that is very sensible from the PvdA Group. Only, after reading the letter from the new Secretary of State today and after reading Mr Azmani's report, I came to the conclusion that there are a lot of similarities. My conclusion is actually that it is 90%, 95% of those seven pages of the VVD cabinet policy, with the exception of the sentence "This means that in principle we only offer European refugees asylum in Europe." That's the big difference. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u24	You and the CDA have made a motion in which you have just taken out the points that support what we do want with each other, or at least partly. We share part of the analysis and of the solutions, but not all solutions. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we must also come up with solutions ourselves. We are thinking of the following measures. We must, of course, stabilise conflict areas and combat poverty, the sources of misery. We need to expand the Frontex operations: not only border surveillance, but also rescue and provide assistance. There must be better quality reception in the region with adequate protection, precisely with the aim of reducing the need for flights. Make sure that all European countries assume their responsibilities, something that will be quite a challenge. We need to explore more forms of legal migration and resettlement. Finally, we must opt for a firm approach and more persecution of smugglers. Europol must be given much more power and can be tried at European level. Think of freezing funds and depriving funds and perhaps even prosecuting them by the ICC, because sometimes it is also about atrocities against humanity. People are forced into the sea in harsh weather conditions. We must try to make agreements with countries around us, such as Turkey and Morocco, on the points I mentioned. It is not just a European asylum policy, but an asylum policy that is also supported by the countries that are transiting for many refugees coming here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u25	Those are good plans from the Labour Party. One concerns the extension of resettlement policy. Mrs Kuik probably already feels my question coming: we have tabled a joint motion on this matter. It wasn't carried out by the cabinet. Then we submitted it again, but then we lost the support of the Labour Party. But now the content of that motion is in the plans of the Labour Party. Maybe we can retable that motion together. In any case, we will then be able to extend the resettlement policy by 250 refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u26	I believe that we also agreed at that time that later in the year we will look at how we are dealing with the possibility for the Netherlands to move towards additional resettlement. We're gonna do that 500 anyway. The time is not now, but I think it is a good question to ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u27	I think it's a good question, too. I will put it to the cabinet as well, but you are now standing there as the representative of the Labour Party. We had filed that motion together before. The Labour Party issues a business card, namely closing the external borders...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u28	You mean the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u29	The VVD, sorry. I hope that the Labour Party will really send a different signal in this debate, namely that it could be a solution to extend the whole resettlement policy much more, so that people are not forced into the hands of those traffickers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u30	I am making proposals here which I would like to include in the proposals that will be submitted to the European Commission. That's in May. We agreed to see if there would be room for more resettlement later this year. Basically, I'm open to that. At the moment, you must ask what the Secretary of State is like about that idea and perhaps Mr Azmani too. There was also room for resettlement in his plans. Mr. Chairman. With the proposals I have now made, I do not pretend to be able to solve the major asylum issue once and for all. I am also sceptical about what the European Commission is going to come up with. As long as there are conflicts and inequality in the world, people continue to cross the Mediterranean. It begins with the fact that all European countries take their responsibilities together and show courage, and sometimes dare to take a step forward over their own shadow, so that they can at least make a start on a solution. Closing Europe to people fleeing war can never be a solution. Not because international treaties do not allow it, but simply because we remember why we have ever reached those agreements at all and because we feel the moral duty to be and remain a safe haven for those who need it. The VVD is entitled to its vision, but at the same time it is clear that this will not be a cabinet policy. However, I am concerned about the unintended effects that will be created again. It gives air and nourishment to sentiments such as "full is full" and "less, less." My mailbox is flooded with these kinds of messages. I sometimes look almost desperately for a vote against this sentiment. I do not think that we in Europe should go that way. The Labour Party wants to continue to work to ensure that Europe and the Netherlands continue to fight for and believe in solidarity and tolerance, even if it is sometimes a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u31	That's nicely put. Mrs. Kuik hits the nail on the head. It is fishing in turbid waters, as Mr Azmani does, and with great ease, because he knows that it is not a cabinet policy and that there is no majority for it. He's gonna go through with it for a while, I think. I have the following question to the Labour Party. The Labour Party can, of course, do the same. Where the VVD moves to the right, when it comes to asylum policy, the Labour Party can also move away from this coalition and do so to the left, because on the left there is a majority in this Chamber to make policy more humane, better and more social. What the VVD Group is doing now, playing outside the coalition, is the Labour Party planning to do the same? She can count on the support of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u32	I'm just thinking about the answer, because it's a question with multiple loads. You ask me if I'm going to go free, but I'm part of this coalition and I want to stick to the coalition agreement. Where necessary and desirable, we will make our own proposals. I've done the same with the plans as I see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u33	I might need to touch it a little bit more. The entire VVD group says: we are going to close Europe to refugees from outside. She thinks so, and she keeps shouting it, while anyone who knows a little bit about it knows it can't be done. She calls that out, because that is what she finds electorally interesting. The Labour Party can really get something done now, because there is now a majority in the Chamber to push asylum policy a little more in the social direction. Wouldn't it make sense for the Labour Party to stand up, come up with proposals of this kind and see if it could find a majority for that, outside of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u34	I assume that Mr Schouw does not mean that I have to come up with unacceptable, nonsensical proposals, which are then burned down throughout the world. What my predecessor and I have always done over the past two years is to look for good proposals, sometimes within the coalition agreement and sometimes in addition to the coalition agreement. I'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u35	In that case, I do have a proposal for Mrs. Kuik. Mr Azmani interrupted me just when I was talking about the Mare Nostrum mission, which focuses on the rescue of refugees. I wonder what the Labour Party is like in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u36	I mentioned that as one of my measures. But indeed, I think we should go to a Frontex operation that is not only about border control, but also about providing help and care to the refugees, who are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u37	I am glad to hear that, because the Frontex mission is now focused on border guarding. We believe that saving refugees should also be an important part of this. It's nice that we can find each other in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u38	In the interrupting debate with Mr Schouw, Mrs Kuik mentioned the movement of Buma, Pechtold and Van der Staaij. I ask her if the Labour Party is prepared to support that motion. I also ask this because the VVD has now indicated that it will support the motion, now that it has been amended to make the Secretary of State the coordinator of policy and information through the JHA Council. I therefore ask Mrs Kikkie whether her group is prepared to support this motion, for which the support is becoming ever wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u39	That's what I'm going to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u40	Since Mrs Kuik came to the end of her speech, I would like to ask her the following question. Last week we had no Secretary of State; then this Secretary of State was still in the VVD Group. A question that has been burning on my lips for a long time is to what extent the current Secretary of State was aware of all this. Mr Azmani probably didn't come up with that plan entirely on his own and submitted it. What kind of feeling does Mrs Kuik get from the Labour Party group about the fact that there is a new, new Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who is responsible for asylum policy and who comes directly from the group in which a plan has been brewed that at least puts my neck hairs on end and, if I understand words like 'unacceptable' and 'unacceptable', so does Mrs Kuik?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u41	I've been mainly concerned with what I thought about it and what I felt about it; not so much with what the new Secretary of State felt about it. You really should ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u42	I can guess. He came from that group. The VVD Group was unanimous on this; at least I have not heard any dissidents yet. In the meantime, he has taken his place in this cabinet. I would therefore ask you once again what the Labour Party's group thinks of the fact that a new Secretary of State for Security and Justice may have been involved in such a plan, which is not at all in line with my view of the world and, in my view, not in the PvdA's, whereas the Secretary of State must now implement asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u43	We agree. I think the Secretary of State has indicated that he didn't type a letter of it. But again, ask him this. It is not for me to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u44	I would also like to put a question to Mrs Kuik. I have heard her plea for any proposals to improve the process. How does it intend to prevent people with money from making the crossing when they are victims of the smuggling industry? How does she intend to prevent these human tragedies in the Mediterranean? How does she intend to prevent this unregulated power? I do not hear these things very well in Mrs Kuik's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u45	I have mentioned a large number of measures. Without wishing to be complete or very specific, let me mention two measures that are likely to appeal to you. I am thinking of "tough on crime," so tackling people smugglers harder and firmer. We're giving Europol a position in this. We want to bring European justice and freeze assets. We make agreements with countries where things are now taking place on a large scale. Libya is difficult, but with Turkey and Morocco we can make such agreements. In addition, we try to reach good agreements with the transit countries. Some of them are already catching people. Turkey is already doing so and we can also try to make agreements with Morocco. We can also agree on how to deal with transit. Once again, these measures have not yet been fully developed, but I can see what they mean. I am not concerned about policy being boundless. I have difficulty with the VVD-story, because with it the Netherlands closes its eyes to its own responsibility to receive refugees. There is also a common responsibility in Europe to receive refugees. I don't want to ward off refugees. I am looking for ways of monitoring immigration flows and keeping them manageable. We have one common goal, namely to cut off the smugglers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u46	I have every respect for Mrs. Chicken. I understand the PvdA wants to do its best to tackle human trafficking. I understand she wants to do her best to save people's lives. Mrs Kuik therefore has to agree with me that the ultimate result is that no one drowns in the Mediterranean and that no one is a victim of the smuggling industry anymore. The poor remain in the region. That's the bulk of it. Only the people with money make the crossing anyway. The PvdA will keep the process going. She's trying to improve it, but she's keeping it going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u47	I do not pretend that we can prevent any more victims from being killed or that no one will cross that road anymore. I hope that the VVD does not have the pretence that this will be the case with its plan. We choose a different approach. We have a different vision. I believe that the Netherlands has a responsibility and that the European countries have a responsibility. Closing boundaries is not the answer. It's also morally incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mr. Chairman. The analysis and suggestions in the VVD note, apart from the idea of closing the EU's external borders, are not new. The CDA Group has already made concrete proposals on the turbulent summer of 2014. Millions of people were made refugees by the war in Iraq and Syria. The CDA has proposed a status of displaced persons. Moreover, the CDA has for a long time stressed the need for careful registration and strict controls at the Greek and Italian borders. The former Secretary of State swept away the CDA's plans. He said they weren't necessary. After last weekend's VVD note, there is now this debate. This note was not officially filed in the Chamber. The solutions in this note are basically empty cries, because Mr Azmani cannot ensure that borders are closed. Last Tuesday an interesting debate took place in the Chamber on this subject, following the motion of the CDA, D66 and the SGP. This motion called on the Prime Minister to coordinate a new common asylum system within the framework of the EU Presidency in 2016. The Prime Minister does not want to be responsible for this and leaves it to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State responded this afternoon to the measures requested in the motion. The conclusion is that everything is already existing policy. The question is whether this is true. The motion calls for concrete agreements to ensure safe ports for the reception of refugees in the region. The CDA Group is asking the government this evening what specific agreements are currently in place. The motion states that a system for the resettlement of refugees should be put in place, on invitation and in extreme situations. The Secretary of State says this is standing policy. That is special, because the introduction of a system indicates a change in the current system. The motion proposed a migration system based on a combination of a point system and a system in which employers can attract migrants. The government said "standing policy," referring to the rules in force, which, however, was not designed in a so-called point system. In addition, the elements of this motion are identical to the action points in the VVD note, except for the total closure of the EU external borders. The Secretary of State has today written to the Chamber that the measures contained in Mr Van Haersma Buma's motion are policies standing. Does the Secretary of State say that the memorandum of the VVD, in addition to closing the EU borders, is also a stand-alone policy? What measures does the Secretary of State consider necessary in addition to existing policies to achieve the ideal of the VVD for all EU external borders to be closed? How realistic and feasible does the Secretary of State consider both these complementary measures and the eventual closure of all EU borders? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Over the last two years, the increased influx of asylum seekers into Europe has unfailingly revealed that the creation of a common European asylum system does not come about. There is no commonality. Illustration remains the Mare Nostrum rescue operation, in which Italy captured more than 150,000 refugees from the sea, but only recorded some 30,000; the rest got a free pass in Europe. The CDA Group called on the government in June 2014 to ask the European Commission to launch an investigation into the continuing serious deficiencies in the Italian authorities' surveillance at the external borders. The VVD Group then voted against this motion. How does the Secretary of State look at the way in which, among other things, the Italian authorities guard the external borders? How does he look at the plan launched by the Italians this week to outsource Mediterranean patrols to countries such as Egypt and Tunisia? What is the government's position on the Italian proposal for reception centres for asylum seekers in the transit countries? In order to improve the Common Asylum System, it is also important that Member States comply with their commitments, implement directives and actually implement them. In this context, the CDA Group asks the State Secretary for an assessment of EU Directive 2001/55/EC. This Directive has been established following the Bosnia and Kosovo crisis and allows the Council of the European Union to establish temporary protection for certain groups for a certain period of time. What does the Secretary of State think about the usefulness of this directive? According to the CDA Group, this directive demonstrates that the legal instruments for effective cooperation within the EU are in part already in place in times of increased influx. The CDA Group refers to Article 33 of the Dublin Agreement, which allows for a crisis response. So, what's going on? This directive has not yet been used once, and it could not have been used immediately in 2015. In Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Malta, Poland and Slovenia I am done with this directive has not even been fully implemented. The CDA Group informed the previous Secretary of State about the implementation of EU directives in other countries. The results were staggering. Many directives must have been implemented by EU Member States for years, but that simply does not seem to have happened. Is the Secretary of State prepared to put this item on the agenda at the next JHA Council? The CDA Group has long advocated more effective and intensified border controls, especially in the Mediterranean areas where the problems have accumulated for two years. The CDA Group wants more clarification on how Frontex has operated and can be strengthened in the future. Can the Secretary of State comment on the status of the European surveillance system, Eurosur? In doing so, Frontex aims to detect and analyse migratory flows, save drownings and at the same time fight crime. Are the budgets allocated to Frontex sufficient? Can the Secretary of State comment on the possibilities of strengthening the EU Asylum Support Agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u49	I think it is good that the CDA Group has already included in a motion a number of measures in the plan put forward by the VVD. I am very curious about one point: the status of displaced persons. I have noticed this point in the past and Mr Oskam has brought it up again today. How can the status of displaced persons solve the social problems we face?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u50	Of course, it is not always a solution to the problems with the current asylum policy, but the point is that this will allow people to temporarily get here, that we can take in people in times of need and that we can also give them some certainty about their stay. So I think it is good for the people who get such a status to know that they can stay here temporarily, during that status, but this measure alone does not, of course, solve the problems with asylum policy. Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u51	Do I understand that the CDA also believes that we need to invest in safe ports in the region, in safe third countries, in order to ultimately achieve a lower influx in Europe? May I draw that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u52	You can draw that conclusion, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u53	Mr. Chairman. We are meeting tonight, and that is not to discuss a proposal from the cabinet, but to discuss a piece of work by a diligent MP. I congratulate him on this, because it is not often that a Thursday evening is devoted to it. We'll talk about it again on Wednesday. That's good, too, because matter deserves it. There has also been diligent work on the paper. We heard Mr Azmani on television. He said: I, well I, the group worked on it for a year. A year! It is, of course, fantastic that this has been compressed into seven pages of which six and a half are filled with standing cabinet policy, as we can actually conclude after reading the letter from today's cabinet. So it is quite an achievement that this has succeeded. At least an explosive sentence has been added to the standing cabinet policy. It is mid-page 7 and says: "This means that in principle we only offer European refugees asylum in Europe." That is also a bit the mantra including the VVD group that sold that note. Here's what I'm wondering. Why has it taken a year to embroider that one sentence in a piece that actually contains cabinet policy? Mr President, I would ask you to do so through the cabinet and through the cabinet to Mr Azmani. Why was it chosen to further elaborate that sentence without any explanation? Everyone here and also the outside world thinks that you can't do that because of all kinds of legal treaties and states, but the VVD thinks so. I am very much looking forward to Mr Azmani's contribution to explaining this. After all, that was still lacking. I regret that: if you have worked on it for a year and then it hasn't come through completely. There has been enough emphasis over the last few days on what is wrong with the one sentence of the VVD Group which proposes to close the European borders. As one of our newspapers summarized it quite brilliantly, it is'morally dubious, politically unrealistic, administratively impossible and legally unthinkable'. Of course, it is not entirely wrong what was said about that. On the other hand, that does not mean that it is not good to raise this issue and strengthen the debate. That is why the groups of CDA, D66 and SGP also come forward with a motion to perhaps tighten things up a bit. Of course, the Secretary of State is here for a reason. So we're about to question him nicely about how he was involved in that study of a year within the VVD group and the positioning of that sentence. The Secretary of State was here this week and he also responded to that plan by saying that this is not his plan. My group felt it was very sensible for the new Secretary of State to say so. However, as regards the implementation of this plan, the Secretary of State stated that if parties in the Chamber call for this by means of a motion and that motion obtains a majority, then of course the Cabinet will do so. That's a pretty dumb statement from this secretary of state. Of course, it is not the case that when a motion reaches a majority in the Chamber, the cabinet always carries out that motion. After all, the cabinet always makes its own decisions. I see the Secretary of State nodding. I have to correct him a little bit on that point too. If the Secretary of State's advisers come to the conclusion that such a motion is not enforceable because of all kinds of international treaties, then the Cabinet simply cannot carry it out either. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to reflect on his first and some impulsive remarks on this subject last Tuesday. If this phrase from the VVD Group's plan is included in a motion and there is a majority in favour of it, would the cabinet really implement it? I would like to say a few words about the motion. We are discussing an important subject here tonight. In fact, I also think that the VVD group should supply butter to the fish in relation to that explosive remark in order to close Europe to refugees from outside Europe. It should not be a matter of a non-binding remark. It should not be the case that next week, next month or in six months a new note from the VVD group should be published with that phrase again. I actually want to get rid of that. That can be very simple. Mr Azmani knows that too. I call on him to include that phrase in a motion and to have that motion put to the vote shortly. Then we will be off the subject at once, because that motion is not going to make it. Then the subject is dead and buried and then Mr Azmani can stop his unrealistic plan. I fear that if we do not do this in this way, we will only suffer from it in the future. I say to Mrs Kuik that this leads to a lot of unrest and hassle. You shouldn't have that with proposals that aren't actually feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u54	Mr Schouw talks all the time about that one sentence about closing the borders of the European Union. But then he fails Mr Azmani's plan. Does Mr Schouw really think that that one sentence is the only objectionable part of the VVD's plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u55	I refer to the letter we received today from the cabinet. A lot of the proposals contained in the so-called VVD plan are cabinet policy. We have also discussed this with each other in recent years. We have seen this in all the meetings on asylum and JHA, on the reception of refugees in the region, on a close network at the external borders and so on. We've talked about all that stuff. Mrs. Voortman was there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u56	I am concerned about the broader analysis presented in the note. I am talking, for example, about the sentences about dislocation of society and about happiness seekers. There is talk of more and more lucky seekers reaching the country. Those are things that are part of this plan, aren't they? I assume that the D66 Group is also trying to keep away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u57	Those words have been used to arouse interest in a disruptive proposal. I'm fine with you using words in an analysis. Everyone can do that, but I am concerned with the specific proposals: what is being proposed here? If you look closely at it, you can see that 90% is overwritten. After all, it is cabinet policy. And just that one sentence was stolen from the PVV's candy store, otherwise it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u58	In the spirit of Mr Schouw's speech, I would like to ask the following. Is Mr Schouw a type that recycles business?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u59	I think you should repeat your question, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u60	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's a difficult question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u61	It's probably a difficult question. Is Mr Schouw someone who does recycling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u62	Re-use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u63	Yeah, to reuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u64	In general, I do. At home we separate paper, gft waste and all kinds of other things that we think we can use well in the context of the sustainable cycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u65	That's what I thought. Then it is also nice to notice that something that is thrown in a trash can is immediately removed and made into his.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u66	I thought there must have been some sensitivity with Mr Azmani. I have to explain my words. That horrible sentence in the piece of work or... Pamphlet is, of course, very reprehensible. It causes a great deal of unrest in society, and at the same time it is not feasible. Everyone knows that. Why is the largest political group in this Chamber going to make such a proposal, when every sane person knows that it is not feasible? Something like that deserves to be thrown in the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u67	Mr. Chairman. The debate we are having tonight has actually proved superfluous, since Tuesday evening the Prime Minister has already said here in box K: it is not a cabinet policy, it does not fit into cabinet policy and we are not going to implement it in this way. So the cabinet doesn't like the VVD plan. We are already having a debate on the number of asylum seekers next week. Mr Fritsma has already requested this. The debate we are having tonight on the Azmani plan, as I will just mention, is a little too much honour in my view. I thought I could make that clear from Mr Schouw's undertone. I especially see it as a rather hot lure to the PVV constituency. As is the case with hotness, the call is mainly aimed at the lower abdomen. That's a bad thing, first of all, because with such a plan, you scare the hell out of me. The note speaks of refugees who, I quote literally, really would come up with hundreds of thousands at the same time. I imagine thousands a day. The actual number for 2014 was 30,000. That is high, because for years the number has been around 12,000 and for years it has been even less. The fact that it is now higher makes sense, because the Syrian fireplace is not too far from here. The VVD states that this is untenable, which is not true. For years there were, on balance, more people from non-western countries returning to their native countries than new people from those countries. Secondly, in my view, the note is also a misconception of history. After all the horrors of the Second World War, international decisions have been taken not to leave people to their fate in such a way. People had to be able to flee somewhere, whether they were Christians, Jews or Muslims. Whether they are black or white, whether they are persecuted for their race or their faith; people are people, European or not, and they remain people. Of this principle, the VVD seems to want to abandon, just now, in times of wars that, because of their nature and size, make so many millions of people flee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u68	With all due respect to Mrs. Gesthuizen, I expected her to have read the note a little better. What is the reason for the FVO's desire to deduct the hands of the Refugee Convention or the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u69	Then I really should have gotten it all wrong. I am really under the impression that Mr Azmani has written down in his memo: Europe is only for European refugees. That means that you are going to make a distinction between people, which is impossible when you look at the international treaties. That's what I was talking about. So I do not see how you could implement Mr Azmani's note without giving up several treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u70	Mrs. Gesthuizen has been on this file for a while. I know her as someone who knows the subject well in terms of content and law. Mrs Gesthuizen also knows that the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights are mainly aimed at preventing refoulement, returning to countries where people are in real danger of inhuman treatment or where they have to fear persecution. That is the right of protection under these conventions. Why then put the VVD on the spot that it would like to cancel the Refugee Convention, or that the VVD would not take responsibility for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u71	Firstly, because I seem to belong to a large group of people in this country who have understood this: the VVD wants to get rid of the Refugee Convention. The point that stays standing is this. I myself deliberately did not mention the Refugee Convention, because I never find it so brave to say: it can't be done anyway, so what you think doesn't matter. You are entitled to that opinion, I tell you, Mr President, to Mr Azmani and the VVD Group, but you do distinguish between people of European origin and people who are not. My group simply cannot justify this. Thirdly, the report does not mention the responsibility of all countries, anywhere in the world, for preventing refugee flows. The foreign policy pursued by the Netherlands in recent decades has often been ill-considered. I refer to the consequences of improper military intervention, arms exports and unfair trading conditions. No matter how many times, the trade spirit didn't go for the awareness of ethics. However, there is an important part of the real solution. Anyone who wants to put an end to migratory flows, as Mrs Kuik said, must show integrity in terms of, for example, military foreign policy, international trade and fair sharing worldwide. It is striking that the parties PVV and VVD, who are always the first to call for borders to be closed, are also the parties who feel the least in favour of fair trade agreements. They are already getting their noses out for more money for development aid. Their true nature is "I really can't help but say "Just pure and pure selfishness." Don't share anything fair. Everything is for those who are rich and those who are poor can choke. Fourthly and finally, anyone who reads the report almost gets the impression that it is the VVD to do to that poor migrant. It would be better off without dangerous crossing, without human smugglers, close to home in a less developed country, more at migrant level. In Lebanon, which I visited myself in January, at least one in four people is Syrian. There are many hundreds of thousands of people in camps in Turkey, and there are still many of them every day. In Kenya there are 470,000 people in refugee camp Dadaab, which has been around for 23 years. That's Kenya's third city. That's a refugee flow you're telling! That brings with it risks, in terms of security, in terms of economics, but also in terms of the possibility of overcoming the conflict! I would just like to say, Mr President, that 80% of refugees worldwide are being taken care of in their own region. 90% of refugees worldwide are received by third world countries, by countries where there is already a great deal of poverty. And those countries are now being summoned by Mr Azmani in this shameful piece of paper to give all those refugees within their borders just a residence permit. I told you, there's one thing about the VVD and the PVV: as long as it's not our problem. So cynicism is on the rise. Back to the time before the Second World War, with the VVD and the PVV that stir up the fear of ordinary people. Fear I can imagine very well, of people who are concerned about their own safety and their children. I see that as the great danger of this time. I haven't congratulated the Secretary of State on his new position. I am doing this with all my heart. Since I do like asking him a question, I am not going to ask him about the view of the Labour Party, because he cannot give it to me. I'll ask him if he's up for his new job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u72	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the VVD's asylum plan and therefore about a blank. It's about a missed opportunity and disdain for the voter. This is made by the VVD again happy with a dead sparrow. The VVD excels in false promises and you'd think it's time to stop. The €1,000 that every working Dutchman would get back, the mortgage interest deduction that would stand as a house, the statement that no more penny goes to the Greeks: lies, all of which are still fresh in memory. However, the party continues with this folklore and now adds the story of the dense borders for asylum seekers. Last Sunday the PVV had the hope that it would really go the right way with the VVD. If you say we're in some kind of alarm phase, where a lot of asylum seekers are headed this way, including terrorists who can blow up the case here, then you can reasonably expect the VVD to be serious this time. Then you expect the party to want tough measures quickly, to stop the disruption of society quickly. But what's happening? A day later, the cunt is withdrawn again. A day later it is said that the asylum plan is not being implemented. The PvdA doesn't want it. The VVD bends in front of the PvdA again and so nothing happens at all. What a wretched display and what a cowardice. Citizens have been told that the VVD wants to solve the asylum crisis. My group was keen to contribute to this and therefore embraced the VVD's plan. Despite the fact that elements of that plan are not in line with the PVV solutions, this was a very nice "second best" approach for us. We were eager to do business with the VVD, to achieve the goal of stopping the asylum influx. Instead, however, the VVD continues to implement the PvdA's open border policy. This has always been the case in the field of foreign affairs, think of the implementation of a new general pardon, think of sweeping off the table the criminalisation of illegality and so on. On all aspects of foreign policy, the PvdA is lord and master. The VVD's asylum plan is probably meant to cover all that up. It must hide the fact that immigration records are broken under the responsibility of the VVD just like never before. The PVV has no questions to the Secretary of State, because he also indicated last Tuesday that the asylum plan of the VVD is not being implemented. Previously, the leader of the VVD had said so and later the Prime Minister followed as a third with the same statement. You can't make it any clearer that the citizen was fooled with the VVD asylum plan. In short, this debate is only about a blank blank of the VVD, which was quickly blown out as far as the PVV is concerned. I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u73	Mr. Chairman. After this really crazy story by the PVV, which claims that blanks are being fired, I should like to start by saying that these blanks have been fired by Mr Fritsma and his group chairman for ten years. I'll start with a message. You don't become a fugitive for fun. You only do that when you have to, when you fear for your life in your own country. By leaving, a fugitive gives up everything. That takes courage, and it causes grief. So let us speak with respect about these people. We are not talking about abstractions, we are talking about people. When reading the migration plan, we were emotionally touched, but only in the beginning. It was written full of feelings about the human suffering around the refugee flows. Samia's story, what a tragedy. In 2014, more than 3,000 refugees drowned in the Mediterranean. The problem is enormous, we agree with the VVD. But when we read the solution, we got freezing cold. Suddenly it wasn't about human suffering anymore, but efficiency, point systems and stopping happiness seekers. There had to be a fence around the external borders of Europe; fortress Europe where people from outside the European borders are not welcome. Shocking, alien and unjust. Liberalism of the VVD is selective liberalism, in which the freedom of the happy few must be protected against people who also want their chance of freedom and prosperity. But walls and freedom don't go together. We have seen this in the Soviet Union, we have seen it in Germany at the Berlin Wall, we have seen it in China, and we now see it in Israel every day. We are dealing here with a double morale. Free trade with poor countries so that we can use their raw materials and their low wages, but close borders for people who fear for their lives. The business and the money, but not the problems. We live in a fundamentally unjust world, in which the proportions have flown completely from the bend. We believe that the Netherlands should not do less, but rather more for refugees. People fleeing war and violence must be able to count on the support of other countries, including European countries. We are committed to human asylum policy, decent reception and fair distribution in the Netherlands. Municipalities that do not want to contribute to this should be publicly addressed. We must not leave refugees in psychologically burdensome and cost-effective procedures. We must also do much more outside the Netherlands. The UNHCR report for 2013 shows that 90% of all refugees are being received in developing countries. While we are here complaining about a relatively small group of refugees, large flows of refugees go to the poorest countries in the world. The Netherlands should set an example, not do less, but much and much more. I've already congratulated the Secretary of State. Now that he is no longer part of the VVD Group, I would like to make an appeal to his address. Dare to think differently, dare to be righteous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u74	I have heard Mr Kuzu's speech. Does he agree with me that it is not fair that we invest many billions in the reception of such a small proportion of refugees worldwide and that this is a multiple compared to UNHCR's budget? Wouldn't it be much fairer if, with the euro we spend on reception in the Netherlands, we were much more effective for a larger group of refugees to provide adequate reception, perspective and a sustainable life?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u75	What would be fair is if the largest group in the Dutch Parliament were to comply with international law, which also states that we deal humanely with refugee flows and with asylum seekers in the European Union. What would be completely fair is if the VVD were to say: we are not closing the borders, but we are investing in regional care. Unfortunately, I have not been able to read that in the VVD plan, the 'workpiece' as Mr Schouw called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u76	I would ask Mr Kuzu to read that note again. Investment is precisely about creating safe ports and safe third countries, so that we can reach every refugee and every displaced person instead of spending many billions on such a small part of the refugees in the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u77	It is, of course, striking that the spokesperson of the largest group in this Parliament indicates that he wants to close the borders of the European Union and only accept European refugees in Europe. It would be a real credit to the VVD if it respected international law and did not distinguish between the vulnerable refugee here and elsewhere, anywhere in the world. Dare to be righteous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u78	Mr. Chairman. The plan of the VVD contains good elements. Let me start with a positive one. The Christian Union welcomes both reception in the region, the development of invitation and resettlement policies and the broad alignment of asylum policies within Europe. It's nice that the VVD pleads for this. At the same time, I would like to say that these are not new plans of the VVD. In fact, she has been advocating this for a long time. In fact, I think that the vast majority of this Chamber is in favour of this: harmonization of asylum policy in Europe, reception in the region, etc., etc. The real question is, of course, whether the VVD is also prepared to add butter to the fish when it comes to spending money on the reception of refugees in the region. Is it prepared, for example, to pay extra money for this next year, something the Christian Union has worked hard for in recent years with the 570 million together with the two parties in the cabinet? Extension of the invitation policy, through the motion of the PvdA and the Christian Union, has so far also been opposed by the VVD. It was only 250 of the most vulnerable extra refugees. The question now is whether the VVD is still prepared to implement this motion with this proposal. That is what I am actually asking this new Secretary of State, too, to congratulate him on his appointment, because I also noticed that he said that a motion adopted by the Chamber should be carried out. Of course, he was right about that, in principle. That is a comment that Mr Schouw made. Basically, he's absolutely right about that. I therefore ask him whether he is still prepared, for example, to carry out the motion on the quota of illegal immigrants, which we have previously tabled with the PvdA and which he has achieved, and the motion on the additional reception of 250 invited asylum seekers according to his own line. I'm very curious about his reaction. The closure of Europe's borders was, of course, new. We did know that in the committee, from the PVV. It suggested that time and time again and the VVD responded by default with the remark that this was absolutely unrealistic, that it could not and that treaties had to be terminated. It was swearing in the church of the VVD. What do we see now? The proposal comes from the VVD tube. A 180-degree turn. And why? I ask the cabinet if it can indicate which treaties should be amended in order to implement the plan of the VVD. And how long would it take to change all these treaties? While we are talking about the renewed asylum policy, the Christian Union also wants to express some of its ideas. I'm gonna call them fast. First of all, take away human traffickers from their trade, reduce the need to cross over with gambled boats and simply expand the invitation policy. Secondly, make a selection in Africa for asylum permits at the gate, by having the asylum application processed by the Dutch embassies, by EU delegations or, even better, with the help of the UN refugee organisation. Thirdly, harmonise asylum policy by working in Europe with one risk analysis per country of origin. I admit that this is not a new idea either, but we are on top of it. Fourthly: come up with a robust and humane border guard, and rebuild the Frontex mission Triton back to Mare Nostrum, which we had before. Mare Nostrum had the goal of saving people's lives. Fifth, invest structurally in the reception of refugees in the region by providing humane reception and job prospects, rather than what is happening now. In fact, refugees are still freezing to death in Lebanon. I come to the greater causes of migratory flows. The VVD and the cabinet should not close their eyes to poverty and inequality in the world. That is what we are doing now because of the huge savings in development cooperation. Help people by giving them a perspective on a better future. Invest in these countries through aid and trade. Bring the budget for development cooperation back to 0.7%, as requested by the Christian Union in a motion adopted in the Chamber last year. I would also like to hear the reaction of the cabinet to these proposals from the Christian Union. The Chamber has been invited to debate this proposal from the Christian Union again, perhaps next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u79	Mr Voordewind is doing so well that I am actually wondering the following. Suppose the cabinet falls, there will be new elections, the Christian Union grows naturally like coal and comes to speak with Mr Azmani about the future asylum policy. Is it then acceptable to the Christian Union in one way or another to address that point that we are basically offering asylum only to European refugees in Europe? Or is that the point for the Christian Union: not now, never?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u80	I thought I had said in my speech that there are growth elements in the VVD proposals, but that of those proposals closing Europe's borders is the worst or worst proposal. I thought I said we absolutely shouldn't go there. I did propose that we look at how to combat this flow of refugees and, in particular, how to prevent drowning in the Mediterranean. The first six pages of the VVD-plan are about that. In this respect, my group sees the possibility of extending the invitation policy much more, so that those who are most vulnerable can be helped to have a safe home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u81	That was clear to me, of course. As a result of this evening, I am also trying to pick up the fact that large and important political parties in this House dare to say, in particular, that proposal from the VVD: not now and never not. In my view, then, we are simply creating political clarity with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u82	I am a little surprised at the fact that the D66 spokesperson is asking me this question. Mr Schouw knows me and knows my commitment in this area. We have had many debates on this subject. However, if he is looking for an affirmative answer from me, I say: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u83	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u84	I have a few more questions. After all, the Secretary of State is here for a reason. The cabinet also attaches great importance to reception in the region. Is it therefore prepared to invest more in this in the coming years? Is the conclusion correct that the cabinet firmly rejects the VVD's plan to close the external borders, as suggested in the cabinet letter? I would like to hear a clear answer to that question. Does the Cabinet recognise that the Triton mission in relation to the old mission Mare Nostrum is a weakening and limiting of the mandate? During the European Presidency, is the cabinet going to make a fresh effort to get that mission back? Furthermore, in the letter the cabinet writes mainly to other Member States to take part in the resettlement programme. I assume that this cabinet should also be able to act in its own right and should be enlarged. In short, the Christian Union is in favour of a fair and humane asylum policy. I hope that the VVD is not digging into unrealistic PVV positions, but is actually prepared to come up with constructive plans on asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u85	Let me first say that I welcome Mr Voordewind's constructive attitude on behalf of the Christian Union. There are many parallels between the VVD plan and Mr Voordewind's proposals. He is actually challenging us to discuss his plan in the debate next week. I'm gonna try. If I have understood correctly, Mr Voordewind wants more selection to take place outside Europe. But if you do that and keep the possibility of applying for asylum in Europe open, how do you avoid problems such as the human tragedies in the Mediterranean, the smuggling industry and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u86	Of course, you will never completely prevent them unless we actually fight poverty in Africa with each other in Europe, with America and with other rich countries. But we also know that this will not happen overnight. You and I can contribute to this through fair trade agreements, debt forgiveness and development cooperation. By the way, you are cutting 3 billion. The resettlement policy you're talking about in your note offers brackets. If we can expand that for the most vulnerable, we will not push these people into the hands of human traffickers and prevent them from getting into those boats as well. Instead, they are invited to fly a plane to Europe. Then we have to share the burden fairly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u87	I do not yet see how we can prevent the problems of human trafficking and the drowning of people in the Mediterranean with this plan. Steps will be taken by Mr Voordewind. Does he agree with me that it should be the commitment, including the EU's foreign policy, to encourage stable countries in Africa to be safe for refugees, third countries where refugees are humanely received and where there is also a perspective in the form of a right of residence for those in need of long-term protection? Is that the development the Christian Union wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u88	Sure. Reception in the region is already 80% or 90%, as other colleagues have said. If Mr Azmani wants to think with me about how we can further develop reception in the region, also financially, again next year, we have done the same with 570 million............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At the same time, this will not be the only solution to prevent that boat trip. For that, we will have to invest even more in Africa in order to combat inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u89	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we have a special debate with each other. In fact, I think that Mr Azmani should be in trade-K and that we should have a debate on a kind of initiative paper, as we sometimes do in general consultation. Now the Secretary of State is actually here to answer questions about the VVD's plans, while we are having the debate on cabinet policy at a later date. Nevertheless, we will be happy to have this debate within the current format. I myself have been the spokesman for asylum policy since 1998. In addition, I have come across many plans. It may surprise you, but this VVD plan reminds me of a Christian Union plan. It actually comes closest to a plan that has ever come out of the box of a predecessor of the Christian Union. I am referring to a plan by Mr Lecturer on behalf of the RPF Group. In the 1990s, in the context of the 1992 General Reviews, he pointed out that we could simplify asylum seekers' problems if people fleeing their country for any reason and seeking refuge elsewhere had to report to a UN camp in the region for a first reception. This requires adaptation of the Refugee Convention. That was the classic line also brought forward by the Christian Union. There has also been some migration in positions over time. Nevertheless, the starting point also appealed to the SGP group in the past that you do care about people in need who are looking for a better way to get out of it.......................................................................................................................................................................................... That's how the SGP Group is still in it. We saw that the student's plan was discussed in detail at that time and was gradually treated with a little more sympathy. At the time, Secretary of State Kosto took a positive view and Secretary of State Albayrak came up with a letter on the future of asylum policy in which reception in the region would be much more central. However, it was only a small step forward. It has been difficult to make progress, partly because the practice was, also in consultation with other countries, that we should continue to strengthen reception in the region, but it should not be deducted from the obligations we have international law and treaty law to follow a proper procedure for people knocking on the door to determine whether they are refugees within the meaning of the Refugee Convention. At that time, it was found that it was not feasible to obtain more exclusive scrutiny in the region. It also appeared that it was not feasible to focus on improving reception in the region and from there trying to prevent people from going very far because there would not be sufficient reception in their own region. Has anything changed in the course of time? Does the Secretary of State think it would be more discussable to get more scrutiny in the region? I haven't noticed that the international movement is here yet. I remember another debate in 2001, in which then spokesperson Kamp pointed out that a new Refugee Convention was needed with scrutiny in its own region. The VVD Group and political groups of other parties then assumed that in the past it was evident that it required an adaptation of the Refugee Convention and that it could not be done within the framework of the existing Convention. What is the government's position in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u90	I would like to thank Mr van der Staaij for indicating how consistent our line has been since 1992, so I understood. Reception in the region is indeed still our line. I understand from Mr van der Staaij that his party is also in favour of a humane asylum policy, including in Europe. I would ask him, however, why his colleague recently suggested in an asylum debate to buy just a little bit better boats so that the people who might be approaching Europe can be returned to the country of origin as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u91	We should not all want people in crummy boats to find a good place in Europe. I think that is a valid point in the note from the VVD Group. We need to make much more effort to ensure that the border control system is right, that smugglers are dealt with and that people are able to knock here in a decent way, but not through the route that is actually dangerous and which we are actually only going to encourage if we are going to try to get as many people as possible and offer them a safe place in Europe. By doing so, you stimulate these kinds of life-threatening situations to occur instead of fighting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u92	We all agree on that. You have to save the people the moment they become drowning. The SGP proposal in that committee was that you should return the people you save, linea recta, while this spokesperson of the SGP says that we should give people the opportunity to be taken care of in Europe. I wonder which line is the correct line of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u93	That's exactly the same line. We must always have the possibility, moreover, that the SGP has always advocated in its plans that Europe should take responsibility for providing temporary protection for people in large numbers in its own region, rather than saying that those countries should solve it themselves. Another point, on which I would also like to ask the State Secretary's opinion, is that I have heard that the Italian authorities have plans to deploy Tunisia and Egypt's Coast Guard, supported by European resources and expertise, to bring people who are floating around in boats back to the coast, in order to prevent this type of practice from continuing. That looks like what Mr Voordewind just mentioned. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to that plan. The support for our asylum system is promoted as much as possible when permits for a certain period of time are actually temporary. The starting point of the law is that an authorisation is withdrawn or not granted when the land for granting has expired. To what extent is this principle also being actively implemented in practice? This has to do with the fact that if you really allow temporary protection to be temporary protection, we believe that it will also provide a better basis for support and greater opportunities for generous temporary reception of refugees. I agree with Mr Voordewind's comments on reception in the region. A great deal has already been said about this. In the past, plans have been made to improve, not only in numbers, but also in circumstances. I can very well imagine that people often do not want to go to those camps, because the situation there is quite miserable. You really wouldn't want to sit in a refugee camp like that. How can the international effort be strengthened to ensure much more humane and better reception in the region, so that people do not go looking for a better way to come and then have to travel incredible ends, but can also be sheltered closer to home? Finally, I would like to ask what possibilities the Secretary of State sees for a firmer approach to smugglers, in addition to the policies that have been pursued so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u94	I have not yet heard Mr Van der Staaij on the jumping point why we are meeting here tonight. That jumping point is the VVD Group's proposal that, in principle, only European refugees should be granted asylum in Europe. Is that an interesting idea for the SGP Group or does the SGP Group also say that this is going a little too far?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u95	In itself, I think it is a good idea to see if you can test more in your own region. Then the main line will no longer be that large numbers arrive first in Europe and only apply for asylum here. If you say: as much as possible in the region, the question is whether you can put a border around Europe. If there are problems on the northern edge of Africa, you can ask yourself whether this is part of our region, for which we share responsibility. That's a reason. A second reason is that there can also be people who cannot go to their own region for review or reception. I think that you still have to keep an open mind about the possibility of applying for asylum in the countries of Europe itself, and that it will never be enough simply to check and receive asylum far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u96	We shouldn't fool each other either. First reception in the region is not a new insight into the note of the VVD group. Mr Van der Staaij is also an asylum spokesperson, so he knows better than anyone that we have been pushing for years. I do think it is important to have the SGP wine ready on that point of principle. I understand the reaction in such a way that the SGP does not consider it logical to avoid the word 'unacceptable' in order to close the borders for refugees from outside Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u97	I find the latter a different wording. If you say that closing the borders for refugees from outside Europe, I think that is far too far-reaching in any case. In any case, I believe that we have a responsibility in Europe for people who may encounter problems in large numbers abroad. Then you can say you have a responsibility to contribute. This does not necessarily mean that the system is so that everyone must be able to come to Europe to apply for it. You can do that there, too. So I would not turn these system issues into a moral principle as soon as possible. My moral principle is that there must always be shelter for refugees in need. And yes, we too have a contribution to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u98	I would just like to comment on this review outside Europe. I myself suggested that it should be possible again to apply for asylum not necessarily in an EU country, but also in its own country or in crisis regions. Do I understand correctly that the SGP supports that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u99	Sure. We think it is a good idea that it is possible to check whether he is a refugee within the meaning of the Refugee Convention in one's own region as soon as possible. This also promotes the truth: it is not necessary to find out whether or not someone is a refugee within the meaning of the Refugee Convention after a very complicated journey with all kinds of situations in a distant past. So I agree; that is a good starting point. This should initially be linked to reception in its own region, in a decent and high quality reception by UNHCR. In special cases and circumstances, reception can take place in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u100	That's clear. Mr Van der Staaij states that he considers decent care to be important. We see the images of the camps in Jordan and Lebanon. According to Mr Van der Staaij, is that a decent shelter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u101	I myself have been in many refugee camps and have often been shocked by the quality of care there. That motivates me very much. I have therefore always supported proposals to improve conditions there. It has a certain injustice that people who cannot make it because they do not have the money to go to Europe should remain in the circumstances of that country, while we have a very expensive system here for the larger, just a little more well-off groups, who can afford to make the journey here. At that time Lecturer said it and now it actually comes up in the VVD-plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u102	I agree with Mr Voortman's question. We know that the SGP will want more money for the defence sector in the future budgetary negotiations. Over the past year, we have increased together to invest the 570 million in the regions of the reception of refugees. Does the SGP Group intend to include in the next year's budget an additional investment to finance that reception in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u103	Yes. We have always supported this and will definitely continue to support it, from the point of view of making greater use of reception facilities in the region and making more funds available for this purpose. But that must of course be done in conjunction with other countries, which must also be taken on their responsibilities. It is not intended that the Netherlands should make an extremely disproportionate contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u104	I welcome the constructive attitude of the SGP and I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij the following question. If we want to introduce security ports and comply with the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, that means creating safe third countries. If I understand Mr Van der Staaij correctly, he believes that asylum can be granted in individual cases. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that this could also be done through the resettlement instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u105	Yes, that could indeed be done through resettlement. This route is appropriate for this purpose, after a test has been carried out and it has been established that these are refugees; then refugees can get a place in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, however, reality is always slightly more complicated than can be included in our plans. There may therefore be circumstances in which people cannot be reasonably asked to check and care in their own region, because they do not feel safe there. We have already had the discussion about certain groups of Christians who were in trouble in the refugee camps in Syria and Iraq, who did not feel safe enough and actually experienced problems there. There will also be other examples to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u106	I'm not talking about those refugee camps either. I am talking about stable countries, for example in Africa, where you can set up a system similar to that in Europe. If that is the case and refugees are protected, there can be resettlement in an individual case. Is it not possible to end the asylum system as we know it in Europe for them? The possibility of shelter in a safe country is already there. For an individual case, we can then move on to resettlement in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u107	You should always keep the possibility open that there are particular reasons why people feel the need to apply in Europe. You can't close the window completely. This can give rise to distressing situations. This is then even more in the sphere of planning. However, there is also a practical point. When these ideas were expressed in the past, there was no international support for them. Less developed countries were afraid that the burden would be placed too much on them and that it would be too easy for Europe to keep its hands clear. I have no idea that much has changed in that regard. In order to achieve this, considerable adjustments are needed to treaties, and I wonder if there is any prospect of that in the distant future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u108	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is desperately trying to create the image that it is strict on immigration and asylum. However, image and reality are hugely different. I'll give you the facts. In the past year more than 30,000 asylum seekers arrived in our country, 75% more than in 2013. The cabinet set an immigration record last year. In 2014, 181,000 immigrants arrived. The residence of Secretary of State Dijkhoff, Breda, has just as many inhabitants. In short, the VVD is totally unbelievable on the immigration and asylum issue. Asylum seekers should not be received in the Netherlands, but abroad. Now some small villages in our country are completely disrupted by the influx of hundreds of asylum seekers. That's gotta stop. The Netherlands is not a shelter. My group is in favour of reception in the region. Syrians should not be caught in the Netherlands, but in Jordan, Turkey and Georgia, or in rock-rich wave states such as Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. Reception in the region is much cheaper. For every asylum seeker we receive here, we can collect a multitude of them abroad. Now that's human. We can use the emergency budget for this. Leftwing parties are emotional, my group is rational. So my group does not want asylum in the Netherlands. In addition, we do not want immigration without opportunity, but a strict immigration policy, as in Australia. As far as we are concerned, only people who add anything to our society are welcome. Pim Fortuyn said we shouldn't mop with the tap open. The integration problems are already big enough. The over-representation of non-Western immigrants in assistance and crime leads to high costs. Mass immigration from non-Western countries also erodes our western core values, such as the equality of men and women, the separation of Church and State and freedom of expression. Both VVD Prime Minister Rutte and VVD Secretary Dijkhoff dare not burn their fingers on the VVD asylum proposal. So it turned out to be another empty shell of the VVD. Not the VVD, but the Labour Party is in charge of this coalition. The letters "VVD" now stand for: Friends Van Diederik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u109	Mr Bontes used the word "we" a few times in his interesting speech: we have to take people in the region; we have to take people in Saudi Arabia and all kinds of other countries. Who exactly does Mr. Bontes mean by "we"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u110	The Netherlands as a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u111	So "we" is the Netherlands? This Secretary of State, the Cabinet? So they're supposed to be taking people in Saudi Arabia? How did Mr. Bontes manage to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u112	That could be very good. These are rich countries that can provide refugees from the region. They should rather be taken into account in the kind of countries I mentioned. I also mentioned Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. Those are wealthy countries. Let those people be taken care of there and not in the Netherlands. We had 30,000 last year. That's more than enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u113	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State for his appointment. It's the first debate we've had with each other. I look forward to the many debates we will have with this Secretary of State. Do we have to keep watching? Do we have to stand by and watch asylum seekers, caught up in crummy boats, try to make the crossing from Africa to southern Europe? Do we have to stand by and watch them drown in the Mediterranean? I don't think so. Should we be proud of the European asylum system, which criminals and terrorist organisations are gratefully using, which takes advantage of asylum seekers, in which they are abused and in which their lives are put at risk by promising them a crossing in exchange for a lot of money? I don't think so. Is it fair for a small group of refugees who have money to benefit from the current asylum system, while the much larger group of poor remain in the region? I don't think so. Is it logical that we should spend on that small group of asylum seekers that the EU can reach, a multiple of the budget that UNHCR is spending on the large group of vulnerable people in the region? I don't think that's fair. Should we continue to watch the increase in the number of asylum seekers every year? Over the past year, there has been an increase in the number of asylum applications from 465,000 to 626,000. The consequences cannot be seen in the future: loss of support for care, pressure on the welfare state and tensions in EU societies. Is that what we want? I don't think so. Is it normal for us to maintain a system when we do not really know who we are allowing into European territory? Is it a fugitive, a lucky seeker or a terrorist? I think that is no longer sustainable. I can go on for a while, but the conclusion is very clear to me: the current EU asylum system is unsustainable and needs to be reviewed urgently. I don't want to stand idly by anymore. The VVD has never shunned the naming of major social problems. The naming of problems is still up to that point. It always comes down to solving problems, or at least contributing to them, however controversial or rigorous these solutions may seem at first. Sitting still isn't an option and watching isn't an option at all. Problems do not disappear if you turn away from them and only confess your solidarity with the mouth. I am convinced that the problems will be so great in the long term that other parties will have to participate. The VVD is convinced that receiving 1% to 3% in its own region will help to solve the problem. By creating safe ports in the region, asylum flows to Europe can be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u114	I did not see who was previously on the interrupting microphone, Mr Voordewind or Mrs Voortman. It was a little ex aequo. Mr Voordewind may first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u115	It is to the credit of the VVD that she is thinking about how to proceed with asylum policy. We have, of course, had a lot of debates on this before. I was also pleased that there was a plan, but if you had peeled off all the merciful words of the introduction to the plan, you would come up with one solution from the VVD, which was new to the VVD but not to the PVV, namely: closing the European external borders. How does the VVD intend to contribute, by closing Europe's borders, to strengthening the mercy or justice that Mr Azmani began his contribution to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u116	To take away a misunderstanding, those boundaries are already closed. Europe's external borders are in principle closed. Europe has no free, open borders. Only the fact that someone can apply for asylum will give that person access to European territory. My proposal is precisely that we should find a new facility in which we do comply with the obligations of the Refugee Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Anti-Folter Convention, so that we can end the asylum flows to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u117	I hear Mr Azmani saying: we are not going to amend treaties; we do not have to. Do I understand correctly that the VVD says: when they arrive at the gate with us, we put them back in boats towards Africa, Algeria or Tunisia and then we wish them very much strength again? Is that the solution of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u118	The solution of the VVD is to create safe ports in the region and to have safe third countries that respect the Refugee Convention and other treaties they themselves have signed, such as the African Refugee Convention that goes even further than the UN Refugee Convention. If you ensure that these people take responsibility for this and implement it as we have done in Europe, if those countries also make that development, then you can also abolish the asylum system for Europe. This means that these people no longer go on those boats to Europe because they can find the safe haven close to their own country and there is therefore nothing left to look for in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u119	Mr. Azmani started with an introduction, every sentence of which began with "Should we watch?'. One of the examples he mentioned was about the differences that exist now between the people who can afford to come here via human trafficking and the people who can't. How were these people helped by the VVD's plan to close Europe's borders even further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u120	These people have been helped because we want to create and invest safe ports. We want the EU to invest as a whole in the region. The Netherlands is one of the major donors compared to the other EU Member States when it comes to investment in those regions themselves. Countries like Germany and Sweden choose to resettle large numbers of Syrians. We see what the result of that is. There is even a government in Sweden because of the large numbers. In Germany, tensions in society are already palpable. The question of these countries to the other EU Member States is: would you like to take over some of us? That's not the answer. The solution is a common European asylum policy aimed at investing in the region through adequate, humane reception, giving a sustainable perspective to people in need of long-term protection. If you have realised that, it is no longer necessary to take asylum seekers from outside Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u121	If you look now in that region, I assume that Mr Azmani does not mean Europe by that, but that he is talking about countries like Jordan and Lebanon, then you can see that the refugee camps there are very crowded and there are food shortages and appalling conditions. Then you can't say with dry eyes that that's the only solution? If you want people really to be treated humanely, you also have to acknowledge that it is not possible to do so purely and only with the reception of the people there. If Mr Azmani says that his group does want to close the borders, he is looking away. Then he will not do anything about the problems that people are already experiencing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u122	We spend billions in Europe on a small part of the refugees. It is a multiple of the UNHCR budget. I would not like to keep in the air a system intended only for the rich refugee, for the refugee who has money to go through the smuggling industry to Europe. I would prefer to see these investments, which are a multiple of the UNHCR's budget, made in those camps in the areas that Mrs Voortman also addresses. I would like to mention the example of Turkey. There, 1.7 million Syrian refugees are being received. That shelter is human in my eyes. There are container houses and the implementation of an asylum system is being carried out in cooperation with the UNHCR. The budget for this is EUR 275 million. The Netherlands has a forecast of 25,000 asylum applications in its 2015 budget. We know that there will be more applications in the coming year. Only 399 million is involved in the reception of the COA, the first-line summit. If you add the procedures to that, you get to 0.5 billion. That could go up to 1 billion. Then I think to myself: we can use that money much more effectively and reach a much larger group of people? That will also have to appeal to GroenLinks. We should not keep a system in the air that is intended only for people who have the money to come to the Netherlands via the smuggling industry. In addition, they risk their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u123	Let me make it clear that my group would have liked to support Mr Azmani in that plan. In that respect, he has my full support. We see the same problem. I just have questions about the solutions. In 2012 the VVD stated in its election programme that there should be an opt-out on asylum and immigration. The Netherlands must therefore again take charge of its own asylum and immigration policy. Mr Azmani is now in favour of heralding the external borders. Which one is it gonna be now, because somewhere they bite each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u124	A possible opt-out regarding family reunification policy has been introduced in the VVD election programme. There are EU directives for the regular family reunification policy. We would like to see a further tightening-up of requests for family or family reunification. That's what the opt-out's for. For the VVD it is quite clear that asylum policy is not a national policy. You're not very good at turning the buttons here to regulate that flow. It is a European problem. It's a European issue. All legislation and policies also come from Europe. There is therefore no point in turning these buttons at national level. In other words, the VVD's electoral programme includes an opt-out on the regular migration policy for family reunification and not on the European asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u125	So next time we can see both plans in the election program of the VVD? I am talking about the opt-out for asylum and immigration and the hermetic closure of the external borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u126	On the contrary, the VVD does not advocate an opt-out on asylum. Asylum is a European issue. Asylum is a European problem. Or you should say like the PVV that you want to close the Dutch borders, but the VVD differs from the PVV. We don't see it that way. We have Schengen borders and so on in the context of the free movement of persons, services and goods. That's what our prosperity is all about. So it would have great consequences if you closed the Dutch borders. We are also different from the PVV as regards the removal of the signature under the Refugee Convention. Those are the two differences. So I'm not advocating that opt-out. I see a major European problem, a major social problem. Until recently, Europe was just staring at the belly buttons: who pays what part of the cost of the meal? Then you're talking about the problem of redistribution. In my view, that's symptom control. That is what I have always said in the debates on this subject. You have to fight the cause. What's the cause? What's the trigger? The reason why a lot of people are willing to take these risks is that we keep together an asylum system in the air that serves that trigger. In my opinion, it can be arranged differently from a human, social and social point of view, but also from a security point of view, since this flow is not regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u127	Mr Azmani is doing exactly the same thing as Mr Bontes, calling a little from behind the cathedral that the Netherlands should ensure that all kinds of refugee camps with excellent facilities are set up elsewhere in the world. That was also stated in Mr Azmani's note. But of course that is not possible at all. As the VVD knows as no other, we have no control over other countries at all. We do not decide whether Turkey will open another refugee camp or whether Lebanon will allow even more refugees. The VVD was already able to count in advance that there is probably no majority for it in the Chamber and that it is not legally possible, apart from the question of whether the moral judgment on this matter would be correct. Is it not true that Mr Azmani has tried to score very cheaply with this little plan and that he is doing exactly what we must stay far from, namely inciting fear of mass immigration among the Dutch population, which the PVV has been feeding on for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u128	With all due respect, Mrs. Gesthuizen is looking away from the problems. Parties can look away from problems. It is possible that they do not dare to name problems and do not dare to tackle them. I have not heard any proposals from the Socialist Party that actually solve these problems. Then I'm talking about the human dramas in the Mediterranean. Trying to keep those systems in the air. That means it's only for the rich and the poor can choke. It is precisely the Socialist Party that maintains that. There is pressure on the welfare state and on social security. There is an increasing influx of migrants. The number of asylum applications has increased from 435 000 to 626,000. The expectations are that these numbers will continue to increase in the coming years. I don't want to take that responsibility alone. I want to see how you can solve that big social problem. What's the trigger? How else can you set it up, so that it is much more supportive for all refugees and displaced persons? I don't hear Mrs. Gesthuizen about that. She only says bathinatingly that it would be some kind of profiling point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u129	That's total bullshit. Total bullshit! I refer to Dennis de Jong, MEP for the SP. I even presented the plan here to Secretary of State Bitches. The SP has long and wide alternatives to ensure that migration to Europe, which Mr Azmani is so terribly afraid of, is managed in better jobs. That plan's been there a long time, so this is bullshit. At the heart of the problem is that Mr Azmani is coming up with a solution for those 10% asylum seekers of the total. 10% of refugees worldwide know how to find their way to the better-off part of the world; for example the US, for example the European Union, for example Canada, for example Australia. The rest have been in these camps for a long time and grows up there generation after generation. What you are doing with your little plan, Mr Azmani, is easily scoring for the stage and inciting even more fear among the Dutch population.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u130	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u131	I'll come to a question in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u132	I'd like you to come to a question now, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u133	Is it not a bit of a pity that Mr Azmani, instead of joining forces with parties here in the Chamber who come up with realistic solutions, chooses to quickly go down the path of the PVV and scare the people of the Netherlands? We should really do something for refugees, for the Dutch people and for the people of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u134	It's actually a repeat of moves. I think Mrs Gesthuizen is looking away from the great social problem and the human dramas in the Mediterranean. Nor will the Socialist Party's plan provide the solution. The future will tell you that. It is easy to say from Mrs Gesthuizen, but I am standing here to address these problems and put forward a proposal. I can imagine that this may seem rather controversial to Mrs Gesthuizen, but it is the only solution to show solidarity with the poor refugees and displaced persons currently in camps, while Member States choose to bring more people here instead of investing there. I would say: that proposal is not so strange, even if you look through the Socialist Party's glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u135	Mr Azmani gives an anthology of the measures in his plan, but what lingers in the Chamber is also true, and I think that the EU's external borders are closing. My question, Mr Voordewind, is: what specific measure in Mr Azmani's plan will lead to the EU's external borders being closed? He has just mentioned the security of ports, but that is something else. I'm gonna try this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u136	I would then like to continue with my introduction, which answers Mr Oskam's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u137	Wouldn't you like to try and give me an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u138	It's possible. What it is stuck on is that a safe haven, which we want, a safe third country, is not in breach of the Refugee Convention. At the VVD, every refugee is also entitled to that safe accommodation. So we are not sending people back to countries where people are afraid of persecution or where they have a violation of their rights in the form of inhuman treatment as referred to in Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. We must create a safe haven in a safe third country, which respects people's lives and freedom and where there is no threat based on race, religion, nationality or membership of a particular social group or political belief. That country must respect the principle of non-refoulement under the Geneva Convention and the prohibition of expulsion in violation of the right to safeguard torture and other cruel or inhuman or degrading treatment as laid down in international law. If we create that and if that is EU foreign policy, we will comply with the treaties. Then you can make sure there is a safe third country. The Treaties do not oblige us to grant a permit or a right of existence in Europe. The treaties oblige us to protect them after returning to the countries where they fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u139	At least then it becomes clear, because all the parties want this reception in the region. The plan and the media have clearly stated that it is about the closure of the external borders. My conclusion is that that conclusion is premature unless Mr Azmani has other plans, but I ask him to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u140	It is a misunderstanding that the external borders are open. We have closed the EU's external borders, but they are no longer closed when someone applies for asylum. Then you will have to welcome the applicant to the territory of the EU and start a procedure that can lead to a right of residence. Those boundaries are not open. They're basically closed. You have to meet conditions to obtain a residence permit. The VVD is concerned with putting an end to the asylum flows that enter Europe, given the ever-increasing numbers of migrants who can have an impact on society. To safety, because the influx is uncontrolled, but also socially humanely viewed, because you want to avoid human dramas and because you want to further improve reception in the region. This requires a different EU asylum policy and a different stimulus, with a different focus and greater ambition than has been expressed so far in Europe and in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u141	Europe's external borders are indeed closed. What Mr Azmani wants to do is to build a fortress around Europe so that no asylum seeker can enter Europe. The necessary questions have been asked. I have a personal political question to ask Mr Azmani about the following. I find it striking that the VVD puts forward an exotic name in front of the wallet and has the name Malik Azmani put under this plan. Why do you lend yourself to that, Mr Azmani?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u142	With all due respect, I'm glad I'm a member of a political party where it's not about your origin and where it's not about the name you have. In the end, it's about what your vision is. I feel like a liberal party that gets the most out of people and promotes being a country where a dime can be a quarter, very much at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u143	Mr Azmani stands there very neatly in a suit with a tie and indicates that he wants to build a fortress for Europe as a whole, so that no asylum seeker can enter. Does Mr Azmani realize that his father, his own father, was once even a lucky seeker and came to Europe? Does he realize that he wouldn't be standing here if his father hadn't come looking for his happiness in Europe? Don't you think that's a little hypocritical, Mr Azmani?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u144	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u145	Mr Azmani, this question is far out of order. You don't have to answer it. You can also answer the question in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u146	That's what I'm gonna do. I would advise Mr Kuzu to go further into foreign law and immigration policy. There are several reasons why migrants come to the Netherlands or Europe. He's putting forward some kind of apple and pear equation here. About fortress Europe: I would like to point out that we already have a form of fortress Europe. If I invite Mr Kuzu to Morocco to look at the fences surrounding the Spanish enclaves, that is the image we now have, a fortress Europe. If you make it unnecessary to apply for asylum in Europe, because there is a safe existence in the region, then you no longer need these fences. Then we know that there is no chance of going to Europe on the basis of asylum motives. There may be other reasons why you are admitted to Europe, for example if you are going to work in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u147	Mr Azmani talks about wanting to prevent human dramas. On the NOS Journal he also said that he wanted to prevent people from dying this summer when they made the crossing to Europe. How can his proposal help to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u148	My hope is that we will do so, but that can only be done if the Chamber has to give its opinion. We can now see that the majority of the Chamber does not yet want to make that point. I understand that, too, because, in my view, we need to be ambitious about these safe third countries right now. That is the process that needs to be initiated. I have a constructive attitude on the part of a number of parties. I don't taste it with Mrs. Voortman. About 40% of her plan is in line with my plan, but what Mrs Voortman wants most of all is and-and. I have already said it in response to an interruption by Mrs Voortman: as far as I am concerned, you might as well build a physical walkway between North Africa and Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u149	I haven't seen any proposals in the VVD's plan that will prevent people from making the transition this summer. That's the point. We propose that people can legally apply for asylum so that they do not have to make that switch. That's a way of getting the wind out of the sails and making sure that people don't risk their lives with an illegal crossing. That's a real solution. With Mr Azmani's proposals, you are looking away and making sure that next summer people will also find death in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u150	Shame on you, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks wants to receive 51.2 million refugees and displaced persons in Europe. GroenLinks wants to get back from the Triton to Mare Nostrum operation. Last year, 3,000 people drowned in the Mediterranean. Maybe we should do our best to prevent drowning so that people there don't find their death. It's too easy to think you can prevent this. We know that the more ships we have in the Mediterranean as part of rescue operations, the worse are the boats on which the refugees are transported by human traffickers: less petrol and more rafts with all the risks involved. I don't want to take that responsibility, but apparently GroenLinks does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u151	I would like to know from Mr Azmani why the VVD is not going through. Why isn't the VVD going through? Why does he submit an asylum plan to indicate one day later that it is not being implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u152	We are committed to achieving the desired result in the end. When I hear the Chamber like that, there can be a majority for all these instruments. For me, it is already a great gain that we are having this debate. By means of a motion, we can inform the Secretary of State on which areas Europe should show a much greater ambition in asylum and migration policy than at present. Of course, my party is bound by the agreements we made in the coalition agreement. However, that does not mean that the mind stands still. I am now laying down a plan which is controversial for many parties. I'm glad it's not controversial for the PVV. It is now up to the other parties to realize what the plan can mean. If it takes more time, so be it. I don't want to stand here any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u153	That is exactly what Mr Azamani is doing now: to watch powerless. He pleads for urgent action, but he says at the same time: sorry, we do not, because the PvdA does not want it. If he had really taken his measures seriously, he would have put them above the PvdA. Then he should have dumped the PvdA. Now he's cheating on voters of the worst kind, and he should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u154	Get rid of it, get rid of it, get rid of it. We are a party that takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u155	I'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u156	No, no, no. You just asked your question. I would like to give Mr Azmani the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u157	Get rid of it, get rid of it, like I said. We are a party that takes responsibility. We're in big trouble. This isn't the only thing. We face major problems in society. We take responsibility for that. That is different from Mr Fritsma's party, we know that now. That's obvious. We accept our responsibility, but that does not mean that I cannot take a position on a migration policy that we want. If the instruments are presented with ambition, you will quickly arrive at a result that the VVD wants to stand for. That is different from the PVV who wants the signature of the refugee treaty to be removed tomorrow. We do feel responsible for refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u158	The VVD submits an asylum plan and now runs away from it itself. Really, worthless can't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u159	This is rhetoric. I'm not running away from the asylum plan at all. I am standing before the asylum plan and I believe that we are now having a debate on this asylum plan. In my opinion, we should eventually create a majority in this Chamber in order to complete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u160	I'd like to clear up a misunderstanding first. The Azmani referred to 250 million earmarked by the UNHCR for the reception of Syrian refugees in Turkey. That's money we spend on refugees. I would like to remind him, and so do the people in the Chamber, that is to say more than 1.5 billion ECU. There is even talk of 3 billion ECU which the Turkish Government itself is providing to enable the reception of those Syrian refugees. Apart from the question of whether we can say whether this reception is good quality. Mr. Chairman. Then my question, because you want to know about me. I don't just want to talk about what we don't agree on. I think I made that more than clear. However, we agree on one thing. Most of the refugees are already being received in the region. The majority of refugees do not necessarily feel the need to leave there when there is good reception and perspective. What concrete step will the VVD take to achieve this qualitative improvement in reception?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u161	As far as Turkey is concerned, I would like to point out that in Europe, for the reception of 1% to 3% of refugees, we spend a multiple of what the UNHCR has to spend. I think that's an important equation. I think that with the many billions we spend on the reception of such a small group of asylum seekers...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u162	That's not our money, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u163	Mrs. Chicken, we'll take turns. You asked a question and Mr Azmani now answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u164	We also donate money to the UNCHR. That is clear to me as well, and that is clear to me as well. I am concerned that we are doing more here for a small group of refugees and displaced persons than we are doing there for a very large group of refugees and displaced persons. I think we can meet in that so that we can invest more in that. However, it has to do with communicating vessels. Mrs Voortman's proposal is, for example, en- and. We will not get out of that eventually, if you say on the one hand that you want more refugees to Europe and on the other hand that you want more investment in those refugee camps. They would be communicating vessels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u165	I heard Mr Azmani right. He himself also says that the need for many people to make the crossing through the Mediterranean is much less at the moment that reception is well organised in the region. I have a specific question. We can take this step without leading to far-reaching consequences or plans, as proposed by Mr Azmani. Which step is he going to take now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u166	I also hear Mrs Kuik say "and-and-so', so as well as investing in care there and assuming that then apparently fewer people would go to Europe. I don't believe in that. There will always be a prospect of a further economic future, etc., in order to make progress in trying to obtain the right of residence in Europe by means of an asylum procedure. I would point out that I do not think that is desirable. Let's make sure we do more there. This also means, however, that we will end the asylum procedure here, because we have safe third countries, have created safe ports, while respecting the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u167	I conclude that Mr Azmani, on his own proposal to improve the quality of care in the region, does not give a concrete home. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u168	I still have a bit of a question to ask whether Mr Azmani has spelled us out or not when it comes to adjusting the treaties. One suggestion is that there should be no more reception of refugees from outside Europe in Europe. Mr Azmani claims that you do not have to change any treaties for that, without my having seen any justification for that. I told you in my first term, it's been a year of study. I've been looking all over for the attachments and the evidence. Everyone who has sense says, "This is impossible." However, Mr Azmani says that this can be done. I want to get a little out of this well-nothing game. Is Mr Azmani still prepared to deliver these annexes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u169	It is not so difficult for Mr Schouw to read the literature and the case law, is it? Then he can simply conclude that, for example, Article 33 of the Refugee Convention, or Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, or the Anti-Fouler Convention do not oblige us to grant asylum to people here. These treaties only oblige us to protect refugees from being sent back to countries where they have to fear persecution or countries where they are in real danger of being subjected to inhumane treatment. Those treaties bind us to that. This means that safe ports or safe third countries will have to comply with those conventions. I think Mr Schouw has seen some of my performances in the media, but perhaps he should also listen back to last Sunday's broadcast of Met 't Oog op Morgen. There's a professor on the phone. Perhaps it would be interesting for Mr Schouw to hear that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u170	Mr Schouw, you may also ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u171	I'm listening very carefully. I see a difference between what's in that VVD note and what Mr Azmani says. It says in that note that it must become impossible. But according to the treaties, you can't make it impossible. That's the big point. For that, I don't have to listen to a professor at Met 't Oog op Morgen. As a lawyer, Mr Azmani knows that there is a difference. I notice that Mr Azmani is trying to hide all that. He acts like there are no legal obstacles. Why does he do that? Why does he not dare to honestly say that if we write down that no more refugees are allowed to come to the Netherlands from outside Europe, this will have incredibly great consequences, including in the legal sense? Then you have to change treaties, and that will take years and years. Why doesn't he dare say that honestly? Once, in a previous coalition agreement, together with the PVV, the VVD wrote that the family reunification guidelines should be amended. Well, that's what the Minister's been working on for two years. At some point he said: I am not going to do that anymore, because that is impossible. The same applies to the VVD's current proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u172	I notice there's been a shift. In the first reactions last Sunday, people said that this is not possible at all, because refugees must be given asylum here. In Mr Schouw's interruption, I notice that there has been some shift. It's very clear and very clear. The Refugee Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Anti-Folter Convention do not prohibit us from giving people a residence status in the Netherlands. We only have a duty not to send people to a country where they have to fear persecution or to a country from which they can then be sent back to another country where they have inhuman treatment, i.e. 'indirect refoulement'. That's the responsibility the VVD feels, too. We fulfil the obligations of the refugee treaty and of the ECHR if we can guarantee this with safe ports and with countries that meet the criteria I have just listed in a previous interruption by Mr Schouw. Let us not just have a legal discussion here, because it is also about the social problems that you see. We are in favour of the refugee treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u174	That treaty came into being after the Second World War. We do not want to run away from that, we want to change times. That means you don't have to take it off with this. There's only one way to prevent those human dramas. That solution is to stop the asylum procedure in Europe!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u175	Last Tuesday we took a bit of an advance on this debate. Then the Prime Minister made some interesting statements. I would like to remind Mr Azmani of that. On Mr Azmani's plan, the Prime Minister said that it was contrary to the government agreement and that it did not fit in with government policy. Now I heard Mrs. Kuik say a little less loud. She said: I did think about the plan, but we couldn't agree with the solutions. Does Mr Azmani and the Prime Minister consider his plan to be contrary to the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u176	I'm not running away from that either. We have agreements in the coalition agreement. I have heard the statements of the Labour Party. In the light of the coalition agreement, they are also correct. But that does not relieve me of the obligation to think about a major social problem. I've thought about it a little longer. I've left the play and I've thought about it again. I've been looking at the legal analysis; how do you solve that? Eventually, I come to one solution, one route. If you want to avoid wrongdoing, that may sound controversial at this time, then you need to stop the asylum application procedure in the Netherlands and in the rest of Europe. You have to take responsibility for refugees. We do not run away from that by creating safe ports for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u177	The Prime Minister said something else in terms of state law, which I am curious about, namely, that the coalition agreement is owned by the Labour Party and the VVD. I was wondering if you'd agree. Is the government's coalition agreement the property of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u178	I think you'll make a coalition agreement, a coalition agreement, if you have a majority in the Chamber. You make appointments. What are you standing for? What are the points where you don't find each other? Out comes a piece, the coalition chord. The cabinet has the mandate to implement it. I can also observe that I knew earlier that my plan does not comply with the coalition agreement. But that does not relieve me of the obligation to convince Mrs Kuik of the only solution to prevent these human tragedies and to take the human smuggling industry out of the wind. There's a security issue. The ever-increasing influx creates increasing tensions. We don't know if we're dealing with a fugitive, an economic happiness hunter or a terrorist. Surely that does not relieve me of starting the debate with each other and creating a majority for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u179	Is Mr Azmani going to do that? Is he going to file a motion to achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u180	I think a motion has already been tabled, very soon. Actually, I was surprised about that myself. On Tuesday afternoon, we agreed to hold a debate this week at work. That's what the parties wanted. I didn't have a problem with that, because I actually wanted to. One did not know how quickly one had to file a motion. In fact, during the first debate that took place this week in the Chamber, the look-back debate in the framework of the European Council, motions were already tabled by the leader of the CDA, the leader of the D66 group and the leader of the SGP group, Mr Van der Staaij. I can only be content with the fact that the process seems to be going so fast that the instruments to ultimately achieve the end result I have in mind to actually solve the problem are already being made their own. That's why I'm making proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u181	Mr Azmani must not be stupid. He has repeatedly called for the only solution to be to close the asylum procedure for people from outside the European Union. That is precisely the only proposal that is not included in the CDA's motion. So if Mr Azmani has any guts, he will present that proposal today. Otherwise, in fact, he's totally withdrawn his own plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u182	This is bullshit. First of all, we need to perfect and create safe third countries. There aren't any right now. The point is that the EU, that the Member States have a common policy, so that safe ports can be created and we can meet our obligations of conduct and the European Convention on Human Rights. In any case, I am pleased that there are parties in the Chamber who wish to participate constructively and who wish to table a motion themselves in order to achieve this in the end. It's very clear. That's not what Mrs. Voortman wants. I think she just wants a walkway between Africa and Europe. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make a real effort in Brussels to secure ports if the House asks for it in a majority? I am therefore pleased, as I have already said, that this week parties did not know how quickly they had to table a motion. I think that this is only good, because it is the only right way forward to work together and to ensure that the major social problems we face are resolved. I'm sure the result will come sooner than people here in this room suspect. The future will tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u183	Mr Azmani is now at the end of his speech. In the meantime, he has shown a number of times in a rather compelling way that he fears that, for example, a party like GroenLinks and I assume my party will also aim to bring 51.2 million refugees to the Netherlands. That is why I ask him once again why he participates in such PVV games.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u184	In any case, I have read Mrs Voortman's plan very clearly. I congratulated her on coming up with a plan so quickly in response to the VVD's plan. I have to say that in her plan she gives people the opportunity to apply for asylum at the embassies in their own countries or in neighbouring countries. It is not very difficult to conclude that, of course, everyone will be prepared to apply for asylum. It will then be very easy to grant residence permits for Europe. That conclusion is quite simple to draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u185	It is my aim, and I do not want to cut Mrs Voortman's feet off with this in order to preserve the safety and peace of the Netherlands in the Chamber with the work I am doing. I know that the hell breaks loose, to put it equally unparliamentaryly, when I say that the SP would think that all refugees in the world, over 51 million, should come to the Netherlands on invitation. We know that 10% of refugees worldwide reach the first world countries. The rest is taken care of in the region by the Third World countries. Those people will never be able to find the means to do what Mr Azmani warns. Why is he playing with fire? Why does he think that, regardless of who would claim it in the Chamber, it would be possible for more than 50 million refugees to storm the Netherlands if that is so far from reality and if that only stirs up the moods? That, while he says he wants to ensure that unrest, xenophobia, racism and unwelcomeness arise for foreigners, and he says he wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u186	That is why I am making this proposal. If the possibility of applying for asylum is created in all the embassies in the vicinity, refugees no longer need human traffickers to whom they have to pay a lot of money. This means that people will, of course, be willing to apply for asylum. It will also be granted. This will give us a huge influx of refugees into Europe. This puts enormous pressure on the support base in society, on the social security system, on the welfare state. That is exactly what Mrs Gesthuizen is afraid of: racial tensions. That is precisely what I want to avoid, and that is why I am making this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u187	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to respond to the plan presented by GroenLinks. We propose that, in the event of distressing situations, people should be able to apply for asylum at embassies. It will, of course, be tested. The image that Mr Azmani calls for so many millions to come here is just bullshit. As Mrs Gesthuizen rightly points out, he contributes to the image that is absolutely wrong. That's exactly how he creates the tension. That we hear that from the PVV, okay, but I'd really expect the biggest party here, a party in the cabinet, to have a better look at the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u188	This is absurd. In my view, the selection should consider whether someone has to fear persecution within the meaning of the Refugee Convention rather than distressing situations. That means de facto that all Syrians who apply for asylum are admitted to an embassy in the vicinity, isn't it? I would like to ask Mrs Voortman again whether that means that all Syrians are being taken in. Or does GroenLinks want to make a selection in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u189	I have made it very clear that we are dealing with harrowing situations and with specific groups. I do want people in the region to be well and decently taken care of. That is something Mr Azmani does not do. He claims to be able to ensure that everyone can be taken care of in the region, but he completely ignores the fact that the shelter there is now pitiful. If we want to ease the pressure there, we need to show a little more solidarity. Mr Azmani talks about solidarity, but he does not even know what the word means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u190	Solidarity is certainly only appropriated by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It is not solidarity if you keep a system in the air that is intended only for the rich and where the poor can choke. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u191	The Secretary of State has indicated that it will take some time to prepare his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u192	Mr. Chairman. It's nice to have an evening debate in my first week. Maybe it'll even be night work. I promise I will not contribute to that by holding very long papers. I could agree with Mr van der Staaij's typification, namely that this is mainly a kind of note-taking in the plenary, i.e. between the parties. That is not possible without the presence of a member of the cabinet. I am therefore pleased that some questions have been asked and will be happy to answer them. I've heard a lot tonight. Everyone shares the observation that there are problems and challenges. Everyone also has their own solutions. Still, there are some mean divisors. I think we can agree on the general principles, namely that we want better protection of refugees and that we want to prevent migrants from taking risky trips across the Mediterranean. There have also been many proposals that I can recognise as appropriate to cabinet policy. Sometimes they're not exactly the same, but they're in the same line. I explained this in a letter this afternoon. I will not read it, but it shows that we share many things and efforts. For example, reception in the region is crucial; that is why the cabinet is committed to it. The European asylum system needs to be further harmonised. We will pull it hard. The Chamber will hear a lot from us when we respond to the European Agenda for Migration, which will come in May. We must prevent people from drowning in the Mediterranean. And we need to tackle people smugglers, who take advantage of people's emergency situations, firmly. Of course, opinions differ on how we can achieve these goals. The political groups do not always agree with the policy of the cabinet; and the other way around, we do not always accept their proposals. We take as an important starting point that it must be effective and fit in with the wider European context and with the other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u193	Between the nose and the lips, the cabinet's commitment to the new European asylum policy was announced. Everyone thinks that the current European asylum policy is stalled, so it is a good thing that the cabinet is working on it. I was wondering where I could find a coherent letter, in which the cabinet made that commitment clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u194	I announced not so much a commitment as a response to the European agenda, i.e. to the letter coming from Europe. The cabinet will respond to that. I myself found today's letter to give a rather coherent picture of cabinet policy. And of course we are discussing this commitment in the preparation of each JHA Council. It will focus mainly on reception in the region, on further alignment of European policies and on a more equal distribution of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u195	With the previous Secretary of State, we had reached a crucial point for the change in European asylum policy. It had to do with a proportional distribution of the number of asylum seekers among the European countries. I remember very well that the previous Secretary of State said that was quite a knot and a struggle. He was working on that, but there were pros and cons. I think that the Dutch Government must come up with a position on this very quickly, because we are moving on in the European circuits. Can the Secretary of State undertake to come and talk to the Chamber separately or within the framework of the JHA Council, at least somewhere between now and six weeks from now? The previous Secretary of State was not yet out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u196	Neither does this Secretary of State, in the sense that he does not regard this as an end in itself. Such a mechanism can be an effect tool in a palette of other measures, but not one thing can be highlighted as an end in itself. I think that the approach and the way the Netherlands looks at it are clear. The next step is for the European Commission to put down its proposals, which it has been working on for some time now, and then to start working on them to see what there is support for and how we can achieve a coherent system of which this could be a part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u197	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u198	I've clustered the questions. The first cluster is about European borders and human trafficking. Among other things, Mr Oskam and Mr Voordewind asked what is needed to close the borders, as advocated in the VVD note. I have not made a detailed study of it, because it is not a proposal from the cabinet. So we have not worked out how it should be done either. Nor does it seem to me that it is really up to the cabinet to work this out, because we do not foresee that we will present this plan to the Chamber during this cabinet period. Mr Oskam asked a question on Italy's proposals for Search and Rescue (SAR). The Netherlands is in principle in favour of the neighbouring countries of Libya, for example, taking responsibility for monitoring at sea. Each country is responsible for Search and Rescue itself. Due to circumstances, Libya cannot itself undertake sufficient activities in its own zone. Neighboring countries can take more responsibility. The idea is that Tunisia and Egypt can do more and that they will also be offered more financial and technical resources. This cabinet considers that too premature. It is important that we first look at what these neighbouring countries can do and what their capacities and resources are, before we anticipate any contribution to them. Then I come to Mr Van der Staaij's question on how to deal with human trafficking and the use of the Netherlands. It is a priority of this cabinet to combat trafficking in human beings. It is, of course, perverse to take advantage of the despair of people in extreme need and to offer them a path that is often even more eldier in practice than the situation in which they are already in. The Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Marechaussee and the National Police are therefore co-ordinated to examine the travel routes and methods of operation of smugglers, facilitators and travel agents. Anyone who has a role, even if it is a little smaller than the one who has the most left, we need to tackle and map. This includes the experiences of asylum seekers. There are patterns distilled from them, which are then combated. The prosecution is, of course, responsible for the prosecution of human smugglers. In the letter of 19 May last year, the Chamber was more widely informed about the measures taken by the Netherlands. Recently, a liaison officer was placed in Rome to exchange more information with Italy, which is an important axis in this spectrum, and to gain a better mutual understanding of the procedures. Then I come to the question by Mrs Kikken and Mr Voordewind about the mandate of the Triton operation and the resources of the operation. How does Triton relate to Mare Nostrum? Triton is now being executed according to a mandate from Frontex. Its primary role is to support Member States' border management and border surveillance. If you expand that operation Triton, it stays within that operation. At present, the Netherlands is contributing to this. This contribution will be extended shortly. If we are asked to extend this contribution further in the future, we will consider it. There is a bit of semantics occasionally when it comes to saving people. It happens. That is a duty, whether it is a primary objective or not. The effect of the border surveillance mission is that people are saved when there's a distress signal. Perhaps that effect is more important than the question of whether it is a goal in advance. Mr Oskam asked whether Frontex's budget was adequate. Frontex receives an annual budget from European funds. This year it received approximately 114 million. Frontex itself states that it can carry out the annual plan and that the budget is therefore sufficient at the moment. As long as it is, we're not gonna ask Frontex if it can use any more. Mr Oskam also asked about the status of Eurosur, the European surveillance system that has been operational in all Member States since December 2014. This system should contribute to better management of all migratory flows, by limiting irregular migrants who can reach Schengen unnoticed, protecting the lives of illegal migrants, reducing the loss of lives at sea through better Search and Rescue at the European Union's maritime borders and improving the Union's internal security by preventing cross-border crime at the external borders. It is now more than previously possible to share information and to act at an early stage at the external borders of the European Union. The second issue concerns treatment centres in third countries. Mr Oskam has asked for this. More than ten years ago, the debate on treatment centres in third countries at the external borders, or even in the countries themselves, took place. In Germany and Italy those sounds were last heard again. There is still no broad support for this in the European Union. The European Commission has not yet taken an official position. It is often a mix form, which creates a bit of tension with reception in the region. If reception in the region is the main objective, it is not obvious to have a counter to facilitate reception outside the region. The question is to what extent it takes the wind out of the sails of migration in those horrible boats. It has not been said, of course, that if someone were told in the country of departure that he was not eligible for refugee status, he would not try again. Many people who are now trying are also aware that they cannot be sure that they are eligible for refugee status.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u199	I'm going back to Triton and Mare Nostrum. The Secretary of State makes it look like they're in each other's corners, like it's a semantic discussion. It's about saving people. Isn't there a clear distinction between Triton's mandate and the mission before that? The mission had a mandate to save people throughout the Mediterranean. That mission was reduced and replaced, possibly because it cost a lot of money, by the Triton mission, which had as its core task the protection of the maritime borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u200	Mr Voordewind rightly points out that the difference lies not so much in what happens in practice on those boats, but in where they sail. They are heading closer to the European coast. How do you weigh this? That's a dilemma. It is difficult to estimate the final effect. The unintended side effect of Mare Nostrum...... was really not meant for that operation.. was that the quantity of the boats seemed to increase and the quality of the boats seemed to decrease. Eventually, you can measure it by the number of people we save, the number of people that don't die. If the effect is that fewer people make an attempt that does not require rescue and there are no death cases, this may prove to be a more effective method. So the difference is mostly where the boats sail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u201	Yeah, that was the difference. We've seen the consequences of that. At the time, 150,000 people were saved on the Mediterranean. We can't do that anymore, because the focus and scope are much smaller. Of course, that is not the solution and it can indeed have an astringent effect. However, you must do both: ensure that people do not drown and that EU asylum policy is harmonised. You don't have to leave one and bet the other. That is my appeal to the cabinet to harmonise EU policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u202	The latter is, of course, also an objective: discouragement. Discouragement of people who want to cross the border can be encouraged by making it clear that after the crossing there is no prospect of legal residence. You must also discourage the smugglers from putting people on such a boat in very bad conditions with the idea: as long as we get a little close to the area where Mare Nostrum was carried out, it will be fine. Another big difference is that Triton under Frontex is a European operation. Mare Nostrum was mostly Italian. You have to take that into account, too. I think that we still have an operation now, and that is what the Netherlands is also contributing to, which has the effect of saving people. It's hard to estimate in advance what would be better. Do you have to let a lot of people cross the road, where you have to save a lot of people, or is it better when this operation is no longer in its old form, when fewer people venture the crossing and therefore do not need to be saved because they are not in that difficult situation? That could also be an effect. I come to the reception in the region by the UNHCR in particular. We have been asked how much money the Netherlands spends on it and how much money has been made available for it. In 2015, this is a Dutch core contribution of 33 million euros to UNHCR. In addition, there are other contributions through joint international organisations and UNHCR in the context of the Syrian crisis in particular. The UNHCR budget is never fully covering. It's never fully stable either. In 2013, it was 5.3 billion dollars. In the same year, also because crises arose, especially in Syria, another 2.9 was pledged. Of course, there's not always the same thing coming in. In 2015, the budget is set at 6.2 billion dollars. So that's more. That is the UNHCR's budget right now. The Netherlands contributes to this in a structural way and also makes occasional contributions to requests arising from a specific crisis. Mrs Voortman and Mr Voordewind also asked if there would be more money for the reception in the region. Of course, you can always ask that if you refer to this as a spearhead, but I would like to point out the money that is already available for that, because it is a spearhead. It amounts to 33 million a year, but also 126 million specifically for Syrian refugees, which also gives the UNHCR a substantial contribution from the Netherlands, especially in comparison with other similar countries. The Netherlands is never at the bottom of the lists on this point. In the letter we sent to the Chamber today, it was also announced that a further letter from Mr Ploumen on the specific use of funds will be made in the coming months. Mr Oskam asked for concrete arrangements for safe reception in the region. It is a state-of-the-art government policy to strengthen the protection of refugees in the region. That is what we are doing, as I have said, through the UNHCR, the amounts I have just mentioned, and also through the support of a regional development and protection programme in the Middle East. Then I'll come to the resettlement. Several Members of Parliament have asked questions about this. At the moment, the cabinet remains at the figure of 500. I also think, quite frankly, that we should not be ashamed of that at all. Of course, there are countries that are doing more, but of course this is a structural effort that the Netherlands has been making for a very long time, while in other countries this is much more fluctuating. They now show a peak, but generally do much less. If you also look at the regular influx and what we already do in the regular way, you can see that the Netherlands contributes more than on average.It does its bit to provide shelter to refugees from all parts of the world and certainly also to those who have fled as a result of the conflict in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u203	It was actually a comment on the VVD plan. It said: now look at a possible extension of resettlement policy in extreme circumstances. I assume there is now an extreme circumstance in Syria. I say this also in response to the Secretary of State's own statements. He said: an adopted motion is an adopted motion, and it must be carried out. These two things have led me to expect that we could still carry out the motion of 250 Syrian refugees. If it is to be the commitment of this cabinet to consider how to prevent the boats, should the cabinet also be committed to a further extension of resettlement policy? That is also in the letter from the Secretary of State we received today. Hence my hopeful look at the Secretary of State on that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u204	Of course, it's always fun when you hear your own words. I would also like to thank Mr Schouw, who, in the first instance, drew my attention to the space that the cabinet always has in an adopted motion to find out for itself. I answered that question several times last Tuesday, and I said it very often: if a majority of the House adopts a motion and the Cabinet agrees with it, the motion will be carried out. I would like to say to Mr Schouw: do not be afraid, I will not forget that. I would like to say to Mr Voordewind: unfortunately, I will not forget that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u205	I thought that nuance was coming. I would like to comment on the quote from the Secretary of State's letter. He said that the cabinet was committed to an extension of resettlement policy and that it would appeal to other countries to do so. My specific question was: what will this commitment be for this year, for example, with regard to the invitation policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u206	It remains the same for the Netherlands. You can look at the whole spectrum of countries, including outside Europe, but, of course, within the European Union alone, there is a majority of countries that simply do nothing about it. There are also countries where, given their size, you can say: you can expect more from them. It would be strange for the Netherlands to call on other countries to do so if we ourselves were far below our own standards. However, we are not far below the mark. I don't think you should just look at that one number either. There is, among other things, the influx of Syrian refugees, who rightly seek a place here to secure their lives, a huge pressure on the regular influx and on the COA. So as a country, we do a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u207	The Secretary of State is talking about a commitment to resettlement, but in the meantime it looks like he's saying: we're gonna keep doing what we're doing now, we're not gonna do anything anymore. But when you call on other countries to do more, do you have to set an example yourself? Surely we can't say we're committed to resettlement, and then we're not doing anything extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u208	I think that's a bit of a tricky point. You think you should bet something. That's why you're doing something. And then every time you repeat that that's your bet, you should do more to make that happen. That's an ever-growing ambition. The Netherlands is not doing any worse than others. On the contrary, there are many countries that do nothing at all, so we are already setting a good example. There are also a lot of countries that do something, but occasionally. A country like Denmark, which has less inhabitants than the Netherlands, is at 140. Hungary's at 30. In Poland it is around 100. That while we're at 500. If these countries follow our example and other countries that are at zero follow our example, resettlement policy is much stronger than it is today. We can't do everything on our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u209	Other countries are opposed to this, which are doing significantly more. Think of Germany and Sweden. Of course, that way we can stay busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u210	Indeed, there are also countries that do more. Sometimes they do that occasionally. Some countries are also much larger. If you look all over the spectrum, you can see that the Netherlands is at a high level. We can, with good decency, draw other countries' attention to the importance of this policy. I've come to the status of displaced persons. The CDA has drawn attention to this. Mr Van der Staaij has also asked. Mr. Oskam said the judge said it wasn't necessary. That's how you look at it. We actually already have it, because asylum permits are always temporary in the first instance, so for a certain period of time. After five years, we look at the situation in the country of origin. The authorisation may then be revoked or not renewed or, if the situation so requires, renewed. These are obligations imposed by the EU directives. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether those permits would therefore be withdrawn by the IND. That is indeed done, but of course there are always cases where even after five years the country of origin is not safe enough. Then the permit will not be revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u211	I asked for particular attention to be paid to the implementation of that directive. In many European countries it should have been implemented years ago, but it still hasn't. I ask the Secretary of State to take that point to the JHA Council and put it on the agenda there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u212	This is about why the Temporary Protection Directive is not being used. This also depends a little on the condition of that directive itself, regardless of the implementation by Member States. These are exceptional provisions in the event of a massive influx into the European Union. If the Commission has proposed it, the Temporary Protection Directive may be brought into force by a decision of a qualified majority of the European Council. This has never happened, not only because of ratification but also because the Commission has never proposed it. That's step one. Similarly, Member States have never asked the Commission to bring the directive into force. That is mainly because, however it occasionally squeaks and cracks, it has not yet happened that the influx was suddenly so massive that the Member States could not cope together. That is also why this directive, which is in favour of a situation which has not yet occurred, has not been used in practice. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Oskam's question on the point system for immigration. He was right to say that the cabinet letter says that we are doing this, but we do not have a point system. That is why the letter also states that the cabinet is partly carrying it out and that we have some of it. We do not have a point system, but we do have a different way of demand-driven labour migration policy, namely the primary system. It looks at the needs of Dutch society and the needs of the labour market. There are also elements of supply-driven policies, which consider whether a person making an application has specific qualifications, for example through the self-employed scheme, which makes him eligible. In the eyes of the cabinet, the system we now have is a good balance between what the Netherlands needs and what migrant workers and knowledge migrants can contribute. We do not now need a point system to make it work better in practice for our country. Then I come to Mr Oskam's question about the JHA Council and the implementation of asylum legislation, regardless of the one directive we were just discussing. We have these guidelines and agreements for a reason. Of course, you have to implement it. That's not always easy. In the Netherlands we also like to spend a bit longer implementing certain European directives. There are also guidelines that we would like to interpret. In the end, however, each country must implement these directives in order to ensure a level playing field within the EU. If we do not do so, we will not achieve the objective of ensuring that similar asylum applications in different European countries lead to the same outcome. Apart from the fact that we can say this at every meeting of the twenty points that we can address, it is important that the European Commission is the guardian of this process. It is precisely the European Commission that is responsible for monitoring compliance with legislation in the European Union. I'd like to leave that primary role there. Mr Oskam also asked about the added value of the EASO. The EASO plays an important role in harmonising Member States' asylum systems in order to achieve a common asylum policy. The point is that an application in country A is treated in the same way and has the same outcome as in country B within the Union. This is done, among other things, through training of national asylum officials, data analysis of the asylum influx and emergency assistance to Member States that need it if they cannot comply with European asylum rules on their own. We also have exchanges, such as those mentioned earlier in Rome, where countries help each other and exchange experts. Then I come to Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks' question about the fair distribution of asylum seekers within the EU. Ultimately, there must be a level playing field between Member States at European level. That starts with implementing the asylum legislation as it is now and working towards further harmonisation in practice. The point is that it is not only the same on paper, but also in practice. The influx of asylum seekers into the European Member States is high, but not evenly distributed among the Member States. There are solutions to bring more balance to that. The Netherlands also benefits, I say honestly, because we are not exactly dangling at the bottom. That also helps with the support. The interests are, of course, diverse. I will not pretend that we will have such a system soon. A numerical redistribution is the best means, but its feasibility is of course difficult. There are countries, such as the Netherlands, where many asylum seekers are received above average. Other countries do not have so many real refugees, but many illegal migrants that they suffer from and others do not have either. With them, the pressure to do something and move is the smallest. That makes it a complicated puzzle. If you feel that we should do something with all those Member States, then the question becomes how to do that is a complicated puzzle. We will continue to work on it, and we will continue to explore the cure. But I would like to remove the illusion that this is something with which we have an important solution within a few months. I think I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u213	I also asked about the possibility of giving people the opportunity to apply for asylum through EU ambassadors. I have outlined two short-term and long-term options. Would the Secretary of State be able to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u214	As I said, there is a general tension between the use of shelter in the region and the creation of a reception desk outside the region in the same region. That is why the cabinet is not in favour of this. It also poses all kinds of practical problems, even if you would do it EU-wide. This is the main point why I'm not really excited about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u215	The Secretary of State also indicated that you should take a package of measures. You can't bet everything on one measure. Surely this could clearly be part of a wider package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u216	You have to support every measure in the package. Preferably, there should be no measures that would disprove each other. The impression is created that with such a system you can prevent people from starting such a difficult journey, but I am not convinced of that. Many people who are starting such a journey now also know that the chances of refugee status are not so great. If people get zero on the record when applying according to the model Mrs Voortman wants, people won't think: oh, too bad. Then there's still the risk that people will think: then I'll have to try it in an illegal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u217	I really don't understand it anymore, because this would mean that the Secretary of State says: there is no point in closing borders for refugees at all, because an illegal flow of people will always be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u218	It's a little academic, but the only way to avoid any attempt at illegal entry of a country is by having no borders and no restrictions. Then it can't be illegal, because then it's okay. In practice there will always be a flow, but of course that does not mean that there are no means to discourage that flow or to ensure that there are as few victims as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u219	I understand that, but my question was very specific: does the Secretary of State therefore qualify the VVD plan? If I have heard him correctly, he has just said that Mrs Voortman's plan makes no sense at all, because people will be disappointed that they will not get a residence permit after all or will not be recognised as a refugee and will do it illegally. Then it never matters whether or not you close your Dutch or your European borders to refugees. People will always cross the street illegally. Then the qualification of the VVD-plan is: nice try, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u220	Then there is tension between having a dense border and excluding someone from trying to get in despite that dense border and border surveillance. That's as old as borders, customs and border surveillance. As long as there are, there will be attempts to get out of those borders anyway. It is a bit hypothetical for me to philosophize about closing the European external borders for real refugees, because that is not a cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u221	About the motion of Buma, Pechtold and Van der Staaij. The Prime Minister said: I prefer the Secretary of State to do so. We have met the wishes of the VVD and have now changed that. The VVD also supports the motion. The Secretary of State says that this motion is part-standing policy, but not entirely. Is he gonna be okay with that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u222	Yes. The motion has not been tabled for this debate, but I have been able to take a look at it. I feel the motion as a support for standing policy, and if I am allowed to keep the coordination about the portfolio and the responsibility that has been given to me, I do like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u223	However, I would like a little clarification on the rejection of the Secretary of State. With regard to registration in the region, the Secretary of State says that there is no point, because they will come, but it is unique that the people who are coming now, Syrians and Iraqis, get 95% status. If you would register that in the region itself, we have an advantage, because then you can really do Burden-sharing at the gate. Well, that does have an advantage, doesn't it? It's in the VVD's proposal, it's in the GroenLinks proposal and I hear it otherwise, so why wouldn't the Secretary of State see it as an improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u224	Registering in the region for reception in the region, but then someone is really looking for shelter and a safe port there, and also getting it there through the UNHCR. This is different from a point of contact there for the registration of reception outside the region. Then, of course, you will also get a large group of people who would not go to a refugee camp, because they are not necessarily on the run because otherwise they could go there because they were looking for a stay here, for economic reasons or at least for reasons other than asylum. If that is the approach, being able to apply on the spot does not, of course, mean that an attempt to cross is not made in the event of a rejection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u225	If you do register in the region itself, it is much better to make a selection of people, especially the most vulnerable people, from whom you say: we would like to receive them. Of course, that is separate from the fact that you could take care of it in the region. The resettlement policy is an example of this. Just if you register it centrally in the region itself, if you register it instead of here in Europe, you could extend resettlement policy much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u226	One of the effects of resettlement policy is that reception in the region becomes more portable by highlighting the most apparent cases. That is a process that runs through the UNHCR. The UNHCR initially catches up with people and tells other countries that it is better to accommodate certain people outside the region. That system is there, and I'm not against it either. I just don't want to put anything wrong. It would help if many other countries that can carry it would come to the Dutch level of resettlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u227	If, given the situation in Syria, you already know that a large proportion of Syrian refugees get a status when they report to the Netherlands, then what is wrong with carrying out the test immediately if these people report to a country outside the EU? At least at that time they come here in a legal, safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u228	You're actually asking: why don't we bring everyone who gets into a regular shelter here? That bites with the objective of reception in the region. We may think differently about this, but we particularly want care in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u229	Then the Secretary of State did not fully understand my proposal. As far as I am concerned, these are specific groups, groups in which there is a distressing situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u230	So that is where you have the route of reception in the region and resettlement programmes through the UNHCR. Mrs Voortman talks about people in a specific situation. I understand her in such a way that not everyone eligible for refugee status in her system is eligible for reception here. We already have such a system. Then let us not put the same system next to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u231	This has put an end to the government's first term. I just feel like there's a need for a second term. Mrs Voortman has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u232	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a useful debate. Almost universally, the VVD proposal to close EU borders for asylum seekers from outside the EU has been referred to waste. I think that's a good point. That is a gain from this proposal. I see Mr Azmani nodding too. It is good that there may still be a progressive understanding. I have heard from various groups what needs to be done. That's important, too. If you call out that a particular plan is not a good idea, as a representative of the people, you have an expensive duty to say what you want. I would like to make two proposals on this subject, which I hope will enable us to take at least one step in order to improve the situation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of displaced persons from war areas remains high and that the number of people seeking asylum in Europe increased further in 2014;]] [[Considering that migrants are still dying on a life-threatening trip to the EU across the Mediterranean, popping up reception camps in the region and making money from refugees for smugglers;]] [[believes that people fleeing war and violence should and should have a safe haven in the Netherlands and the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government, in view of the European Commission's position on migration, to use the following elements:]] [[a common European asylum policy and ensuring asylum protection and decent reception in all Member States;]] [[investing and promoting good reception in the region;]] [[a humanitarian mission in the Mediterranean Sea to monitor not only border surveillance but also to save the lives of refugees;]] [[a European resettlement policy with the participation of all Member States;]] [[using it to create a system of safe and legal migration;]] [[a tough and effective approach to trafficking in human beings;]] [[and all this with the protection of refugees and the prevention of unnecessary and unsafe migration as a goal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas illegal migration is mainly due to the lack of legal migration opportunities;]] [[Considers that it should be possible for the most vulnerable and needy refugees to contact EU diplomatic posts for assistance so that they can come to safe territory without the involvement of smugglers;]] [[calls on the Government to create the possibility for verifiable refugees in need to apply for a humanitarian visa at Dutch diplomatic posts on the basis of which it is legally possible to travel to the Netherlands in order to apply for asylum;]] [[calls on the Government also to work within the EU to establish a common policy on the application of humanitarian visas to European diplomatic posts in crisis areas and a balanced resettlement of refugees with such humanitarian visas across EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1960]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1961]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u233	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the speedy and comprehensive response. I was recently with Mrs Gesthuizen at Europol, among others. This brings me to the next point, namely the cooperation between Frontex and Europol. It seems that it is going to be rather difficult. I'd like to know what the Secretary of State knows about that. Officials supervising data protection now seem to need two months to shape and approve the limited working arrangements that exist. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if he recognizes that course of action. Why is the agreement that both organisations have concluded to improve this has not yet been approved by the European Data Protection Supervisor? Does the Secretary of State share the view that it is important for Europol and Frontex to be able to exchange information promptly? Can he use his influence with the supervisor to approve that agreement as soon as possible? Let me look back at the debate. In his contribution, Mr Azmani indicated that he went beyond cabinet policy with his plans. That's what's good for him. At the same time, he pretends that CDA, D66 and SGP support his plans through the motion tabled by Mr Buma, Mr Pechtold and Mr Van der Staaij. However, it is not clear from this motion that these three parties want to close Europe's external borders. On the contrary, I'd say. We seek solutions as parties. The measures are in motion. The CDA stands for a strict and humane asylum policy. Last weekend media attention was embarrassed by the conclusion that the external borders could be closed. However, this is not reflected in the measures proposed by Mr Azmani. So my conclusion is that the balloon that was let up this weekend was punctured tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u234	Mr. Chairman. In the debate of the big pierced balloons, I simply have my second term. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I think a lot of things have been cleared up. However, two things have not yet happened. The first is, of course, the question of what the role of now State Secretary and rather Member of Parliament Klaas Dijkhoff in the implementation of this plan has been. We'll never find out if the Secretary of State doesn't bring that up here of his own free will. So that's what we keep guessing. The second thing that remains a mystery is whether legislation and regulations need to be changed, including international conventions, if you want to implement the idea of closing Europe's external borders to refugees and, if so, which ones. That mystery will have to be solved in the near future. My group takes a different view on this than the VVD Group. We are convinced that, if you really mean that, you will have to change a large number of treaties. I have two motions. One is about the fair key. I don't blame the Secretary of State for going over that lightly, because he can't know everything. However, he must understand that the Chamber appreciates knowing the fruit of the thought exercise that its predecessor had really promised to the Chamber. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the number of asylum seekers entering the EU is disproportionately divided;]] [[calls on the Government to make an active commitment at EU level to achieve a more fair distribution of asylum seekers within the EU and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the conclusion of the European external borders does not relate to international conventions such as the Refugee Convention, to which the Netherlands is bound;]] [[calls on the Government to fully commit itself to a strict, fair and humane asylum policy in which the European external borders are not closed to refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1962]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw, Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1963]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u235	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to use my second term to file one motion. Its contents, of course, speak for themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch citizen has recently been made happy with many dead sparrows, ranging from recovering €1,000 to maintaining the mortgage interest rate deduction;]] [[noting that these empty promises always come from the VVD side;]] [[noting that this trend is continuing, it has also been erroneously indicated that the said party intends to stop the asylum influx;]] [[points out that it is now time to put an end to the deception of the citizen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1964]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u236	Mr. Chairman. If one thing has become clear in this debate, it is that we all agree that Europe's borders should not be closed. If Mr Azmani had taken that line out of his plan, I think we would have had a very constructive conversation with him. After all, Mr Azmani's other ideas are very close to what I believe we all want in the Chamber, namely to harmonise asylum policy in Europe and to see how we could encourage reception in the region. In order to make that even clearer, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the war situation in Syria and Iraq has led to millions of innocent civilians fleeing;]] [[having noted that the Netherlands annually invites around 500 refugees from the most vulnerable category to come to the Netherlands and that this group is subject to an accelerated resettlement procedure;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of increasing the number of refugees invited,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind and Mr Schouw. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1965]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u237	A second motion concerns Frontex. It calls on the government to see if we can't achieve a more robust mission for Triton. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014 alone, some 3,500 migrants died on their way to Europe in the Mediterranean Sea;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to make the Frontex Triton programme more robust in order to reduce migration flows and save more lives, and to present concrete plans for this before the start of the Dutch Presidency of the European Union in early 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1966]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u238	The final motion concerns this important reception in the region. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a record number of 626,000 asylum seekers came forward in the European Union in 2014;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of strengthening reception in the region;]] [[calls on the Government also, in all possible ways, to address the Gulf States to the shared responsibility to mitigate this unprecedented humanitarian need by including asylum seekers and also financially supporting reception in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind and Mr Schouw. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1967]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u239	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is in charge of this coalition. The Labour Party dictates asylum and immigration policy, and the VVD is good at it. Hans Wiegel said it well, we see here the defeat strategy of the VVD. This VVD Secretary of State dares, as expected, not to burn his fingers on this VVD asylum proposal. That's too bad for the Netherlands. Our country is longing for a strict asylum and immigration policy. For example, 52% think that the current policy is too easy for terrorists to find their way to the Netherlands. I'm rounding up. We are waiting with great interest for the next VVD test balloon, which can then be pricked again by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u240	Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a constructive debate with each other. I also think it is a good thing that we are having this debate. As has already been said, I was surprised that there were parties who could not wait to table a motion and did so in the first debate held by the Chamber this week. I'm happy about that. These are measures to achieve the ultimate result. How do you turn or turn, if you want to avoid problems, I mention the ever-increasing influx, the human dramas, the human smuggling industry and security: are you dealing with a refugee, an economic fortune seeker or a terrorist? There is only one answer to this: to stop the magnetic effect of the system we use in Europe. That system is not solidarity, it is not social, but it is unsustainable. I hope the Secretary of State will take on an exciting role. On the basis of the motions previously tabled by three group leaders, I hope that there will be a majority in the Chamber. In doing so, we are contributing to what we believe, even after this debate, is the solution to all these social problems. Time will tell. In the end, the pressure will be so high that more parties will draw the conclusion, and dare to name it politically, that we must stop the asylum system in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u241	This brings to an end the second term of office. I have happy news: the Secretary of State intends to respond directly to the motions tabled in his first debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u242	Mr. Chairman. Apart from the motions, I must also address Mr Oskam's question. He asked about the agreement between Europol and Frontex. The Parties may exchange personal data. The proposal for a cooperation agreement still needs to be submitted to the European Data Protection Supervisor in order to verify whether this is going well. The deadlines are set in European legislation. I do think it is important that the cooperation agreement should also be carefully drawn up. Speed is important, but we must wait for the advice of the European supervisor, as we also wrote in the letter of 11 March. After all, we must respond to the privacy aspects. I come to the motions, starting with the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman/Kuiks on part No. 1960. I recognize myself in a lot of what it says, in the intentions anyway, and also in a number of measures. I share the ambition of a harmonised asylum policy in the European Union. Of course, I share the commitment to combating trafficking in human beings, as well as giving priority to good reception in the region. On two points, I hesitate. If I give it my own interpretation, I can live with it, but I don't know if that's the same interpretation as the proposers'. By a humanitarian EU mission in the Mediterranean with the aim of saving lives, I would also understand what we are doing now. If it is really intended that what we are doing now will be changed, I must discourage the motion on that point. It is a mission that Search and Rescue does, but not a mission that has that as its main task. The main task is border surveillance, because the competence of Search and Rescue and its responsibility lie primarily with the individual Member States and must remain there. On the question of the commitment to a system of safe and legal migration, I would say that we already have this system in my view for knowledge migration and other forms of migration. I said that earlier in response to Mr Oskam's questions. We also have systems for safe and legal migration for people who come here and apply for asylum. If that means the systems that I have referred to as 'the reception desk in the region outside the region', then I must advise against the motion. It is therefore contrary to government policy. So it depends a little on the weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u243	There are now two judgments before it, depending on the interpretation. I think it's wise that there should be some clarification on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u244	We are talking for a reason about the purpose of saving the lives of refugees. In that sense, the Secretary of State is reading the motion correctly. Well, then it's a shame he wouldn't recommend the motion for that reason. We do not believe that there is sufficient commitment to establish a system for safe and legal immigration. Otherwise, we wouldn't put it as "to come to a system."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u245	That is very clear: then I must discourage the motion. You can't have everything right away. The Voortman/Voordewind motion in part No. 1961, I also advise against it. It does not relate to the intention to focus on protection in the region. Resettlement policies already provide for the possibility of reporting through UNHCR for reception in third countries. If I make the motion-Schouw/Voordewind in part no. 1962 read, it seems a little redundant to me. In fact, we are committed to a policy that leads to the more even bearing of the burden of receiving asylum seekers or the more equal enjoyment of the virtue of being allowed to do so, depending on the view. I consider this motion unnecessary. The same applies to the motion-Schouw c.s. in piece No. 1963.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u246	Does "absolutely" mean you're dissuading the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u247	The motion also supports the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u248	Judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u249	Yes. In the motion-Schouw c.s. the government is urged to fully commit itself to a strict, fair asylum policy and to ensure that the borders are not closed. I consider this motion to be superfluous in the context. I dissuade her because I have already put it so firmly that I think: well, if it comes in a motion, it is no longer support but a double. Then I find the motion really superfluous and I must advise her against it. That's not something we need an incentive to do. There's already a point in front of the cabinet. At the Fritsma motion in part No. 1964 I would almost give points for creativity, but yet I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u250	With all due respect to the Secretary of State, the motion does not contain a request to the government but calls for a Chamber decision. It would be sporting for the Secretary of State to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u251	The Secretary of State as an advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u252	The Chamber may, of course, take my advice in the wind. Is this how we're gonna do it? On the content of the Voordewind/Schouw motion in part No. 1965, we've had it extensive. We disagree on that. For that reason, I will also advise against it. We're sticking to the current number. We can only talk about the 500 all the time, but besides that there's an influx of 30,000 people that we catch. Of course, that number is a lot bigger. Then I come to the Voordewind motion in part No. 1966. We do want to look at strengthening capacity, but not extending the mandate, so I advise against this motion. The same was true of the motion in part No. 1960. Then I come to the Voordewind/Schouw motion on part No. 1967. The first element, reception in the region, is state-of-the-art policy. After reading the second element, I come to the conclusion that I share the opinion of both sides. It's not like the Gulf States are doing nothing. Kuwait has already provided financial support with $633 million since 2012, Qatar $237 and Saudi Arabia $570 million. I am not saying that it would not be welcome for them to do more, or to take care of it, but I do not think it is necessarily up to us to make it a priority to keep calling on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u253	That, in turn, is a difference between this Secretary of State and the previous Secretary of State. He emphasized that he wanted to encourage the Gulf States to do so. It is true that there will be a financial contribution, but if you look at the number of refugees received, then the previous Secretary of State did not go beyond six. It is not so much a new spearhead as an encouragement. If we take responsibility for investing in the region, it would also be good if the Gulf States did so. If that is the breaking point, I am also prepared to withdraw that last request, because I am particularly concerned about the first request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u254	That's state-of-the-art policy. It says: explore the possibilities of strengthening reception in the region. That in turn raises the question of what kind of research that should be. We're doing it. In that sense, I think this motion is superfluous. I can't quite tell what's behind that investigation. That's why I'm continuing to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-26.u255	We will be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. Thank you all very much for being here.
