ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file a motion against the experiment with PhD students. I find that experiment extremely undesirable. I also note that support for this proposal is minimal in the academic world. There are many universities that have spoken out against this experiment. If a participation council at a university decides against the experiment, does the Minister agree with me that this experiment at that institution should not be allowed to continue? I had a motion on this, but I decided to raise this point as a question, because I actually assume that the Minister, who is a great supporter of participation, agrees with me that the experiment should not proceed at that time. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government intends to conduct an experiment with as many as 2,000 student PhD students for eight years;]] [[Considers that PhD students are full-fledged employees who contribute to the core tasks of the university: teaching and research;]] [[Considers that student PhD students are significantly declining in terms of terms of employment;]] [[Considering that there is considerable resistance to the experiment, since trade unions, PhDs and participation councils have spoken out against it;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from experimenting with student PhD students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. It leaves nothing to be desired: the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has no need for this experiment. An experiment is done if you are reasonably assuming that this contributes to something positive. You're going to see if that assumption is actually the case in reality. Well, we see no added value to this experiment; we only see negative aspects. So you don't have to do the whole experiment. I will therefore wholeheartedly support Mr van Dijk's motion. If the majority of the House thinks that the experiment is on the table, then at least the extent of that experiment should be such that you can actually call it an experiment and that the damage we expect from such an experiment will not be too great. The number of 2,000 PhD students on the 8,000 we're actually talking about in this group is wrong. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to introduce an experiment on promotional education based on a maximum of 10% of the total number of PhD students in the academic year;]] [[Considering that the calculation of the total number of PhD candidates includes the external PhD candidates, while student PhD candidates are always employed by a university;]] [[Considers that in the case of a major experiment there is a real risk of displacement of employee PhD candidates;]] [[calls on the Government not to include PhD students in the calculation of the scale of the experiment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u3	Mr. Chairman. To be quite clear, we are very much in favour of this experiment. More PhD students are needed for the knowledge-based economy, and we want to take several steps in this direction. That is why we have also worked for industrial doctorates, for example, and that we are now committed to promoting students. This system is not new at all. In fact, we stand alongside a country such as Bosnia-Herzegovina in the current situation, while 32 countries in Europe already have this system. If you adopt this system, you will be in the same line as countries like Finland, Germany, Norway, Switzerland, Sweden and so on. So this is not a new system at all. Instead of being on the lousy list alongside Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are now going to go along with other countries in Europe that are working on this. The motion of the SP and D66 to withdraw this is equivalent to standstill and fear, but that is what we are used to from these two parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u4	It seems to me that we are in lists of countries where we also have PhD students, but should we not be in lists of countries where the best research is done? On those lists, the Netherlands is just above the countries that have just been mentioned. Does Mr Duisenberg not agree with me that, if we do this, it will damage the quality of research in the Netherlands and undermine our international position, as has just been underlined by 4,000 signatures in the presentation of the petition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u5	This does not harm the quality of the research. Nor is it the case where this system is now being applied. To make another comparison: we may have a lot of citations, but we are in the tail group of the OECD as a whole when it comes to people in the knowledge economy who have been promoted. I'd like to do something about that. For a knowledge-based economy, you need high-quality knowledge everywhere, not just in universities. These people must then also work in society and in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u6	This is where we're really getting to the core. The VVD says it stands for progress, but it can't cost anything. Of course we agree that it would be good if there were more PhD candidates in the Netherlands, but because the VVD doesn't want to pay the bill, a system is being devised in which you as a student have to pay tuition fees and then you can still be happy that you can study. That is the real core of this experiment. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u7	That's right. What I hear here is bullshit. Fairs are indeed being made available. It's a very good system. Of course, you are being bombarded by left-wing lobby groups who say it is bad for workers' rights and so on, but many students can focus on doing PhD research and are therefore happy with this system. That's what you hear from the 32 countries where that system has been in place for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u8	I would ask the speakers not to challenge each other unnecessarily. Otherwise, I'm gonna have a problem maintaining the interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u9	Can I take that as an invitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u10	No no! That's what I was trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u11	Of course, the VVD has the right to be in favour of an unholy experiment, whereby PhD students, full employees, are demoted to students and, so to speak, lose all their labour rights. Does Mr Duisenberg at least recognise that he is in the process of defending an experiment that has zero point zero support? Maybe that's just a few university boards, but that's getting less and less! Does he recognize that there is little support for this experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u12	I also put my ear to listen to other parts of society. You have been listening lately in certain corners, you have been listening for a long time, but I am also listening to other parts of society. I think there's a lot of support for this. I also dispute that this will be at the expense of, for example, aio positions. I see an opportunity here to get more proofs. That is my goal: more knowledge in our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u13	Mr Duisenberg believes that there is much more support, but he does not further explain it. I'm finding this is an empty shell, unless he comes up with hard numbers now. I find that the support is minimal. We have received a petition today, and I believe that Mr Duisenberg was not present with PhD candidates, trade unions and participation councils who are not waiting for this at all. Does Mr Duisenberg recognize that he now wants to impose from above an experiment that has zero point zero support, and that it is therefore simply a policy of power that he is now pushing this through?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u14	Mr Van Dijk, you are now quoting a section of society that may not be so welcome. I would like to participate in the movement of the peoples. You'd have to be on that, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u15	There is an interruption by Mr Grashoff. May I ask Mr Duisenberg to speak through the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u16	If you were to assume that such an experiment makes sense and if you do so with 2,000 PhD students on a total group of 8,000, isn't the experiment excessively large and excessively long? Isn't there a phased introduction rather than an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u17	The actual content is not as great as Mr Grashoff thinks. I don't think it's excessive. As far as I'm concerned, this wasn't an experiment at all, but it was just directly laid down in the law. I think it's too small. Again, we call it an experiment, but the Czech Republic, Estonia, Ireland, Latvia, Scotland, Denmark, Austria, Finland, Germany, Norway and Sweden already have this system. It's not new at all, but we're a little cold feet, at least some of the parties here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u18	I can only conclude that Mr Duisenberg agrees with me that there is a disguised introduction and not an experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u19	Mr Duisenberg, I did not hear a question, but you are always able to respond. No? Excellent. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u20	Mr. Chairman. The quality of scientific research in the Netherlands will certainly decrease as a result of this experiment. That became clear when the petition was offered. The influx of foreign talent that chooses our beautiful system for the Netherlands will therefore decrease. That is one of the many reasons why I wholeheartedly support Mr Van Dijk's motion. This experiment should actually stop, but let's assume the unlikely event that the motion doesn't make it. Then I still have some improvements for the experiment, which leads to the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that participation bodies already have the right to consent to various rules necessary for participation in the PhD experiment;]] [[Whereas this means by way of a detour right of consent in participation in the experiment;]] [[Whereas it is more practical and clearer to have direct consent;]] [[calls on the Government to give the participation bodies the right of assent with regard to participation in the promotional education experiment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-469]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u21	The second motion is intended to put an end to the lack of clarity about the level of a promotional grant. Universities can still do so in all directions, and we do not want to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that universities themselves can determine the level of the PhD grant;]] [[Whereas this may lead to the undesirable situation where there are large differences between employee PhD students and PhD students;]] [[whereas the agreements with VSNU concern only promotional students who receive their grant entirely from the profiling fund;]] [[calls on the Government, in the experiment, to lay down minimum requirements for the level of the PhD grant for all PhD students, so that it is at least no lower than that of employee PhD students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u22	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a few general comments on the Dutch promotional system. At the core, that works well, but it does have some blind spots. These blind spots cannot be solved within the current framework. The Dutch promotion system has little connection with society and the labour market. Today, we train PhD students mainly for a scientific career, and Mr Duisenberg has rightly pointed this out, while most of them do not work in science. Promotional education can make that connection with society. It appeals to the PhD student in his development of generic skills and supports his orientation on the labour market. Promotional education is part of the third cycle, a third cycle shared by the Bologna countries. There are three of them who don't know about a third cycle. These are the Netherlands, Denmark and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have to say that in the Netherlands we are still not getting enough out of the development of our students during that third cycle. I disagree with Mr Van Meenen that the Dutch promotional system offers enough promotion spots and therefore does not leave any talent unused. It's not like it's gonna make our investigation worse. I'd rather say it could get better, because more people can start a PhD research. More people can determine the content of their promotion themselves, something that is a great asset. I think there's more room for quirky and creative research. I can only imagine that this is also very appealing to Mr Van Meenen. It is the norm in other countries that the promotional system also has PhD students. We are now leaving talent unused and we are missing the international connection. That is why I would like to consider introducing that third cycle, but I would like to make it very clear: as an experiment. I think Mr Grashoff is far too premature. I don't know where he gets it, but he says it's a disguised introduction. It's not that. It is an experiment to find out what the advantages and possible disadvantages may be, and then we decide whether we will stop or, like all the other countries, introduce it definitively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u23	There is a question from Mr Van Meenen. I assume that the spokesmen have discussed the substance of this issue extensively in the AA. If you have a question about the response to your question or motion, you can, but we are watching time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u24	Very briefly. Of course, D66 believes that it is a very good thing that more people are given the opportunity to do PhD research. That's only good for everyone. Our problem is that this is going to happen under very different conditions than it is now. The strength of our system is also that people are attracted from abroad to do research in the Netherlands under the conditions we now know. In the petition offer, it has been pointed out in detail that there is a great risk there. Besides, it's really weird that people are going to do the same on different terms. Actually, it's for a dime in the first grade. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u25	No, I do not agree with Mr Van Meenen and that will not surprise him. It's just from what angle you look at it. If you look at it from international higher education, and I do that primarily, you will see that we are lagging behind other countries in the Bologna context. Because I know and realize that there may be disadvantages, I don't put it in one stone, but I do it as an experiment. I'm gonna follow what happens during that experiment. My expectation is that Mr Van Meenen will not be right with his objections. If so, I will not hesitate to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u26	I think it is an experiment to see if there are people who are so crazy to do the same thing on much worse terms as people who are now decently rewarding and giving decent working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u27	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u28	That's the point. These students get the status of student. The question is whether they should also pay tuition fees. It's really strange, but we'll see. The Minister will undoubtedly have her way today, but I am very concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u29	I'm not going to repeat too much. I have already made it clear that we want to see whether we can stimulate another course, with more PhD students, in line with international developments and promoting the labour market, and with more creative and self-designed research. I'm not deaf to the stories about the potential risks. We'll follow this. If the risks are too serious, then I have means to intervene in the interim. However, let us take a look at what is happening around us and not blind ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u30	Mr Grashoff has another question for you, I assume on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u31	My idea that the disguised introduction does not fall out of the sky is in the design of this experiment. If you do an experiment with such a large group in relation to the total population for eight years, the idea of a disguised introduction arises. When I reviewed that thought with one of the two coalition parties, I was fully confirmed in it. Does the Minister agree with me that if you are doing a serious experiment, you should do it on a more modest scale and within a more modest time frame?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u32	No. I shall come back to this point because Mr Grashoff has tabled a motion on this point. If you're doing an experiment, you have to make sure you can draw good conclusions from it, conclusions that can be substantiated. Let me get the motion right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u33	The motion in part No. 468.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u34	In that motion, the government is asked to exclude the outside PhD students and to limit the group in the calculation of the scope of the experiment. I do not think that is desirable. I am assuming 10% of the 20,000 PhD students we have in the Netherlands. That percentage is big enough to take seriously and be meaningful. The percentage is not so high that it can be called a disguised introduction. I think that is balanced. I therefore advise against the motion because it calls for the exclusion of non-graduates. The outside PhD students are covered by the experiment. Exactly how many there are is not known. However, we know that 10% is a reasonable number and that several universities want to participate. That's six at the moment, so that's a reasonable number to be meaningful. In addition, if things don't go well, we can always say no. There is therefore no disguised introduction. If the experiment shows that the results are different from what we think, for example because we are trying to pay people as little as possible improperly, which is not the intention, we can stop. I would also like to take up Mr Van Meenen's motion for a resolution on this subject. Take 470 with you. In that motion, the government is asked to lay down in the experiment minimum requirements for the amount of the PhD grant for all PhD students, so that in any case it is not lower than employee PhD candidates. I don't recommend that motion. By the way, I did talk to the VSNU. It has indicated that the universities will retain the net start-up salary of an employee PhD candidate at a full grant from the profiling fund. In doing so, Mr Van Meenen already has an important answer to his question. At the same time, I believe that customisation should be possible, for example in the case of part-time promotion or if a foreign PhD student himself brings a scholarship. I think it's going too far to record this. However, I will closely monitor how the universities deal with this. If the experiment is only used to save costs, I'll stop it. On the basis of the foregoing, I recommend the motion in part No. 470.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u35	Mr Grashoff has a brief follow-up question on the extent of the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u36	In view of the Minister's further answer, I do not see this follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u37	Then there are the motions on the items Nos. 467 and 469.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u38	The Jasper van Dijk/Van Meenen motion in part No. 467 I don't recommend. I can be brief about that. Mr Van Dijk has already tabled a motion requesting that the promotional experiment be stopped. He then submitted another motion to the VAO on the vision of science requesting that the experiment be stopped. So this is the third motion that has the operative part: asks the government to refrain from experimenting with student PhD students. For the reason I have already indicated and just repeated, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u39	There is a short question for you from Mr Van Dijk, but if the Minister is right that the discussion has already taken place several times, I would ask Mr Van Dijk to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u40	The Minister is very good at selective shopping, because she is now mentioning a number of motions that I have indeed tabled earlier, but if she wants to be complete, she should mention another motion from me. I filed it in a previous cabinet, the cabinet-Balkenende IV...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u41	Let us not exhaust ourselves to complete history, but to formulate a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u42	... under former Minister Plasterk, who was a fierce opponent of student PhD students. Minister Plasterk is a member of the Labour Party, as is this minister. So let's not beat around the bush: this is just a little thing from the VVD. The Minister is now defending it, but she could be profiling herself by saying: bad experiment; do not do it. Does the Minister share the view that a university should not participate when the co-determination council says that we are not participating?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u43	I will take that with me at the Van Meenen/Grashoff motion in part No. 469, which calls on the government to give the participation bodies the right to assent with regard to participation in the promotional education experiment. Participation plays an important role in a promotional experiment, because it has the right to consent, not an advisory right, under conditions under which the experiment is taken part. The conditions for admission, their establishment, the method of scrutiny, the criteria for participation, the termination of promotional education, the level of the promotional grant and its duration are all elements. In my written reply, I have already indicated that it is important for the institutional board to take the initiative and make an application. If I get an application from the board of directors, I'll consider the decision of participation. I have also asked the institutional board in the terms and conditions to let you know what the participation of the experiment and its participation in it is like. If it shows that participation is negative in all respects, then I cannot imagine that an experiment will continue. At the same time, that needs to be substantiated. It may also happen that an institutional board and participation are still in discussion about issues or that there is still a dispute procedure because they disagree. If the board and the co-determination disagree, then it is normal that they go to the Disputes Committee. Then, for example, I can give my approval under conditions. But to include this in advance, I do not think that all the commitments that have already been made are pure. I'm dealing with an institution board, and so I'm dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u44	If this minister is in favour of participation, we did not have a big debate on this very long ago. I think it is perfectly logical that she can simply say: of course the experiment will not continue. Let me ask my follow-up question something else. Does the Minister agree with me that the experiment will not go ahead if all the university participation councils say they do not participate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u45	That depends on how that takes shape. If participation merely claims not to be in favour of it, then I think that is far too short. Participation has the right to consent to the conditions. If he argues against the experiment, the chances of that going on at that university are extremely small, but it has to be argued. As we have now indicated, I think it is justified. I assess the board's proposal and I take into account what has been agreed with participation. If they disagree, the Disputes Committee can still play a role. I don't want to go into that in advance. In many cases, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Dijk actually have their way with regard to participation, because the chances of such an experiment going on are, of course, extremely small. However, I do not think this should be stated in advance, given all the conditions already incorporated in the experiment, in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u46	I just want to say it very precisely. There really is a fundamental difference between the right of consent to the conditions and the right to consent to the decision to participate. The latter remains a decision of the board; the discussion and any disputes can only be about the conditions. There will then be a ruling on this, possibly also from the Disputes Committee, and then the application will go to the Minister under those conditions. Then there is just a complete application in which everything is arranged. My group is in favour of the right of assent to participation in the experiment. That really is a fundamental difference, whereas the Minister now pretends that it is about materially regulated by the right of consent to the conditions. Does she agree with me that this really is a fundamental difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u47	No. It's a difference in administrative purity, though. If co-determination and institutional governance do not agree, participation must be able to make a good argument. That argument must be in the application I'm getting. A statement such as "we do not like it; we are from the SP and we do not agree with it" is not enough. If participation has very good reasons why it thinks that something at a certain university will not work out properly, I will bear that in mind, because such an experiment only works if it can count on any support within the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u48	I'm sorry, but I think the Minister is putting the axe on the roots of participation here. She's gonna sit on the driver's seat now. The driver must come to an agreement with his participation. If that does not work, it does not mean that there is a dispute; no, then the Minister is in a position to decide in all her wisdom whether or not that university is going to do it. That movement is exactly the opposite of what she said in the press this morning, namely that it wants to place much more responsibility on the institution. So I find it really incomprehensible that the Minister does not simply say: I have faith in teachers and students; if they think this is a bad idea at their university, it simply should not happen there. That's giving people their responsibility, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u49	That is why the institutional board must also consult with participation. Participation does not just have a little right of advice; it has a right of assent. Materially, that's exactly the same thing. If a participation in all these parts says no, and we can support that, we may also ask something from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u50	This brings to an end who has come to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-19.u51	Four motions have been tabled. We will be voting on this next Tuesday. Since all the spokesmen are here, I suggest we proceed immediately with the next VSO.
