ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Soon we will discuss the terrible earthquake in Nepal here in the Chamber. It is a disaster of enormous magnitude with a large number of victims. The images of the people under the rubble are very shocking. The images are reminiscent of those of Rana Plaza; last Friday exactly two years ago. That was a disaster on a smaller scale, but also with enormous human suffering. There were over 1,100 deaths there and over 2,000 wounded. Our youth organisation Perspectief has also looked at the spot. This showed that even today many workers are still demonstrating against working conditions, particularly because of insecurity. There are still child labour, low minimum wages, limited union freedom and so on. It is good that there is a contract on the safety of the textile industry in Bangladesh. However, if we now look back at what has been achieved in two years, that is lousy. That's why I have the following questions. Isn't it embarrassing that two years after the disaster we still haven't been able to compensate the victims? They are companies with millions of profits. There would be a hole of about 6 million. Maybe that hole has narrowed a little bit by now. However, the total fund needed 30 million for the people who were seriously injured there. Is the cabinet prepared to appeal to the companies concerned in the Netherlands, which is Benetton in particular, but also to the smaller companies, on their responsibility to compensate the victims? Safety and working conditions are also monitored. Many factories have now been inspected. But what has actually been achieved to improve the safety of the factories? How do we prevent these factories from being shut down and people becoming unemployed? How exactly do we ensure that safety in these factories is improved so that these people can get back to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind is very concerned. He used the words "belabberd" and "ashamed." It has indeed been a great tragedy. Mr Voordewind compares it with Nepal and I think that is not without reason. 1,100 textile workers died two years ago. Obviously, after two years, there's every reason to look at what happened. There's been a lot going on. A new labour law has been adopted in Bangladesh. As a result, under this new law, 200 new trade unions have been set up, at various places and at all levels. This is very important for the organisation of workers in the country. The second point is that a real complaint line has been opened. People who have to work in difficult or dangerous conditions can go to their own country with their stories. It is important that this is available and it has now been realized. Then I come to the issue of labour inspection. In the country, 92 labour inspectors were available for this purpose. Now there are 270 inspectors at work. They have ensured that a large number of factories have been inspected, as Mr Voordewind said. That's 2,700 now. The necessary has begun. That was also absolutely necessary. These are things that have really been achieved. As far as compensation is concerned, it is a little less bad than Mr Voordewind may possibly assume. Of the total amount required, 30 million US dollars, 27.3 million has now been collected. This means that 80% of all compensatory payments have already been paid out. So we're close to the total. The Netherlands believes that this must be achieved and does much about it. My colleague Mr Ploumen gave a statement to the OECD on this in June of last year and said how she felt this should be addressed. We have also called for it in our contacts with European and American companies. This week the European Parliament will focus on this issue, both on the part of Mrs Jongerius, MEP of the PvdA, and on the ALDE Group, the Liberal Group that deals with this issue. We can see that there have been improvements in the wages of the people working in that industry in Bangladesh. Wages have been raised by 70%. Okay, here's what I'm gonna say. There was a first conference in Germany in 2013. It is important to note that there is a follow-up conference in Pakistan this year between the various parties involved, namely the sponsors, the factories, the countries and the organisations in the countries dealing with these issues, which are putting pressure on this process to go further in the right direction. There's still a lot to do. The government does not disagree with Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	I'm sure I recognize that some things have happened. The Minister is right about that. Inspections have been carried out. More inspectors have joined us. We know much better what's wrong. That's all right. It is good that the compensation fund also fills up a little more. However, we are two years away. My question to the Minister was whether the cabinet is prepared to remind companies in the Netherlands that do business with the textile industry in Bangladesh of their responsibility. In my introduction I mentioned Benetton, but there are also smaller companies that are failing. New trade unions have indeed been set up, but we also know that trade unions have been banned and abolished. We know that 61% of the applications have been rejected this year alone. So the unions aren't doing that fast. It's nice that a complaint line has been opened, but what happens to those complaints? In short, will this Minister and Minister Ploumen be prepared, if the last one goes on a trade trip again in June, to denounce trade union rights and a living wage to the government in Bangladesh?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	We will certainly not let go of this subject. We already knew it needed our attention, but due to such a horrible disaster two years ago, we are being pushed back into the facts again. We are well aware that there must be a major cultural change and changes in relations in that country. It is not easy to change trade union culture; we must continue to pay attention to it, and we must use our various contacts with the Government of Bangladesh to do so. I believe that Mr Voordewind's reference to the Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Minister's mission this year is justified. As far as Benetton is concerned, it has also become known that it has contributed over USD 1 million. I agree with Mr Voordewind that we need to appeal to all the companies involved at both international and European level, and at national level, that the remaining 30 million needed for compensation is also needed. After that, it goes on. The trade unions still need pressure and we will continue to organize this pressure because we believe that it is only with a reasonable balance in relations in such a country that we can create a safe and sustainable situation. With Mr Voordewind, I believe that this is not going to destroy the textile industry in Bangladesh, but to ensure that it works under acceptable conditions and conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister once again for his positive response. I think we are on the same side with regard to the working conditions and the tragedies that have taken place so far. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to convey to his colleague in the field of development cooperation that this matter will be put back on the agenda when she goes in this direction with the trade delegation in June. As far as Benetton is concerned, I understand that a contribution has indeed been made, but it was much smaller than it was supposed to be. The most important thing, however, is to fill up the fund of 30 million and to compensate the people for the damage suffered. The cabinet and we are on the same side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	On behalf of my group, I have always congratulated the cabinet on the active attitude it has taken towards Bangladesh, in particular, of course, through the actions of Minister Ploumen. However, I have always been concerned about the fact that you do not structurally solve the problem if you do something in a specific case, however fair it is. Companies can emigrate to Cambodia, for example, where other rules apply. Eventually, Dutch and European consumers must be sure that the product has been produced under safe conditions and with a good or reasonable wage. In the end, that's the solution. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. How can the Dutch cabinet bring that closer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr Van Ojik rightly referred to my colleague, Mrs Ploumen, and her efforts to achieve results. That's the way it is. It's her wallet and it's her endeavors. A reflection on how to promote this in the end from the Dutch consumer is something that we need to pay constant attention to. From the perspective of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, I am not immediately the first contact person for Mr Van Ojik. Nor do I intend to get rid of this, because I believe that we will have to talk about it in the end. If you want to improve conditions in the world in a structural way, you cannot do so without the consumer. That consumer must be informed and that consumer must be motivated to see and wish to bear his own responsibility. He or she must ensure that the things he or she buys are produced in a responsible manner. It is an important point and, for example, in the field of certification, there has already been the necessary communication with the Chamber. It seems appropriate to me that Mr Van Ojik should continue to explore this important subject directly with the primary portfolio holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you for your answers. You may come back for another set in a moment, but we shall first go to Mr Krol's questions.
