ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. I do not need to repeat that, unfortunately, the cabinet is on its way to turning our country into a large asylum centre. All asylum seekers who want to be allowed in. Unfortunately, this also applies to war criminals, executioners and genocide bombers. These criminals not only come in very easily, but they are also hardly ever expelled from our country after their application for residence has been rejected. This cabinet has made the Netherlands a safe haven for those who have committed the most horrific acts. This also applies to Syrian war criminals; they too can walk around quietly, knowing that they are not expelled by this Secretary of State. The executioners are protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and the Secretary of State has so far agreed. But this is, of course, untenable. I call on the Secretary of State to terminate this treaty immediately. After all, it is quite unacceptable that we should be saddled here with Syrians who have blood on their hands. According to the Cabinet, there wouldn't be any IS terrorists in our country for what it's worth by now. But there should also be no room for, for example, the Islamist executioners of Assad. Every war criminal here is one too many. Insofar as these criminals cannot yet be deported, they must, of course, be detained. Why doesn't the Secretary of State do that? Why does he let these dangerous people walk around the street quietly? Finally. This point again proves that we must close the Dutch borders and not allow any asylum seekers anymore, because you do not have to deactivate what you do not bring in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The people of IS who are threatening us are, of course, a major concern for society as a whole and a major concern for the government. That is why we have a wide range of measures to get these people to look at as early as possible and tackle them as firmly as possible, to ensure that they no longer pose a threat to our society. I understand it very well when people think: that terrorist group mainly lives in Syria, there are many people coming from Syria like this, who are fleeing from that terrorist group, there is no link; are we not at risk? I cannot rule that out, of course, which is why we are very vigilant, both at the beginning of the alien chain as well as at the security services and the police. However, it is good to say that it is not a very likely route for many IS fighters with terrorist plans to blend into the refugee stream in the Netherlands. There has been one example of someone trying to go to Italy for that purpose, but it has been caught because the services had that information. So we are on the alert, but I would like to stress that at the moment no 1F status for war crimes has been invoked against, which means that someone has not been granted asylum because he was a member of IS. We stay alert, but it's good to have the facts clear. It's not the most logical route. Unfortunately, they often have a better network outside of the current in which you are much more visible, especially if you also give your fingerprints in the asylum procedure, which makes you more likely to get caught. These signals are being exchanged. This is about IS fighters and the risk of being in the asylum stream. In addition, we remain alert to everyone in the asylum stream. Regardless of who it is, we always look at whether there are indications or signals from third parties such as other asylum seekers who point out to us that there might be something going on with a particular person. This is all part of the procedure. If we have reason to suspect that someone has been involved in international crimes as referred to in Article 1F Refugee Convention, the licence shall be refused accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	The permit may be refused, but the follow-up step will not be taken. It's about eviction, of course. The eviction is not taking place. Even this Secretary of State can't defend that war criminals often don't have to be afraid of expulsion? The Secretary of State says no one is being deported to Syria, whoever it is. Whether it's a terrorist or an Assad executioner, it doesn't matter. The Secretary of State says: you can stay in the Netherlands, because I do not intend to cancel that European Convention on Human Rights. That treaty protects the wrong people. I ask the Secretary of State once again to cancel that treaty, because we cannot sit here with war criminals, whether they are ISs or executioners of Assad. That's the point. I would also like to know the exact state of affairs at the moment. How many 1F'ers are there now? How many Syrians are we talking about? Are you sure no one's in jail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	I understand the dilemma, but you shouldn't think that you can solve the problem by shouting "they moths back" very loudly. In any case, it seems to me appropriate to note that we agree that these types of people are not entitled to protection or asylum under the Convention. So they do not get any facilities in the Netherlands and they do not have the right to stay here. In addition, we consider whether they have been in another country for a longer period in the meantime. Then we can deport them on the basis of the safe third country. So we are indeed active in this. If that is not possible, the treaty does say that you cannot send them back to Syria. However, I wonder if we would like to send these people back to Syria if we were to denounce that treaty. Then they could go back there and fight against us and civilians who have to flee from them. I therefore find it a little too easy to say that you should send them back, because we want to fight them. You not only need to check if you have enough information to deny these people an asylum permit, but also if you have enough information to prosecute them criminally. Therefore, in these cases, contact is made with the Public Prosecutor's Office to see if there's enough evidence to get someone convicted in court. Then he's stuck and he's locked up safe as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's not an answer to my question. How many are in custody now? And how many 1Fs are there exactly? How many Syrians are we talking about? I'd like to know those facts. Above all, I am really disappointed that the Secretary of State does not want to change the policy. He continues to support the European Convention on Human Rights. He accepts that this will make the Netherlands more unsafe, because we are stuck here with Syrian war criminals. That's impossible, isn't it? The Secretary of State lets in anyone who wants to. He's barely getting away illegally. But if even war criminals don't have to fear eviction, the end is lost, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	Apart from a number of caricatures in Mr Fritsma's contribution, I can tell him that 40 Syrian cases were submitted to Unit 1F in 2014, while 10 cases rejected Article 1F. I will inform Mr Fritsma in writing about more up-to-date figures, because I do not have them right now. They can change every day, too. In addition, it is a little too easy to say that suddenly they are all deportable when you denounce the European Convention on Human Rights. That would still be virtually not the case. You can't actually send a plane to Syria that lands there, so people can be transferred to the competent authorities. Quite apart from the idea that, with the withdrawal of a treaty, reality is suddenly changing, I think it would be a good idea to at least deny these people asylum. Where possible, we must prosecute them and bring them to justice. In all other cases, we will also inform our services and police, so that these people can be followed and so that they can be judged whether, apart from a war history, they pose a threat to the Netherlands elsewhere. With IS'ers I accept that immediately, but in all other 1F cases this is not automatically the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	We learned a great deal from the Rwandan refugees who came to the Netherlands and committed serious crimes. I am glad to hear that the Netherlands looks closely at these matters and also objects to 1F. I have a question on this to the Secretary of State who is always asked me, namely what happens to statements by refugees who say they recognize someone. Is there any possibility for the IND or the Aliens Police to do something with statements from refugees who say they recognize people or could tell about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	Sure. If we get those signals, we'll take them with us if you have to assess whether you need to launch such an investigation and also in the investigation itself. In this modern age, we receive more and more signals through social media, for example. They must of course be verified, but we are not blind to that information. If there is information on potential war criminals who are in proceedings in the Netherlands, we are happy to receive it so that we can involve them, give the best possible judgment and withhold asylum. You don't want people who have fled executioners and ended up in the Netherlands to meet their opponents here that they were the victims of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Remembering and prosecuting asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	Prosecution if possible, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Secretary of State tells us how alert he is. Everyone is being watched, et cetera, we have nothing to worry about. Yesterday, however, Mr Schoof, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism, said something quite different. I quote: 'Because of the large influx into the Schengen area, it is not possible internationally to accurately identify and screen all persons'. Does the Secretary of State confirm Mr Schoof's words?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	Sure. It would only be a shame to leave it with this selective quote. He has also indicated that the services exchange alert information, which led to someone being taken off a boat even before it had reached Italy in this case. He has also indicated that there are no signals that confirm that terrorists use the asylum influx route on a large scale or organised basis to mix. Of course, you'd like to know more quickly who's coming into Europe. We are also pushing them towards the countries where they enter. That is why the Netherlands believes that Europe should take up screening and registration together and that we should not hide and wait until they have come here unscreened through all kinds of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
