ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance and, of course, the people in the public gallery and in the Chamber. In a 30-member debate, there is three minutes' speaking time per speaker. We're going to interrupt in two: a question and a follow-up if necessary. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA, who has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have just received the rates of excise duty. Over the last seven months, 23 million more have been received in diesel and 50 million less in petrol. Excise revenue fell by 27 million compared to the same period last year. I add them up because the government has said earlier that there is a statistical difference which makes only the total figures comparable and not the figures of the categories. Now that it has come to the conclusion that the increase in excise duties has brought absolutely nothing at all, I ask the government one question: what does it want with the increases in excise duties? In the border region it is already clear. Pumpers go bankrupt massively, people have to close their stores, less tax comes in, more WW needs to be spent and the government clings to having no revenue. The CDA Group also asked about the other graphs, about rural development. The government couldn't give them, which is why we made them ourselves. Mr President, I would like to present to you the CDA own-initiative paper on the increase in excise duties. It will also be sent digitally to the Registry so that it can be distributed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'll show you one graph now. This was the graph without the last piece in April. This is the graph now. There would be no decline and there would be no border effect, but LPG sales have fallen by almost 40% in recent years. The diesel sales are one sliding line down. So it's true there's no money coming in. The entire international road transport is filling up in Belgium or Germany. It bakes Merkel's greenhouse. They may like it there, but it seems undesirable to us. I'd like to get a response as soon as possible. I would like to hear from the government as soon as possible whether it is finally able to develop a model with border effects. After all, in the government's official model there are still zero, I repeat: zero, border effects. I'd like to know if our calculations are correct. Then we can proceed to the adoption of measures. It is well known that we believe that these increases in excise duties do not produce any results. Oh, what I wouldn't have liked to have been right in this case, but that's right. That is paid equally by the pump holders in the border region and by the taxpayer, because the government will have to get the proceeds from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Customers who bought petrol or tobacco had largely crossed the border before 2014. The pump holders could only compete with LPG or diesel. Since the short-sighted increases of 1 January 2014, this last way out for pump holders to get their sandwiches has also disappeared. Since those increases in excise duties, lows have followed. We read reports almost every month about the effects of the increases in excise duties. While the whole of the Netherlands knows and understands that the increases in excise duties have led to disastrous consequences and that people are massively crossing the border to buy fuel, the cabinet seems to be looking away. In his letter to the Chamber yesterday, the Secretary of State states that concerns on this subject are perfectly understandable. This is a gain, but only understanding gives the entrepreneurs nothing. According to BOVAG and BETA, the results of government policy are even worse than previously foreseen. While in Italy, the United Kingdom and Germany more and more LPG and diesel are being sold, in the Netherlands we see a drop of 8% in diesel sales and 23% in LPG sales. What does the Secretary of State say to the pump holders who have to shut down their business? What does he say to the entrepreneurs who see the customers leaving across the border to buy not only fuel, but also groceries and tobacco, and, if they are there, to eat out? If drivers are over the border, they'll run errands right away. They get tobacco and drinks there, and the mayors in the border areas have now massively sounded the alarm clock. For example, the mayor of Losser, in the beautiful Drenthe, said that not only the pump holders but also the entrepreneurs in the immediate vicinity saw their turnover fall by 15%. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on this? In today's letter, some recognition sounds that the sales of fuel have fallen considerably, but not entirely. In the case of petrol, we see a drop of 45 million, but the Secretary of State is throwing all the other fuels in a pile and he will find a plus. Is the Secretary of State prepared to divide those figures as Mr Omtzigt has done or else will he confirm those figures? In the latter case, I believe that we can conclude that the increases in excise duties have yielded nothing and that we must reverse them as quickly as possible. Now many entrepreneurs in the border regions are breaking down. Surely that's not the intention of the Secretary of State's policy? I therefore ask him to make use of the return arrangements as soon as possible. The faster you use it, the less it costs, and the longer you wait, the more expensive it will turn out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. Last year, no less than 587 million litres of diesel were sold. In this way, the State will miss 131 million euros. This Secretary of State is trying to tell us in a letter that he still has 96 million extra income. How is that possible? Can this Secretary of State be a magician? $580 million gallons less diesel sales and still generate 96 million extra revenue? I think it's pretty. The BOVAG is talking about a massacre. Pump holders in the border area saw their turnover evaporate and stand on falls or have already fallen over. How many pump holders in the border area are now bankrupt? How many employees have been laid off by now? This Secretary of State closes his eyes and looks away, but only he is responsible for this blood sheet. At the start of the cabinet, an additional 480 million was thought to be achieved with the increase in excise duty on tobacco, alcohol and fuel. But this amount was adjusted downwards for each budget. The cabinet has counted itself wealthy and does not raise an additional 480 million, but rather gets 250 million less. Those are the facts. How much revenue has the State gone missing by now, I ask the Secretary of State? Instead of admitting, the Secretary of State is trying to tell us that the fall in turnover is due to cars becoming more economical and people having started to drive less. Diesel turnover in Germany and Belgium grew by more than 6% last year. How is it possible? You can hardly get a clearer proof of a border effect. Is the Secretary of State still denying that people are going to gas across the border? Then we're not even talking about the additional side effects. People who go to gas in Germany and Belgium often do their shopping there. This increase in excise duty also indirectly affects the entire economy in the border region. Why does this Secretary of State refuse to look at the decline in retail sales and associated VAT revenues and employment? Research agency Panteia rather calculated that more than 8,000 jobs are lost in the border area due to this stupid cabinet policy, but this Secretary of State is putting the head even deeper in the sand. When I say that a pack of cigarettes in Belgium is more than €1 cheaper and a crate of beer in Germany more than €5, it is of course not surprising that people do other purchases next to a tanking. Once found the way to the Lidl and the ALDI in Germany, it is very difficult to get those people back. But what does this Secretary of State do? He raises the excise duty on cigarettes by €0,09 this year, on top of the €0,35 we saw earlier. How stupid can you be? As a blow to the flames, he also indexes excise duties on fuel once again on 1 January, as if nothing was wrong. It is therefore right that the pump holders should come forward and have brought an action for interim measures. Against so much innocence is only one herb washed and that is a corridor to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. No one likes paying taxes, and of course the same applies to excise duties. I started out as a tax inspector. I never got an enthusiastic letter. Real change isn't easy. Such a measure on excise duties as was taken last year is not funny and it is very annoying for those concerned. This will also have an impact on companies. Let's not deny that. However, I note, also on the basis of the information we received early this morning, that in 2014 there is still a plus in excise revenue compared to 2013. If that's the case, then that means you're saying, "Go ahead." I support the Secretary of State. I would also like to know what is going on with the possible increase in excise duty in Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	Can Mrs Neppérus indicate the size of the plus over the last seven months?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'm following the Secretary of State in his calculations. There was 96 million in the plus for diesel and LPG and a min for gasoline. Of gasoline there was only the annual indexing. Mr Omtzigt may think differently, but I always follow the information that comes from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	After January, a month on which some statistical corrections have been applied, this measure is hardly a success. Mrs Neppérus may wish to separate diesel and petrol, the Secretary of State himself said a few months ago that statistical problems caused tax revenues to be miscategorized. In its figures CBS indicates that excise duties on diesel have increased by 0.6% in the last quarter of the year, i.e. almost nothing, and not by 8%, as Mrs Neppérus would have liked. Does it share the view that this measure has produced nothing at all and that it is time for rethinking? Or does the VVD stick its head in the sand for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	The VVD never sticks its head in the sand and is always real. I'm relying on the Secretary of State's figures. There are differences between them compared to the CBS, because one takes the agricultural diesel and the other doesn't. I always assume the numbers I get. Let the CDA have a little less distrust, I'd say. I follow the figures closely, because I know how annoying it is for those involved. It is also a reality that this government of VVD and PvdA, with the support of other parties, has dared to take measures that are not fun for anyone, but are meant to put this country in order. From everyone I hear other things, I also like to hear the cover for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	I think there's been a misunderstanding. I am talking about the same figures that we received this morning. From 1 January to April there was a yield of 5 million. From 1 January to November there was a negative revenue of 45 million in petrol. This means that from May to November there was a negative return of 50 million. If you then look at the other mineral oils, you will see that until April there was 73 million more and in the period from 1 January to November 96 million more. If you go through this to May until November, you'll end up with a $23 million bonus. The 50 million minus this 23 million gives a negative amount of 27 million. This is a lot of figures, but it means that excise revenue fell by EUR 27 million between May and November. Can Mrs. Neppérus explain how she got a plus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	Apparently, reading is hard. I always have faith in Mr Bashir and he means it sincerely. I'm just reading the letter saying that the increase in diesel revenues compared to 2013 is 96 million. I'm gonna hold it there. I compare the figures to 2013, that's what I'm talking about, and I'm going to keep following that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	I understand that the text is being looked at as it says in the letter. There is indeed a positive effect if you look at the period from 1 January to November. The Secretary of State confirmed in the past that a statistical correction was applied in January. If this is taken out and you only look at the effect from May to November, then you get to a negative amount of 27 million in excise revenue. You can calculate this yourself and add a table to the numbers. These measures cost us 27 million between May and November. Will Mrs. Neppérus take another look at that? I'll ask her in second term if she sees it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	I've already looked at that quietly. My conclusion is that it says "plus 96 million." I note that Mr Bashir feels differently about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u16	It would adorn the VVD if she looked a little further than her nose is long. It is inexplicable that you sell 550 million litres less diesel and LPG and still reach a plus of 96 million euros. Apparently, because the increase of €0.03 per litre was not so great that this explains the difference. So the question is, how do you get that amount of 96 million? Mrs Neppérus seems to believe the Secretary of State on his blue eyes, but the facts show something quite different. Moreover, this measure may have produced a little more, but what have been the disastrous side effects on, for example, employment and bankruptcy? As an entrepreneurial party, the VVD should certainly take that into account when deciding whether a measure is effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u17	It's about getting the country back in financial order. This requires measures that are not funny, especially for those concerned. I have said this before in the debate on this subject, and I keep saying that. The CBS has numbers. Then there is a discussion about what is between one and what is between the other. The excise declarations show that I assume they have been followed and that the State Secretary can confirm this that, on balance, 96 million more entered until November than in 2013. I am going for those figures, unless Mr Van Dijck can prove otherwise. These are the excise declarations and the figures involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u18	You can't look at the excise duties in isolation, can you? They have effects. Mrs Neppérus agrees that excise duties have effects in the border region. If you could get an extra 96 million on excise duties, but lose 500 million on income, wages, corporation tax and other taxes, it wouldn't be a good measure, would it? Surely the VVD cannot look at the increase in excise duty in isolation and say that it is good, but ignore the side effects, such as employment and bankruptcies, as if they had nothing to do with it? There's a causal link, isn't there? Does Mrs Neppérus want to discover that causal link with me, or does she prefer to look at any measure isolated and then assess it on its merits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr Van Dijck mentions numbers, but I would like to await his support. It's easy to shout. I'm also waiting for his alternative cover. Perhaps he can indicate it in second term, then we become a lot wiser. I assume that the country, precisely because of this cabinet and the support it has received from D66, SGP and Christian Union, will be back on track economically. I'm just glad. If Mr Van Dijck has all kinds of other figures, I ask him to spread them so that we can look at them. I always assume that the information I receive is correct and that information shows that it was more in 2014 than in 2013. This gives me confidence in the reconstruction, the improvement of the country, however annoying some measures may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Bashir, you have just asked a question, when it was a very short one. In second term, you can ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u21	I have a point of order. Mrs. Neppérus asked for figures. I have it, and I'd like to have it distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u22	It's possible. I'll see to it that the numbers are distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. Our economy is still in a bad way. Growth is small and unemployment is high. What does the Cabinet do? The cabinet increases excise duties. That is bad for the motorist, the pump holders and the economy. Cabinet-Rutte II is lost. The cabinet is responsible for unnecessary bankruptcies and unnecessary unemployment. Especially the VVD should be ashamed. My group wants to reduce excise duties on petrol and diesel by 10%. We also want a low uniform VAT rate of 15%. These two measures reduce the price of petrol by as much as €0.20 per litre. For example, driving becomes fun again, entrepreneurship becomes a party again and pump holders in the border region can finally compete again with the Belgians and the Germans. Our plans are far more ambitious than those of all the other parties in the Chamber. We can do whatever we want. The Secretary of State can read it all in the VNL tax plan for 2015. Our plans have been properly calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. The Netherlands now needs low taxes, low flat taxes, low VAT, low corporate tax and low excise duties. Our tax plan leads to much higher economic growth and, in the long term, to 800,000 additional jobs. That is what the Netherlands needs now. Is the government prepared not to increase taxes and excise duties, but rather to reduce them? What is the view of a uniform VAT rate of 15%?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. Many 30-member debates are late. However, this debate is coming very early; it was scheduled yesterday. I would have preferred to have seen a debate based on the figures for the whole of 2014. However, we received the figures for the first eleven months of last year from the Secretary of State for which I thank him. These figures show that excise duties on diesel are 96 million higher than the previous year and that, on the other hand, excise duties on petrol have fallen by 45 million. I do not want to hide the fact that these are disappointing figures, but at the same time one cannot say that what is often done by the car industry and also by political parties in this Chamber is that the increase in diesel tax would cost the state cash more than it would cost. That is not the case, according to the figures for the first eleven months. Charge increases are always painful and unpopular. This can also be discussed by the CDA in the previous cabinet period. However, this was necessary in order to secure public finances. For the Labour Party, it was and is important that we reduce the burden on labour as much as possible and that we work along this path to restore income, growth and employment. This is a difficult road, because labour costs are less visible and cause less noise in society than excise duties on diesel, petrol, alcohol and tobacco. But the policy works. For the first time since the crisis, we are seeing an increase in purchasing power, more jobs and more growth. More jobs and more growth will also mean more mobility and therefore more revenue for the pump holders. The fall in oil prices will also help. If you have lost less money to fill your tank, the challenge will also be less to drive a piece over the border for a few euros. I await that development and economic recovery further. At the moment, therefore, I have no further questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u25	However, Mr Bashir has a further question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u26	I've also got more figures going around. Can Mr Groot also respond to these figures? From May to November there was a negative tax revenue, i.e. minus 27 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u27	You can see that the monthly figures are very fluctuating. You can always pick out a period in which excise revenue decreases slightly. However, you see a considerable increase for this. We will have to wait and see what December will show. In the case of petrol, excise duty has remained the same in real terms, which is only indexed, so that's just a little bit. When you see that the sales of petrol are falling, you see that there are also other causes in the game, such as the car park that is becoming more and more economical and cars that are getting smaller and smaller. The impact of the economic crisis will also play a role in this. In the case of diesel, on which excise duties have been increased, there is indeed an increase in excise revenue over the first few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u28	I regret that this is not recognised. I've got something else. Surely Mr Groot cannot look away from the effects in the border region? I also have here, for example, an overview of pump holders that have gone bankrupt or closed the doors. That is not a complete overview, but when I see how many entrepreneurs have stopped selling or can't sell their business or have made staff redundant, are those real effects that we can just see when we look on the spot? Can Mr Groot also comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u29	I don't want to hide the fact that there are effects. We will have to wait and see how that develops in time. Experience has shown that these border effects disappear over time. We do know that the Dutch supermarkets are still a lot cheaper than those in Belgium and Germany. In this respect, there is still border traffic to the Netherlands and Dutch supermarkets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr Groot says that cars have become more economical. He's talking to the Secretary of State. But how does Mr Groot explain that diesel sales in Germany and Belgium increased dramatically last year and decreased in record form in the Netherlands? I assume that Mr Groot is familiar with the picture of the BOVAG from the newspaper, with Eurostat as its source. You can see that there is -6% in the Netherlands. Have only the cars in the Netherlands become more economical or have only Dutch people started to drive less? Or could there be some kind of border effect behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u31	By way of derogation to abroad, in the Netherlands there has been a huge reduction in the average size of the car sales because of the Dutch system of car taxes, we have started to stimulate very large small cars, which is the vast majority of the sales of new cars. So that could explain some of the differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u32	We're talking about 2014. Out of the ten euro countries, turnover in the Netherlands has decreased by 6%. However, countries such as Germany and Belgium are improving 6%. Does Mr Groot deny that we are dealing with a border effect? Or is he saying that tax policy on fuel-efficient cars has proved so successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u33	I didn't hide the fact that there are certain border effects. But the size of Mr Van Dijck seems to me to be greatly exaggerated. Other factors also play a role, such as the reduction of the average Dutch car. The Netherlands has been economically lagging behind in the last year compared to Germany. That also makes a difference. For example, there may be other causes. Border effects play a role, but in my opinion they are not the main players.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u34	I must congratulate Mr Groot. He finally admits that border effects play a role. On 5 November 2013, my group tabled a motion, supported by Mr Bashir and Mr Van Dijck, asking the government to make an estimate of the border effects before taking action. Now we are a year and a half further and we are still philosophizing about the cause of what can be seen here on this graph, namely a huge fall in LPG and a very heavy fall in diesel. We believe that it is large lorries that are filling up right across the border in Germany. Since I live near the mayor of Losser, I can say that I see them filling up every day. I can point out the gas stations. Mr Groot thinks they are small cars. That is all right, but does he now regret voting against the motion asking for it to be checked before the increase in excise duty was implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u35	The Secretary of State also did not deny in the review of last year that border effects will occur to a certain extent. That is never denied by my knowledge. It's about the degree to which it is. It's very difficult to determine. You have to take a considerable time off for that, because we also know that effects are phased out over time. I expect this to happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u36	Effects would phase out if the bottom lines would bend upwards. That has not happened in the past few weeks and months. They've deepened, so phase-out won't happen. The pumping stations are now bankrupt. The measure was intended to deliver EUR 280 million, but in the last seven months it has cost EUR 27 million net. How much more proof does the PvdA Group want before it agrees to at least evaluate this measure to see how we can reverse it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u37	Evaluations are fine if they take place in the long term, but we will have to wait and see how things develop. It is very illogical to assume that the negative effects will increase over time. I expect them to decrease, also in view of the fall in the price of oil that is currently taking place. People have lost less money on gas anyway. Then the price effects will also have gone away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the overview of excise revenue until November. Of course, it doesn't give the whole picture about 2014, but it's about what's available now. It does give an insight into the development. There are a few things that stand out in the numbers. Tax revenue in 2014 is indeed higher than in 2013, but significantly lower than what we took into account in advance. This applies not only to fuels for which excise duties have indeed been increased on 1 January 2014, namely gas and diesel, but above all to petrol. This is a remarkable development, because precisely for petrol, excise duties were not increased on 1 January 2014. On balance, there is a plus. The figures are disappointing; we cannot deny that. The effects are bigger, but on balance there is a plus. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. Firstly, the Secretary of State says that the decline in fuel consumption should be seen in a long-term trend, including through greening of the fleet, more fuel efficient cars and less mileage. That is indeed a long-term and structural trend. How were these trends included in the estimate? In practice we estimate in the Netherlands without taking into account behavioural effects. That's what we do with all the tax increases. Of course, we can discuss for a long time whether or not they should be taken into account, but in this case, structural developments are mainly predictable. My second point concerns the international situation. Just over six months ago, in a debate on the same subject, the Secretary of State undertook to consult with neighbouring countries. At least he'd see what's going on there. The Secretary of State also said: 'I am sitting in the eurogroup next to the Luxembourg representative and I can address him directly anyway'. How's that going? What is happening in this area in our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u39	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he can immediately respond to the contribution of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr President, this is not the first time that we have debated this issue, and that is not for nothing either. Mr. Chairman. In previous debates and meetings, I did not mention the images about January, February, March and April. I can't really change that judgment, because it's still not pretty. I also have to say that the great windfalls in relation to the first three or four months of the year have not been achieved. The development of fuel sales and excise revenue has not been easy for us since then either. A number of developments that we saw in the first quarter have continued. It is remarkable that the decline occurred not only in diesel but also in petrol. There has been no policy increase in petrol taxes, but the big minus is really the one in petrol. The revenue from excise duties on petrol at the time seemed to be even higher than the year before, but they are now considerably lower. Mr Bashir was right to point out that petrol taxes are now lower. This has also been the case with diesel: the revenue from excise duties on diesel is much higher than last year, but we had all hoped for more, especially because it is a painful measure that provokes a lot of social debate and causes a lot of discontent and pain to pumpers and entrepreneurs. The image relative to the Millions note is unchanged. An estimate has been made in the Millions Note and I am still following it. It's still my estimate, despite the change in petrol prices. It is, of course, a curious development that consumers are now breathing relievedly and not pump holders. This morning I noticed that diesel is around €1,10 and gasoline is below €1,50. The pump holders look at a disadvantage compared to Germany of €0.01 in excise duties. That is a significant point; it has also come to order here. In the past, the Netherlands had an advantage with diesel and then we brought in the diesel tourists. Now the diesel tourists stay away, and nobody will deny it. I don't think anyone has ever done that either. There is less fueling, not only as a result of long-term trends in both petrol and diesel, but also as a result of the increase in excise duties. There's no pin to get in there. The spokesmen who pointed this out are therefore right in a qualitative sense. It is a painful measure, but we must stick to the facts. I therefore hope that the spokesmen will accept the facts I have mentioned. For example, it generates significant additional revenue, even if it is lower than expected at the time of the Millions note preceding 2014. It is mainly a result of the falling petrol taxes, but it does yield about what we estimated in last Princess Day's Million Note. That makes this a painful measure. I am sure that, if we work hard, we can come up with a lot of painful measures that were needed to put the government budget in order, but that does not make it any less painful. Several questions have been asked about it. Mr Omtzigt has put forward a few statements, including the statement that it does not yield any results. I think he doesn't mean that literally. He also states that we can only look at the combined excise duties on petrol and diesel. In all honesty, I think that might be a little bit of a trick. By going back for a long time, we have seen earlier that there was some pollution in the report between petrol and diesel. At the time, we were so deep in the figures that we got a mistake out of it that, I believe, has already crept into it in 2002. That's been corrected. I said something about that here in June. So the figures that are there can be taken as they are. It's cash revenue; there's a lot of fluctuating. But in my opinion, the definitions are not so bad. This means that the image that Mr Bashir is reporting appears. He is right to say that what is happening is that less excise duties were collected in May and November than in the previous year. We have to say very precisely what this is about: it is purely and exclusively about petrol. There has been no policy increase in excise duties on petrol. For petrol, therefore, the long-term trend resulting from more economical cars and mileage behaviour is completely reflected in falling excise revenue. It is exactly as Mr Bashir says: there it goes down by 50. If you do not increase excise duties but there is a long-term trend to be seen, that is also to be expected. With diesel there is still a plus; I do not think Mr Bashir denies that. There is also this long-term trend, but there are still higher cash revenues because excise duties have been increased. This is a good time to address Mr Koolmees' question about the estimates. So far, long-term trends have not been included in the estimates. That's what you get automatically on your bread. I have to think about how we can improve the estimates on fuels, but so far there are no long-term trends. Mr Van Dijck asked how many bankruptcies there have been and how many jobs have been lost. There's no denying that pumps have disappeared. Whether this is entirely due to excise duties is, of course, always the question, but there is no denying that there is an effect. Let's not get crazy about that. I mentioned earlier that from the registrations of bankruptcies and the registrations of the UWV over the jobs we could not get exactly what was in pump holders, especially those in the border area. We don't know that number. It is not the number that says everything, because we have to be honest about this too. Many pumps do not go bankrupt, but sometimes get the oil company in one way or another as a co-shareholder or shareholder when they get into trouble. Then you don't see them in the registers. Something may have happened to the entrepreneurs, but you don't see all that in the public figures. We've put our hopes in Belgium a little bit. The biggest excise duty difference for diesel is with Belgium, not with Germany. Germany saves €0.01 for diesel, with Belgium €0.05. It would be so nice if Belgium would do something about it. The Belgians, of course, are again affected by the Luxembourgers. We don't care about €0.05 but €0.15 cents. So you understand that the Belgians are talking about the Luxembourgers as we might be talking about the Belgians. That is why I have only made direct contact with my neighbour in the eurogroup, Luxembourg's Finance Minister. That conversation's over. He said that, in the future budget, he has no intention of increasing excise duties in the time available to him. I'm telling you, I didn't have much to say about what he said. However, we have asked our southern neighbours, the Belgians, how things stand. We expect budget proposals there at the end of March and early April. It is still expected that there will be a fairly firm increase in excise duties, including for diesel, which could eliminate the disadvantage in excise duties at our southern border. I very much hope so, because border effects do not produce anything for anyone and only give up misery for entrepreneurs in the border region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u41	Is there no reason to increase the pressure on the Luxembourg colleague together with the Belgian colleague? We have many debates on harmful tax competition. Luxembourg does so in the area of group financing, but also in the field of excise duties. Is the Secretary of State prepared to increase pressure together with his Belgian colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u42	We are in a bit of a bind here, because the Netherlands is also strong in favour of autonomy in the field of taxation. Nevertheless, good consultation with good neighbors is never gone. That's why, just before the summer recess, I took another figure off the stable. We are not only a member of the European Union, but also of the Benelux countries. I almost forgot, but the Benelux still exists. There is also a neat secretary-general-like person. The Benelux, so are we. I have put this on the agenda for the discussions between the three Benelux countries. That seemed to me to be a subject that fits in well with that. I understand that the Secretary-General has worked enthusiastically on this. After the previous recess, I asked for a map to be drawn up when we are going to talk about this and on the basis of what documents that will happen. We'll be hearing about that soon. So we also have these: the Benelux. In this context, I would like to respond positively to Mr Groot's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u43	You will be surprised, but the Benelux also has a parliament!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u44	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, It's getting crazy!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u45	Yes, I saw your surprise! I thought it would be wise to bring your knowledge completely up-to-date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u46	The Benelux even has a very nice consultative assembly! I asked two questions in my contribution in the first term. Firstly, I asked whether the Secretary of State is prepared to come up with a new model which takes into account not only long-term trends. Mr Koolmees was right to ask for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're running into this. I think this should have been done in advance, but is the Secretary of State prepared to develop that model so that we can get a more realistic picture of what happens if we do something about excise duties? Secondly, I have submitted an own-initiative paper which also contains the graphs that could not be delivered so quickly by the department. I'll make sure the Secretary of State gets the color version so he can see exactly the differences in the graphs. That's so easy. Is the Secretary of State prepared to respond within a few weeks to the accuracy of the graphs and figures and to the recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u47	The estimates have come through earlier. I have always agreed with the Chamber that there is little point in locking you up in a model reality that you already ex ante..... knows that it cannot be right. At the same time, we must keep it manageable. If we start modelling behavioral effects with every conceivable tax measure, making a budget will take considerably more than a year. However, I agree with Mr Omtzigt that it would be nice if we found ways of getting closer to reality. I can't make a stand-alone commitment about that. I always have to talk to my neighbour, the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the estimates. But I do have that conversation and I hope to come up with estimates that we can see have a greater probability. Otherwise, we are in this room comparing things with estimates we may not have believed in, also because they were ex ante, so by definition without behavioural effects. Then we're not serving ourselves optimally. But I don't know if all that's feasible. Budgetary systems cover periods of 30 years. What you do in excise duties must then be done in the same way in all kinds of other types of taxes. I predict that this is not very easy, but I very much agree with the call for estimates to be as meaningful as possible. I say this to Mr Omtzig.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u48	Can you give me a time frame for that? We understand the need for consultation, but we would also like to know when this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u49	A logical answer is that I must have a final assessment of this at the time when the next estimates are being discussed, namely the budget on Princess Day. I will try to make ex ante estimates that give more insight into what is actually to be expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u50	Actually, I was hoping for a period of weeks. There is a report from then Secretary of State Weekers on the border effects of tobacco and alcohol excise duty, but it is not convenient for fuel excise duty. So it's doable. If someone here wants to harmonise the VAT rate, border effects will occur. There are other things, such as transfer tax, which are less important. Can the Secretary of State give an estimate in a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u51	This is exactly the point. Mr Omtzigt says that there has never been a frontier impact report in the field of fuels, but there has been, and has been, a great deal. In fact, we have managed to ensure that the oil companies have for three months tracked the trend in all sales of fuels by postal code area. We have made clear what the average developments in the country are, divided into ranges of 5, 10 and I even think 20 kilometres from the border. We did that very finely, which was a huge exercise. Many other sections in the department were then necessarily shut down in order to do so. The oil companies have made a very generous effort to this end. You're never gonna get it any better than a border impact report. In estimates, that level of precision is beyond anything. We must be realistic: the world is not modelable with the precision we would like. There's nothing I can do about that. We can talk about policy, but unfortunately we are not discussing the laws of statistics as a government and parliament. So if the expectation pattern is that we can do such a fine-meshed ex ante estimate, then I have to say that that's impossible. I think that Mr Omtzigt does not mean that in all reasonable terms. I've agreed to start looking for ways to include long-term trends in estimates. Again, I'm not going over that, so I have to be careful in that. You cannot change anything in an area in the state budget and not in other areas. I would just like to say straight away that I do not think that this deadline is feasible, but I am going to talk about it and I am going to come back to it through other channels. I would ask the Chamber to allow this to be taken into account in the budgetary process and not in all kinds of separate cases. This goes much wider than excise duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u52	I am curious to hear the answer to one of the key questions of this debate. That is the demand for reports from the BOVAG and the CBS that 500 million litres of diesel were sold less last year. That would mean that the Treasury missed at least 130 million. However, this Secretary of State comes with an amount of 96 million in the plus. So this Secretary of State can magic or the CBS is doing anything and nothing is right about less diesel being sold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u53	I think that, in all reasonable terms, I should first do justice to Mr Omtzigt's second question. He asked me a question and he repeated it again. I'm always willing to answer any question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u54	Just think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u55	... I simply have a certain order and I think that Mr Omtzigt is now entitled to an answer. He has asked me if I am prepared to respond to the accuracy of the figures he has in his note. I do not know those figures, so I do not know whether I will be able to judge the accuracy of those figures. As far as the volume figures of the CBS are concerned, he will use the same sources as I do. Those can be magical with one click on the screen. So I don't know if I can add much to that. However, if Mr Omtzigt has specific questions in his note about the accuracy of figures originating in the Ministry of Finance, then I will do my best to give the best possible explanation of those figures. That's what I can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u56	I give the floor to Mr Bashir. It was at the microphone earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u57	It'll be a queue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u58	Is there another question open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u59	Yes, there is another question from Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u60	Then, of course, we'll do it first, before we ask another question. You're in charge of the answers, Secretary of State. That's not up to me. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr Van Dijck asked about the BOVAG figures. That's a little related to the previous point. I cannot judge the figures that I have not produced and which I do not know how they came about. I know what kind of money comes into the department. We're on cash flow, on cash revenue. That's what I'm reporting. If the BOVAG comes to different numbers on the basis of other setups or other analyses, the questions should be asked to the BOVAG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u62	This is very important. The BOVAG is based on the CBS figures. If this Secretary of State questions the figures of the CBS, I wonder why we paid that post-tax to Brussels at all last month. Here's what's important. The CBS states that 500 million litres of diesel have been sold less in the first ten months of last year. This means that it is a simple calculation that the State has missed 130 million compared to 2013. The Secretary of State presents here, based purely on the cash, 96 million in additional income. That's not consistent, is it? Well, then this Secretary of State's gonna have to ring all the alarm bells, right? He has to say: civil servants, how is it possible that we, as a state, will raise an additional 96 million, while we sell 500 million litres less? There's something very wrong there, I'd think, if I were Secretary of State. But this Secretary of State doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u63	There are differences in definition and a certain difference in operations on the different numbers. I have dealt with this in the first report for the first three months. However, Mr Van Dijck says it well: that is purely on the basis of cash. Cash is king, he knows it. What comes into the department are the hard facts about excise revenue. I base myself on that, which I report, and that is also the port of the letter I sent. The fact that the CBS can come to different numbers on the basis of these data, but also on the basis of declarations with sometimes different definitions, is all very legitimate. However, I am standing here for the figures of cash revenue. I report it, split into two categories, and those are the figures I sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u64	In any case, it is a good thing that a first step has been taken with the letter that came out today, which reports that there has been a negative overall yield in recent months. Today, however, it has become known that the consequences of this policy are disastrous. I have here, for example, an incomplete overview of pump holders that have had to close their doors. I've counted 15 already. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore when he reaches the border and he is finally going to take steps, for example, to do something about these excise duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u65	This is a painful measure. We have to look at the increase in excise duty on diesel, because there is no point in including petrol. There has been no policy increase in excise duties. Excise revenue on diesel has increased. They generate substantial additional revenue. Yeah, that's less than ex-ante estimate. That's all right. In fact, border effects also play a role there. That is all right, too. I said earlier that there would be a new situation if a measure were to cost money rather than yield money. I note that after 11 months we are still 96 million from that reality. It is a painful measure and it yields less than in the ex-ante estimates, but it generates significant additional revenue for the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u66	If we focus only on diesel and LPG, there will be a positive balance of 23 million from May to November. That's what the letter says. But if you look at the effects of the 23 million, you can see what's on the other side. At least 15 pump holders have gone bankrupt, dozens of jobs have been lost, supermarkets and local entrepreneurs are no longer able to survive, and a large number of WW payments and welfare payments have to be paid. If you look at that 23 million, I would like to ask you to look at the total sum of all these effects: the VAT that is missing from the supermarkets, entrepreneurs who can no longer pay profit tax and WW payments that have to be paid. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the total sum of all the effects I mention is still positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u67	It is very complicated to compare things that are not comparable at all. Everyone will give a different weighting to that. The broad thrust of Mr Bashir does appeal to me. Then I would also like to extend it in the following sentence. Unfortunately, it was necessary to put the government budget in order with considerable efforts. In the broad sense, a lot of measures were needed for this that no one here likes. I am, of course, constantly at the expense of explaining that measures are very painful, but unfortunately necessary to control public debt. That applies to this measure, but also to so many other measures. Unfortunately, the Netherlands was not the only country in the world where this was the case to confront citizens and businesses with all kinds of painful measures. This was done in the interests of sound public finances, which make it possible to create jobs, which we have been able to achieve for seven months in a row, and to bring the economy back on track. That is a path that the Netherlands has followed and with which the Netherlands has come out of the danger zone. As a reward for this, we are seeing job growth again. That is important, but that does not alter the fact that every individual measure has its painful side and has asked for its sacrifices. I fully agree with Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u68	This brought an end to the government's first-term response. We'll go straight to the second term. You still have time to table a motion and a brief comment, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr. Chairman. I am still waiting for the government to respond to my recommendations. I asked for this twice in an own-initiative paper. The Secretary of State may now agree to that or in a committee, but it's just a matter of urgency. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the increase in excise duty on LPG and diesel produced much less budget than was envisaged;]] [[Whereas this is due to the fact that behavioural and border effects have not been taken into account;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an alternative model for fuel excise duty by 15 April 2015, taking into account behavioural and border effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the government's own figures, the increases in excise duty over the last seven months that can be reported have been 27 million less than in 2013;]] [[Whereas the increase in excise duty also has disastrous effects on employment and economic development in the border region, in addition to budgetary considerations;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the increase in excise duty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34002-86]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34002-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr. Chairman. Motorists used to drive across the border every time to refuel, but nowadays they have become more friendly, as I heard from eyewitness accounts. Truckers and drivers have a lot of jerrycans in the rear loader, which they fill one by one. That's one part of the explanation for the fall in petrol revenues. The other part of the explanation is that there is less and less possibility of refueling in border regions, because pump holders are going bankrupt. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the recent burden increases have adverse effects on entrepreneurs, in particular in border regions;]] [[Considers that these burdens make it difficult for border entrepreneurs to compete with entrepreneurs on the other side of the border;]] [[calls on the Government to take the necessary measures to enable operators in the border regions to compete with their colleagues in neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34002-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mr. Chairman. Here a typical form of ostrich politics is practiced. There are 500 million litres of diesel being sold less and yet the Secretary of State is holding on to a small plus. This plus earned 23 million in April and less than 3 million in months after that. The significance of this plus at the cash level is therefore almost negligible, but the Secretary of State puts his head in the sand for the disastrous consequences for employment and the economy in the border region. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the increases in excise duties on fuel, alcohol and tobacco are disastrous for border regions and employment;]] [[having noted that on 1 January 2015, the Cabinet further increased excise duties on tobacco and indexed excise duties on fuel;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse these increases immediately in order to avoid further damage to the economy and the treasury,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34002-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. Such a measure for excise duties is, of course, annoying, especially for those concerned. However, as I have said before, there is still a plus in the total. We will continue to monitor this closely. I refer to the points made by the Secretary of State at the request of Mr Omtzigt to look at the future and the estimates. We may be able to take this into account when we discuss this with the Minister, because he is dealing with this. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr. Chairman. I've prepared the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various studies show the economic benefits of a uniform VAT rate;]] [[noting that the current rate of VAT on fuel is 21%;]] [[Whereas standardising the VAT rate at 15% represents a reduction in the VAT rate on fuel;]] [[calls on the Government to standardise the VAT rate at 15% and to obtain coverage from existing VAT exemptions, as well as from tax expenditure on innovation and greening,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34002-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. I should like to make two further points. I'll start with the estimates. The Secretary of State has said that he is aiming for an estimate as realistic as possible. That seems to me to be a commendable objective. Until now, structural trends, such as clean car fleets and reduced mobility, have not been included in this estimate. I thought I heard that the Secretary of State intends to do so now. That seems very sensible to me. Mr Omtzigt spoke about behavioural effects. I agree with him on this point. The overall budget is, of course, subject to the total revenue and revenue effects, because all tax measures have revenue and revenue effects. They are also included in the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau. However, this is a specific category of excise duty, namely on tobacco, alcohol and petrol, which we know are more sensitive to behavioural changes. That cannot be taken into account in the overall picture, but you could of course look for handles to deal with it, even when it is discussed in Parliament. I am curious to hear the answer to Mr Omtzitz's question as to whether this is possible. It is good to discuss this in the Benelux. We have a secretary-general and a parliament. When can we expect a result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u75	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. I see that the Secretary of State is standing up, indicating that he will respond immediately to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr. Chairman. If Mr Omtzigt asks a question or makes recommendations, I am always prepared to respond. I'll do that in a letter. I can't respond now, because I don't know the play. In his speech, Mr Omtzigt again referred to the minus 27 million. I keep saying that it is quite right that the overall excise revenue has fallen compared to last year, but I insist that the figures show that this is precisely the result of a long-term trend in which we have not increased excise duty on petrol. Mr Bashir's and Mr Omtzig's point underlines precisely the results of the fuel reporting after the first three months, namely that there are long-term trends and that the development of excise duty increases. If you do not change the rates, the total revenues will decrease as a result of these long-term trends. With diesel we have increased them and then there can be positive returns, as this also shows. In his motion in part No. 86 does not make the expectations entirely realistic. An alternative model is an overestimate of what is feasible in this context. What I have promised is that I am aiming for an estimate that does more justice to well-known trends in the field of fuel taxes. This should fit within the feasibility and in the overall system. Unknown things are harder to foresee. For example, some behavioural effects are affected by the turbulence of the economy. So I will try to improve the estimates, but that will undoubtedly not be able to go through life as an alternative model. Then I'd be unrealistic about expectations. So we do share the underlying concern. I have promised Mr Omtzigt that I would go along with this suggestion, but in technical terms I must advise against this motion, because I would like to be realistic about expectations. The motion for a resolution refers to part No. 87 and the Van Dijck motion to item No. 89 I advise, because there is no cover. In his motion in part No. 88 refers Mr Bashir to his neighbour's plan. The PvdA Group once took the initiative to propose various actions for the economies of the border region. The cabinet has adopted a large number of these recommendations and the Ministry of Economic Affairs is busy with them. Against this background, I must advise against this motion, but with all of Mr Bashir's positive intentions which I share in order to make it easier for people in the border region to find a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u77	For the sake of completeness, the motion also deals with the financial aspects and thus excise duties, so that the necessary measures can also be taken in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u78	I think I am on the basis of the motions on the items Nos. 87 and 89 dealt with the government's views on the development of excise duties. On the basis of this intervention, my judgment on this motion does not change. Mr Van Klaveren has in his motion on item No. 90 suggestions which could in any case be relevant to the system review and the wider system operation. He asked questions in the first place, and I am sure they will have to be dealt with. In this case, however, they are premature. What he is not trying to do is to reduce the burden on labour, and that is exactly what we want in this country. We want to reduce the wedge, we want to help people get to work. We do not want anyone to have €11 net left if they cost their employer €20.50. This motion does not do justice to that. In fact, that would be blocked. For that reason, I must discourage his motion. I would point out, however, to Mr Van Klaveren that I am very interested in raising these issues when we come to speak about the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u79	We strongly support the introduction of a flat tax and a reduction in corporate tax and countless other taxes. In the end, these measures will lead to a substantial reduction in the tax burden on labour. I have already indicated this during the General Financial Reviews. Several CPB reports show that the economic effects are very beneficial for the harmonisation of the VAT rate, especially if 15% is chosen. Does the Secretary of State see that? Does he intend to do anything with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u80	I have reviewed all the literature in this field from the CPB, but also from the Van Dijkhuizen Committee and the Van Weeghel Committee. What I am going to do with it will become part of what I have called 'the prototype' and to which we will undoubtedly return again in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u81	I thank the Secretary of State for his response. In the letter he said that on 17 February, I believe, he could give cash figures for the whole year. Is it possible that he will respond to the recommendations and the accuracy of the figures before the end of February? A letter on excise duty and on old timers will therefore have to be sent to the Chamber; he will then be able to send all car cases to the Chamber at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u82	It is a good suggestion to put these things together in one letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u83	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
