ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u1	I welcome the people in the room, but especially the initiators and their supporter, Gijsbert Leertuwer. Other supporters are not in box K, but are present in the room. I would also like to welcome the Minister and Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science, who are here to advise the Chamber on this proposal for a law. We're dealing with the first term of the Chamber today. Eight speakers have come forward. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Beertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors of this initiative proposal. It's a nice sight when I see them sitting there, although I have some doubts about the combination SGP and D66 in box-K. It'll take some getting used to, but I'll do my best. The initiators believe that the professional freedom of teachers should be better protected. With this proposal for a law, they argue that the relationship between the inspection, the minister and the parliament should be reviewed and that the system of quality aspects in the WOT, the Education Supervision Act, should be reviewed. They propose a monitoring system where only the quality of education is monitored on the basis of robust requirements, for example in terms of time of education, key objectives, citizenship, learning outcomes, apprenticeship care and examination. This is therefore a question of the broad guidelines. In doing so, they give Parliament greater involvement and control over the elaboration of inspection tasks. In other words, the proposers aim to better protect the freedom of education by removing the restrictions of freedom arising from those quality aspects of the WOT. They therefore propose to clarify the distinction between the supervisory and incentive tasks of the inspection. They propose to remove the quality aspects from the Education Supervision Act. They propose to strengthen the position of schools through better information and legal protection. They want the Minister to establish the frameworks for the operation of the inspection and, finally, they want to increase the involvement of us, of the States-General, by allowing the adoption of the annual work plan and the establishment of the supervisory frameworks only four weeks after these documents have been submitted to the States-General. The PVV thinks all that is quite a bit. Are we not dealing here with a far too important approach, by means of an initiative law, of problems which, as far as I am concerned, may also be dealt with in a much smaller, more direct way, for example by upgrading the WOT? As far as I am concerned, the reference made by the initiators to the 2010 ruling of the then President of the Education Council says a lot. He then said, at his farewell, that the time had come for the inspection to take a step back: the other way, not to want to know everything anymore. That says something about the focus of the initiators. That's not our focus. As my group always says, measuring is knowing. There's nothing wrong with that, and I want that said here. I'd like to get a reaction to this. This initiative legislative proposal is based on the idea in mind of the proposers that in recent years measures have been proposed in relation to foundational education which seem to restrict the freedom of professionals and which has been the subject of a lot of discussion among professionals. By doing so, the proposers aim at instruments such as reference levels, mandatory tests in primary and secondary education and the apprenticeship follow-up system. These changes may unintentionally lead professionals to adapt more to the new rules than to the quality of education, according to the proposers. In our view, there is nothing wrong with these quality aspects. It doesn't work perfectly here and there, but that can be done. It's too far for us to put them out of order. The freedom which the proposers seek by this law is a great asset, but it also brings with it a responsibility. A school works from a vision. This vision has been incorporated into an education programme that fits in with it. In the end, hopefully, that results in quality education. Education is subject to social change and therefore it remains necessary to go along with time and regularly consider whether there is a need to change the WOT here and there. Education does not stop. That is why we have quality aspects, which are a reflection of time. It is therefore not enough, as far as we are concerned, to meet the requirements of reliability alone. The initiative proposal states that only the adequacy requirements and not the quality aspects are included in the assessment of the quality of a school. In my group's view, this is too limited a vision. The qualitative aspects, such as the effectiveness of didactic action, must not be ignored when assessing a school or simply be shared with a school board, as I understood from the legislative proposal. As far as PVV is concerned, these qualitative aspects should be at the heart of the professional conversation in order to be able to work together to continuously improve education. The ticking of the validity requirements alone will not automatically result in a perfectly functioning school, we say contrary to what the proposers are aiming at. I see that Mr Dijkgraaf is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u3	That's right, but I just wanted you to finish the quality section.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u4	That's where I am now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u5	I shall now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u6	Ultimately, it is a question of achieving the necessary standards. Is it that relevant in the end? In the interview with the inspection, I can imagine anything, but if you look at the legal requirements, isn't it a question of meeting the proper requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u7	Certainly, I fully agree with Mr Dijkgraaf. However, these quality aspects do indeed play a role. As I have just pointed out, you actually have a ticking list by pushing it aside. That puts the inspection too far out of line and it also manoeuvres the inspection in a situation where it cannot act on time when it is really necessary. At least that's my fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u8	We will, of course, hear in the answer whether this fear can be removed, but I think so. The point is that these requirements are central. Shouldn't the legal requirements be decisive for what the inspection does? The fact that she talks and gives advice for the rest is fine. But it can't be directional if it's not a legal requirement, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u9	That is indeed a grey area. I understand Mr Dijkgraaf's suggestion. First of all, I would like to hear the answers of my colleagues in Box K. Of course something's sanding, I understand that. But in our view this could also be adapted within the WOT and it does not require a whole new law. In the explanatory statement, I read: freedom of education is the starting point in the government's responsibility, not its limitation by virtue of requirements of soundness. I would like to invite the proposers to illustrate, with practical examples, exactly where they think it is going wrong. Where exactly is this freedom of education restricted? The proposers find it a disturbing situation. That's a big deal. It is even said that the inspection considers its own conduct to be questionable. That's definitely quite something. I would like examples of this from the practice that can also convince me. It is stated that if schools took legal action, the weakness of the method of inspection would be revealed. Go ahead, I'll tell you. I would also like to hear some appealing practical examples of this. One of the points in the proposal that does appeal to me is the following. The initiators recognise that school boards and school leaders can create unnecessary barriers for teachers and for the quality of education. For example, the inspector-general has pointed out that management sometimes wrongly invoke supposed inspection and government obligations to push changes in the organisation. That is all very much in my mind; I have been able to experience it several times. They stand in the way of improving quality, rather than creating a job for quality. That's exactly what we think. This is called phantom legislation, and that needs to be addressed. If that is possible, because the instrument of phantom law does not exist for nothing. It gives managers and directors a licence to act at least in part at their own discretion. That makes it very difficult to combat. I therefore ask the proposers if they know a practical approach to finding and combating this. For the purpose of this law, more focus on quality, the proposers ask for a definition of educational quality. The term "quality" has been firmly embedded in education policy and in the debate, but there is simply no definition for that. No matter how many offices, educational councils and associations are involved, it is not a clear definition. This is reflected, among other things, in the recurring discussion on the relationship between these core skills and the broad education. The PVV thinks that each educational vision includes a different definition of quality, as I say to my colleague Dijkgraaf. This is because of the background and objectives of the school. I'd like to get a response from the proposers. So what is the basis of the definition of quality? With the initiators, I share some of the view that the criteria for "very weak education" are not sufficiently in line with the central position of the minimum learning outcomes. For example, a school which is persistently very weak, or is not yet able to demonstrate learning outcomes, may not be affected by funding sanctions. Indeed, the status "very weak" does not provide a sufficient basis for taking care of schools. The explanation for this lies in the quality aspects which can lead to the judgment "very weak" without necessarily having a relationship with educational laws. However, for the PVV, it is not a solution to throw those quality aspects out of the law and in this way it will be possible to conceal the situation. No, this means that another solution will have to be found, for example changing the description of the criteria "very weak education" and "weak education" and adjusting the corresponding sanctions. I would like to invite the proposers to answer my questions. I would also like once again to express my appreciation for the many fine work they have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my group expresses its deep appreciation for the many work done by the authors on the basis of the initiative proposal. What is educational quality? That's an important question. That actually goes beyond the many smaller debates we have here on education. That is why it is good that we are discussing this with the proposers today. "No one in the Netherlands really knows what good education is. That is why there is freedom of education." That is a striking statement by educational lawyer Paul Zoontjens. We all want good education for our children, but what exactly is that? And do we strive for successful education or good education? For successful education, it is important that the objectives are met. You can measure that, but you can only experience good education. Systems of objective indicators ignore the implementation of good education. Good education depends on teachers, involved parents, a pleasant learning environment and is linked to the school's normative and philosophical character. Focusing on system values and figures undermines the conversation about good education and the quality of that education. System compulsion, from above, eventually leads to success compulsion. It is no longer about quality but about the quantity of education, about exam results, figures, the number of teaching hours of movement education and achieving the government's "excellent" predicate. How can we prevent this? For the Christian Union, the talk within the school, about quality and good education, is at the forefront. It is important that such a discussion is about meeting standards in law and regulation. Just as important are the school's own standards. Pupils must, of course, learn the basic competences, such as mathematics and language, but they must also be formed into citizens who think independently, who look at each other and who respect other cultures or religions. For schools, the central question is how to prepare students for life in society and work on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u11	I refer to the first part of what Mr Voordewind said, namely that schools, teachers and parents, in particular, decide what is good education. To some extent I agree with him, but do not all parents in the Netherlands, regardless of where they live, regardless of their background and whatever wallet they bring, simply have the right to good education for their children? As a government, do we not have a responsibility to establish a basis somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u12	That is why it is a good thing that the law lays down that we have proper requirements. These include education time, key goals, citizenship, learning outcomes, pupil care and social security at school. That has everything to do with quality of education, because of course it depends on how you determine quality. That will also be the main line of my story. One parent may have a different criterion for quality than the other parent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u13	Sure. I also agree with Mr Voordewind. But don't all parents in the Netherlands expect their children to learn anything at that school? And I mean not only things that might make them a very rich person in the figuratively sense, but also things that allow them to stand up in society, such as language and mathematics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u14	Of course, Mrs Straus is quite right about that. That is why we have these objectives. That must also be monitored. But as I said at the beginning of my speech, education is wider than just looking at whether schools are excellent, good, mediocre, weak or very weak. It is also about the living environment and the working environment of children. That's what I've been through with my own kids at school. I did not look so much at the level of my daughter's figures, but at whether she was able to move around in school, whether the atmosphere was good and whether the individual involvement of the teachers was adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u16	That brings me to the main points of the legislative proposal. How far does the power of government extend to make standards mandatory from above and what standards are set within the school? The Constitution also has a certain amount of tension in this regard. Education is free, subject to government supervision. This tension is also reflected in the history of educational supervision. From the beginning of the century, however, there has been a change of direction. In practice, the word "basic quality" has become increasingly important in inspection monitoring. Basic quality includes all kinds of additional requirements, such as the educational income and the school performance of the pupils. The legal status of "weak" or "very weak" is then linked to improvement obligations. We also know the sounds from the field. Teachers sometimes feel bound to hands and feet. For example, the inspection wants to have something to say about class management and requires the preparation of group plans and individual action plans. Teachers get the feeling that they have to work well in the eyes of the inspection and have to answer for that inspection over and over again, instead of being accountable to parents and colleagues. It's not about content anymore, it's about ticking lists. This hampers the conversation within the school about good education and quality of education. The Christian Union therefore supports the direction of the initiative legislative proposal. This makes it clear that the requirements of legality are actually laid down by the law. It gives schools more space to provide themselves with quality education. I do have a number of questions for the proposers. A recent poll by the PO-Council and the AVS, the General Association of School Leaders, shows that, according to school administrators and school leaders, the inspection can be placed more remotely if the self-evaluation of a school is in order. The vast majority believe that schools and their administration should be able to formulate and adhere to each other. They do, however, attach a stimulating role to the inspection, in addition to the controlling role. This stimulating role would link the AVS above all to the school's own ambitions. The Christian Union shares that analysis of the proposers that the distinction between monitoring requirements and quality aspects has faded. This also makes it difficult to assess whether the inspection is out of line with the quality assessment of the schools. The inspection may provide advice and suggestions to schools. How, according to the applicants, can this best contribute to horizontal accountability? The participation council may request that the report be reviewed. How can all teachers make use of the recommendations of this report from the inspection? I hope that the initiators will be able to respond to this. The applicants have included in the letter of amendment a broader quality definition and choose the route of a school plan. They extend the requirements of the school plan to indicate that the quality of education is wider than just requirements of adequacy. There is a tension there, because on the one hand the government keeps its distance in terms of quality requirements, but on the other hand a relatively short piece of legislation lays down what the broader quality definition means. I'd like to get an explanation on this route. In the note following the report, the authors write that the legislative proposal does not conflict with the supervision of new style, adding the quality judgements "good" and "excellent." They indicate that the proposals of the proposers and of the government focus on other aspects of supervision. At the same time, the proposers believe that in its quality judgements the government should confine itself to the question of whether education is good enough, thus to the merits. Anything that adds to quality judgements here is optional. The Christian Union believes that no official judgments should be attached to this. My party does see a tension here. The proposers also point out that the additional quality judgements should have a sound legal basis, but it lacks a new style for supervision. There is also a lack of legal basis for "weak" and "very weak" judgments at present, while these judgments play an important role for schools. The judgments "good", "excellent" and to a greater extent "very weak" and "weak" are more than a stimulating factor in government policy and inspection supervision. The proposers now choose to lay this down legally with regard to "very weak'. But they do not opt for the legal definition of the other quality judgements. Can they explain this further? The Education Council also points out that the initiative law in fact only guarantees the judgments "suitable" and "very weak" legally. Does the Christian Union propose that judgements "good" and "excellent" but also "weak" give the impression that they are based on educational legislation? In practice, these judgments can also lead to prejudices and disadvantages. For example, see the experiment of slow schools in which only excellent schools are allowed to participate. The illegal status "weak" has a significant impact on risk-based supervision. I'd like to get a reaction to this, too. I'm closing up. Excel in good, not in success; that was one of the outcomes of the scientific institute at the congress on education. It is up to the legislator to be reluctant to set standards, otherwise we will be back to square one: a large government with a great deal of control over education. And because of that, the conversation within the school is shut down. Good education is not in the hands of the government, but in the hands of teachers, school leaders, parents and students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. At every school where my group goes to work, there is a deep sigh when the education inspection comes up. For example, primary schools are assessed from behind on the results of the Cito test. If the results are below the national average, the threat of the predicate "weak school" soon appears. Many schoolteachers are horrified by it. The field of education covers the restriction of the freedom of teachers and other professionals with all kinds of legislation, such as mandatory tests, apprenticeship tracking system and reference levels. It is therefore a must to make inspection monitoring more far-reaching and effective. The authors of the proposal before us deserve a compliment. There are not only thorough analyses in this initiative proposal, but it is also a first step towards giving teachers more space. Politicians are often quite good at practicing all kinds of things with their mouths, but I think this is actually a first step to really give the teachers a little more freedom. The inspection's monitoring of the screen is a major annoyance in primary education. The scores of the Cito key are loaded from behind a desk, at least some of the results, because not all language parts are included. Moreover, it is virtually impossible to correct these results for social backgrounds. What does the present bill for the settlement culture on the Cito tests in primary education mean? How can social backgrounds be better taken into account in assessing the results of a school? Quality aspects would initially be removed by the legislative proposal. The SP Group was quite enthusiastic about this, because of the fact that "students go through school in principle within the expected eight-year period" or "social competences are at the level that can be expected," no school or inspector is happy. My group therefore finds it striking that these quality aspects remain within the so-called school plan in answers to questions. Can the proposers explain this? Is the school plan not part of the funding conditions and are they not again part of the adequacy requirements? Do these quality aspects, which would initially be removed, not remain part of the supervisory framework? Is this what the proposers intend to do with the bill? Will there be greater freedom for school leaders or teachers? Vereniging Beter Onderwijs Nederland and trade union Teachers In Action emphasize the importance of a more critical control of governance, for example with regard to the use of competent teachers. That question is justified. Suppose a board deploys many unauthorized teachers and does little to improve them despite incentives from the inspection. What exactly can the inspection do about this after the law has been passed? How do we guarantee that pupils receive good education? Are the existing robustness requirements sufficient in this particular case because the underlying funding conditions apply? Can the authors comment on this particular subject? The initiative legislative proposal contains a lot of paper. My group missed out on the concrete examples. Many of the issues which are very important for my group are mentioned in the funding conditions of schools. One example is the voluntary parental contribution. Is this a subject on which the inspection will be able to comment later? What possibilities does the inspection with the bill have to stimulate smaller classes? The independence of education is also important for the SP. How exactly is the supervision of school sponsorship guaranteed? Or is that not gonna happen with this new law anymore? What can the inspection do when schools abandon the duty of care for students with a question of care? Is it still possible for the inspection to give a clue to schools if there is not enough to offer opportunities, for example if schools only issue single school advice? These are specific questions to which my group would like an explanation. The Group of the Party of European Socialists wants to ensure that the removal of quality requirements does not lead to a deterioration in the monitoring of these issues. We have to be careful that school boards are given a pass. That is independent of whether the intention of school boards is right or not. The SP Group wants to be able to control certain issues through the inspection. My group has great sympathy for this bill, but we still have a few other questions, for example, about the rules for judging a school as'very weak'. These do not correspond to the criteria for establishing a funding sanction on the basis of inadequate learning outcomes. It can happen that a school is persistently "very weak" but does not have to do with inadequate learning outcomes. So there can be no financial sanctions. It's kind of hard to explain to teachers and parents. The SP endorses the intention of the proposers to address this. However, the question is how the proposers are going to do this and where they are going to be at this point. What do we do with the "very weak" assessment now that it has no legal basis? Is that merely an assessment of incentives without legal effects? In this context, there may still be a situation where children do not receive adequate education without closing the school. Does that bring the desired clarity to parents and teachers? I would like to comment on this point. Schools now have no possibility of appealing against the inspection report. They are only given the opportunity to express their views in the draft report. This is the right of appeal for applicants. And there's something to be said for that. In the event that the inspection fails to comply with the legal frameworks, does that seem to be a good assessment, but can a judge, for example, properly assess the movement of the inspection? How are we supposed to deal with that? The introduction of the own-initiative proposal briefly refers to other countries, including Scandinavian countries, some of which have no inspection at all. The reason for this is that teachers have a much stronger position there and have compulsory university training. It is referred to briefly, but is it not the case that if we want to give teachers more freedom and responsibility in the education system, we also need to ensure that teachers are better educated? Good education requires qualified teachers. But is that enough? Shouldn't we, especially in the superstructure, in the long term ask teachers to obtain a master's degree, for example? There are already university pabos. What are the authors' views on this? One could also say, for example, that there are exceptions for practical teachers. My group is very curious whether the authors have given any thought to this issue. Teachers may be more placed on a pedestal and gain more authority in the eyes of the SP. That starts with better training but also with better pay. How do the proposers look at this? Can we not avoid a great deal of bureaucratic supervision? In the eyes of the SP, the inspection should also come more into the school. Not with a lifted finger, but with advice and knowledge transfer. Is once every four years a routine visit supplemented by a screen inspection or sufficient? My party is afraid not, but is happy to hear from the proposers their views on this issue. In conclusion, my group is very sympathetic to this proposal. However, we still have a lot of questions that we would like to have answered, and then we will finally decide our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u18	Madam President. I would like to begin, like my fellow Members, by thinking that it is almost a custom, but it is very much intended to congratulate the authors on their commitment and input on this subject. It is a fine job for a Member of Parliament to be allowed to "do" own-initiative laws, but then it must be done. In addition to all other busy activities, that is what is happening. I would like to draw particular attention to Mr Leertuwer and his colleagues, because the staff are usually behind the scenes. Mr Leertouwer is now looking modestly, which is also appropriate for an SGP. It is also a bit typical for employees who work very hard behind the scenes and take a lot of the work out of their hands. That applies to the Ministry, and that also applies here in the Chamber. So I would like to pay an ode to the staff here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. Imagine that during a football match the referee would not strictly follow the rules, that he would say to the coach "you should play with five attackers," that he would tell the players "you should score with the left foot" or that he would hand out penalty kicks outside the penalty zone. Well, the stadium would be too small The sports union would naturally invite the referee to a spicy and, I think, final conversation. Without clear rules and a good referee, a fair match is impossible. And that, of course, is exactly what this bill is about. In education, the education inspection has been designated as an independent supervisor. The legislative proposal is not about whether this education inspection should be carried out, nor about whether the education inspection should stimulate education and have an opinion on education. However, the legislative proposal stresses that the inspection should clarify and apply the legal rules clearly. The classic key question is who controls that task. Who supervises the supervisor? Today it appears that the Chamber wants to take that responsibility as a watchdog, and that is good. In the Rog motion on the kindergarten test, the Chamber has already indicated at a specific point that the current working method is not satisfactory. That motion has been passed and implemented. Beautiful. The SGP welcomes the fact that there is now a legislative proposal to regulate this issue well across the whole spectrum of fundamental education. Fortunately, the need for this bill is also emphasised from a variety of points of view. We were not afraid of that when we started it, when the initiators took this initiative. We also thought that this would be the case, but polls by the then Board of Directors, the General Education Association, the PO Council and the General Association of School Leaders show that, in addition to appreciation for the inspection, there is also considerable criticism of the practice. The judgment of the Council of State is not easy. I quote: 'System and practice of educational supervision are far removed from the text and the intention of the Constitution in terms of quality judgements in addition to due diligence requirements'. That's not nothing. The Education Council also considers it necessary to make a clearer distinction between quality requirements and quality aspects. You'd almost ask why the government didn't come up with this initiative. Then let me put it to the government. Schools and teachers have the right to be clear about the rules. Only then will we have a clear and sharp debate on the quality of education. We are therefore pleased that the initiators have listened carefully to the input of advisory bodies and educational organisations in the search for a solution. The SGP considers that most of the robustness requirements are fairly clear and crystallised. There's not much discussion about that. There's not the biggest problem. However, we get the impression from the inspection that the rules are sometimes unclear or that there are no rules. I would like to hear from the initiators what the inspection should do if the rules are unclear. Do they also consider that the inspection can only apply the rules to the extent that they are clear and that the inspection should insist on clear or new rules when the rules are unclear or missing? Can the government confirm that the drafting of sound standards is not the task of the inspection, but of the legislative and administrative authorities? In the past, it has sometimes been suggested that consultation between inspection and education would be intended to develop legal requirements for education. Can the Government confirm that these consultations are intended solely to determine the operation of the inspection in the supervisory framework? The SGP wishes to emphasise that demands on education must be regulated by law or by law, that we do so by that route. There should not be some kind of proliferation of rules on which there is no democratic control. The government has proposed a periodic review of the key objectives of education. Fine. This will prevent changes in the law from being brought about by the delusion of the day. Above all, we must not allow that to happen. We need to review this periodically. The PO Council proposes that this system should apply to the whole of the law, i.e. to all the requirements of soundness. We think that's a good plan. Will the government investigate this proposal? The aim of the bill is to ensure that education itself ultimately takes a firmer position and provides sufficient reply. I am glad to hear colleagues say the same thing about this. In fact, the proposal is mainly a tool for achieving this. The field of education must then take an adult position in consultation with the inspection. The SGP welcomes the fact that the Chamber is receiving a report from the so-called ring consultation. Then we will know what is happening in that and we will get a better understanding of what is being said and what is being done. Is the initiators' assessment that this guarantee is sufficient, that there is sufficient information and that we also have the tools to conduct that discussion? Is the consultation being prepared in proper coordination between the educational organizations and the inspection, so that it is not a dictation of one? In the sports world, someone who doesn't know the rules doesn't have much chance of becoming a team coach. That should also apply to education. In any event, the SGP expects school leaders to have an insight into the legal framework. Preferably the same applies to teachers. Unfortunately, it also happens that drivers are not sufficiently aware of the law when inspecting them. That strength, that opposition, in education must be there when the inspection does things that it should not do. Fortunately, some teachers are not satisfied with this, but our impression is that this is still too little. Can the government explain the position of the legal framework in the training of school leaders? It must be in their minds, of course, if they are to play that role properly. Is the government prepared to identify how this is handled in other European countries? Mrs Siderius also mentioned the strong position of educational professionals in Finland, which is often cited as an example. Perhaps we can learn something from that. The Education Council considers it desirable to examine why hardly any use is made of the complaint advisory committee of the inspection. I would like to hear from the government whether it is working on this recommendation. We would very much welcome that. We also question the status of the complaints committee. Isn't it too noncommittal? There have not been so many opinions given by the committee because there is not much use of them, but I have seen one. I keep the data anonymous because they're not public reports, but you can learn from them. In this case, ten of the 13 points of the complaint were declared well founded. What happens then? The inspection then takes over only three parts. Then what's going on here? That doesn't help the committee's status, does it? How do we solve that? Should we not take the position of the Complaints Commission more seriously, better guarantee it and ensure that this takes place as a final step in the whole procedure? In the complaint procedure mentioned above, the interpretation of the law was also central. The Complaints Committee stated that the inspection should be cautious because the legislator was. The inspection ruled differently and the school checked in that case. Does the government share the view that, in situations where the interpretation of the law is at issue, it is obvious that the administrative judge makes a ruling, as is also provided for in the initiative? The SGP Group considers the final piece of better legal protection to be logical when we consider the impact of the inspection's judgements. That was my input. I look forward to the discussion with the initiators. I hope we can feed them soon after the summer recess. This means that Mr Bisschop and Mr Leertouwer and his colleagues Rog and Van Meenen and the other colleagues have a somewhat shorter summer recess, but knowing them it will not be the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, I would like to thank the initiators very much. It is always wonderful to see how colleagues defend an initiative proposal for which they have worked under the right of Parliament to submit an own initiative proposal. Of course, I also very much appreciate all the work of the group staff, who are also here. We know. Without you, we can't do all our jobs. Thank you, too, on behalf of the CDA Group. Monitoring the inspection in important for quality assurance of education. Article 23 (2) of our Constitution shows that education is free, subject to government supervision. This monitoring is not static, but changes over time. Since the last amendment of the Education Supervision Act, we are dealing with risk-oriented education supervision. This means that the inspection focuses its attention strongly on low-quality schools and rewards schools where they are going well with less supervision. In the first case, schools may be placed under enhanced supervision if their results are disappointing in relation to equivalent schools for three consecutive years. The inspection is then often in contact with the school and a plan of action is being drawn up to get the school back to its level. Should there be insufficient confidence in the school's capacity to recover, a financial sanction may be imposed in the worst case. In this proposal for an initiative, the initiators focus on schools which are of sufficient quality and are therefore covered by the so-called basic arrangement of inspection. In recent years we have seen an increasing lack of clarity about the tasks of inspection at the schools. The inspection also increasingly interferes with the organisation of schools. To speak with the Dijsselbloem Commission: the inspection no longer focuses solely on what schools should do? How are schools supposed to do this? According to the CDA, it should be clear that schools themselves are about how they meet the requirements of the government. That is precisely the freedom of education. In addition to this uncertainty about the task of the inspection, there is also uncertainty about the concept of "quality." Who owns this concept? Who fills this out, the government or the school? Does this vary by area? In the initiative proposal, the initiators address these two bottlenecks in a good way. The CDA recognizes the problem of explaining the concept of "quality" and the lack of a legal basis for this concept. After all, quality does not fall within the legal requirements which are at the same time the conditions of financing. These include the obligation to have a school plan, the availability of qualified teachers and the standard of hours. These are absolute standards with a strong legal anchor on the basis of which a funding sanction can be affected. Quality aspects have no direct legal basis, but have been established in supervisory frameworks by the inspection. On this basis, the inspection gives an assessment of the quality of the school. Since the introduction of the Good Education Act in 2010, good governance has come to the conclusion that, if the inspection based on its supervisory frameworks finds that a school gets the "very weak" predicate, a funding sanction can eventually be struck. In the legal process, the Council of State pointed out that the fact that a primary school is lagging behind in the learning outcomes of language and arithmetic compared to a group of similar schools does not necessarily mean that you are dealing with a school that is very weak. According to the CDA, the danger of this approach lies in the fact that, in the extreme, schools for the implementation of the concept of "quality" are highly dependent on the current standard of politics at that time, whereas it should be a long-term vision of education and quality of education that should not be subject to the political colour of a cabinet. This was also one of the important reasons for Jan Jacob van Dijk's initiative proposal, later taken over by Jack Biskop, on enhanced supervision of newly funded schools. After all, all schools must be treated equally and know where they stand. Mr Dijkgraaf just mentioned this in a very visual way in response to a football match. That appeals to everyone; everyone immediately understands what you're talking about. Thank you for that. The initiative proposal has now become law. The rules for such monitoring have been codified. Do the directors agree with the CDA that it is important for the position of schools that rules should be codified, as is the case with the present proposal? The second problem that the initiators point out concerns the two too few separate tasks of the inspection: the evaluating task and the advisory task, the critical friend, as is so beautifully mentioned in English. This too is a discussion that has been going on for a long time and has also been addressed in the last major amendment to the Education Supervision Act. The inspection evaluates the school and at the same time gives advice on how the school can improve itself. The inspection then gives a new assessment of the school. This tends to the butcher who approves his own flesh. That is why the members of the CDA Group support the proposal of the initiators to separate these two tasks. Here too, the CDA asks the directors for a response. Do they also see the tensions between the various tasks of the inspection? The CDA welcomes the changes made to the letter of amendment. We believe that these changes have improved the initiative proposal on important points. First of all, the issue of the inspection report. In the report we raised the question of how rigid the separation is between the evaluating and the stimulating tasks of the inspection. The Council of State and the Education Council had also questioned this. The CDA agrees with the solution of the initiators to draw up a single report, because in practice both tasks are interlinked, but it is clear whether the part on which the inspection is concerned is about the evaluating task or about the stimulating/advisory task. We believe that this also minimises the risk of red tape for both the school and the inspection. We are also pleased that the initiators have decided, in the letter of amendment, to make the inspection report public. We believe that this is good for both the judging side and the stimulant side. In particular, we see great advantages on that last point. With the school plan in hand, the inspection can enter into talks with the school to see if it complies with its own objective, e.g. the choice of a pedagogical-eductic vision. Is it sufficiently expressed in the everyday practice of the school? What improvements can be made to this? We also see an important strengthening of the so-called "horizontal accountability" within the school, precisely because the report is made public. In this way, the co-determination council can enter into discussions on how the school can improve itself in parts. This also applies, of course, to the Supervisory Board; let us not forget it. The CDA believes that this is the right way to promote the culture of improvement, because it is clear what is covered by the evaluating task of the inspection, with in the extreme case a funding sanction, and what falls under the stimulating task. This also makes it much clearer for schools on which basis the inspection is based, so that cases such as the kindergarten test are already prevented in the future. Schools thought that they were obliged to take a kindergarten test, while this was nowhere in the law, but in the supervisory framework of the inspection. Do the directors agree with the initiators that this proposal clarifies very much for the schools? I'd like to hear a response from them, too. The CDA believes that this will safeguard the freedom of education without too much inspection in the chair of the school. Freedom of education also includes freedom of establishment. In the opinion of the CDA, the competent authority quite rightly loses this direction when the quality of education is under pressure, as happens in schools that perform weak or even very weak. My group fully supports the direction of the inspection to get the school back to a sufficient level within a year. This is different in the eyes of the CDA in schools that show that they deliver sufficient quality. In doing so, it is not desirable that the inspection should be increasingly carried out on the chair of school boards. These schools deserve the freedom of establishment resulting from freedom of education. It is precisely by guaranteeing this freedom in schools of sufficient quality that the CDA continues to safeguard the plural system of education so much appreciated in the Netherlands, in which schools fulfil their legal task of providing good education in their own way. The CDA therefore sees nothing in an objectively formulated quality standard. My group is encouraged by the explanation given by the initiators in the note following the report and the letter of amendment; thank you for that. In this, the initiators make it clear that they are clearly separating between the evaluating and the consulting tasks of the inspection, precisely with the aim of guaranteeing both the quality of education and the freedom of establishment for schools. We ask the directors to explain what they mean by the term "quality" and whether they agree with the CDA that this is particularly up to the schools themselves to fill in, of course within the applicable laws and regulations, and especially in conversation with the parents of children they entrust to the school in question. I'm rounding up. The CDA believes that this initiative proposal not only optimises inspection monitoring, but at the same time strengthens horizontal accountability in the school. This is an important step towards enabling an improvement culture at the school itself, which the CDA would like to see. My group therefore wholeheartedly supports this initiative legislative proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to warmly congratulate the authors of this bill. It takes a lot of time and a lot of initiative to make such a law yourself. It's very nice when fellow roommates, no matter what party, sit in trade-K, it's even nicer when a group member does that, and it's totally a party if your roommate can sit there. Paul, I'm proud of you. To all three proposers and, as my colleague Mr Dijkgraaf rightly said, their employees, the tireless and indispensable staff: very good luck today and also great pleasure, although you can only listen today. Today's setting is also quite special. I would like to say a few words about it, because it also says something about the self-conscious face of our democracy that is sitting here today. In most cases, D66's own-initiative proposals are not sponsored by Christian parties. We have had many examples of this in the past. One day I was allowed to take the initiative proposal shopping times through the Dutch House of Representatives and I finally managed to do so. My greatest opponent was then the always so modest Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP. Now here is Mr Van Meenen with Mr Bishop of the SGP and Mr Rog of the CDA defending a law in one field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u22	You have challenged Mr Dijkgraaf, so I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u23	I would like to ask Mr Verhoeven whether, if the D66 Group comes up with its own-initiative proposals, it will do so only if the SGP Group joins in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u24	I would certainly like to take that into consideration, but we would ask for a little more broad-mindedness from the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u25	Sure. This does not mean that we agree with everything, but I believe that the broad-mindedness of the SGP Group is underestimated. We do not need to solve this problem in a material way. We can do that just by having a good conversation, by giving insight into our open-mindedness. So I see this as a commitment from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u26	Absolutely! We still have a lot of legislative proposals, so they will be long talks in the coming period. It is a parliamentary scoop that these three parties in this combination do this. At first I thought 'gosh, it shouldn't get any weirder', but on second thought it is simply a fine proof of the fact that our democracy makes it possible for different proposals in different combinations to be made by parties who are very different in one area and who can be very united in the other. It is also very logical that this is happening here today, because there is about 70 years of educational experience in vocational K. I don't think this is gonna go wrong. But enough warm words. I could go on for a long time, but of course we are going on to the content of the proposal. Earlier this month, a study carried out by the General Association of School Leaders and the PO Council showed that 56% of school leaders and school administrators believe that the education inspection is interfering with more matters than it should. At the same time, the vast majority of respondents also want a stimulating role for the education inspection. These results of the study very well indicate the need for this initiative legislative proposal. On the one hand, the inspection has a controlling and judgmental role, the classical vertical monitoring focused on legal criteria and regulations, and on the other a stimulating role. Mr Keijzer described this as well as the "critical friend" who thinks about improving the quality of education. Both roles of the inspection are necessary and desirable. This bill does not change that at all. However, there is a great need for a sharp distinction between the two roles. The inspection can say something about both parts, but it must be clear what the monitoring is and what it is not about. That is exactly what this bill is about. The legislative proposal clarifies the distinction between the judgmental and supervisory tasks of the inspection and the stimulating task. As far as the applicants are concerned, the situation in the future will therefore be as follows. The inspection may assess a school on the basis of a number of robust requirements, requirements in terms of educational time, financial policy, core objectives and the presence of educational policies. However, the inspection cannot judge a school on the methods or the implementation of such policies by the school. She only has a stimulating role in this. This clear division between judgements and incentives must ensure that the regulatory burden for teachers and school leaders is reduced. This is, of course, ultimately a question of "b" and that they are given more room to improve the quality of education. In this context, the school's own story, the philosophy of education, will be central to the visit of the inspection. The school should also be able to explain how it takes care of the quality of education. This is a good development, but it is also a new development for many schools. Not every school will have that whole story worked out. There will therefore have to be a transitional period. My group's question to the authors is how they view this. I am pleased that there is specific attention to horizontal accountability, with the school board taking better responsibility to parents, pupils and teachers independently of the inspection. D66 has repeatedly argued, through my colleague Paul van Meenen, for horizontal accountability as an important complement to vertical accountability. After all, pupils, parents and teachers are best placed to judge the quality of education at a school. I read in the letter of amendment that the school guide should contain information on the findings of the competent authority on the basis of the quality management system and the measures taken or taken in response thereto. Can the initiators explain exactly what changes the bill to the requirements of the school guide and how the bill strengthens horizontal accountability? I wish the authors of the initiative proposal much success in the further process that the legislative proposal will go through. I look forward to a thorough answer to the questions put by our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Jadnansing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. When I look at the shiny faces of colleagues in trade union K, I think: I must quickly come up with an initiative bill, because it is hard to believe how happy they are! It's really beautiful. It is to be welcomed that they have drawn up an initiative legislative proposal. They have taken on this task and done an enormous amount of work. While rulers have a whole battery of officials at their disposal, they have had to deal with the great employee who is behind them and some other people. That's a big deal. We therefore congratulate the authors of the initiative proposal very much. The above does not alter the fact that we have a number of questions about the nature and content of the proposed initiative. However, I would like to say that my group will open up this debate and listen carefully to the considerations of both the initiators and the minister. We have a positive attitude towards this bill. Education is a responsible but also creative sector. Good education fits good accountability, but also room for the man or woman who is a professional in the classroom. The monitoring of the education inspection should encourage schools to improve the quality of education, but it misses its goal if it hampers the creativity of teachers. On this point, the members of the PvdA Group fully agree with the initiators of the legislative proposal. In 2008, the Dijsselbloem Commission indicated that educational renewals were accompanied by phantom legislation: regulatory pressure for teachers who had not been legally established. I think I remember Mr Bishop saying in an interview that it was one of his greatest wishes to change this once. A good example is that one should read this especially.It's how all kinds of weird questions were asked to him when he became a teacher. Then he thought, "This has to be different." And now is the time. The initiators want to combat phantom legislation from the educational inspection, but not only the education inspection is a source of phantom legislation. How do the initiators intend to prevent other stakeholders, such as umbrella organisations, educational publishers or teachers from jumping into the hole and restricting the creativity of teaching practice with their own phantom legislation? As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, the competent authority of a school has the task of enabling the continuous development of pupils. This means that there will have to be proper coordination between the learning layers and the subjects. Of course, continuous development is difficult to impose as an obligation to achieve results, but I saw this in the law and I did not quite understand it, so I ask the initiators if they see this as an effort obligation. I'd like to receive a response to that. Freedom of education is never meant, and the initiators say that, by the way, it is not like a bunch of money which the government throws over the fence at the schools and which the school authorities are allowed to spend at their discretion. Young people start their education in a school and leave it with more knowledge, insight and skills. Good education is worth a lot to us. In addition, a good accountability of the proceeds of our education fits. On this point, the PvdA Group continues to disagree with the Council of State, which rejected and continues to reject the minimum learning outcomes bill at the time. Minimum learning outcomes relate to what pupils should at least learn from the education they receive. The initiators want minimum results only in combination with other related problems to be a basis for funding sanctions. They argue that a workable and legal standard for added value has not yet been found. Does the Minister share this view with the initiators? I ask the initiators: would it no longer be obvious to set a workable standard for added value in so far as it is lacking? If the initiators get what they want, then the law no longer talks about quality aspects but about risk indicators. Do the initiators consider this list of risk indicators to be exhaustive? The initiators acknowledged in the note following the report that lesson observations could serve the supervisory task of the inspection. The members of the PvdA Group very much agree with this. Without any supervision of the didactics, it may make sense to name it if the vision in the school plan and the teaching practice differ greatly. What do the initiators want the inspection to do with these findings in such a case? The PvdA Group is aware of the distinction made by the Dijsselbloem Committee between what and how education is done, but it is responsible for the following five points: safety at school, education by qualified teachers, a teaching mission that also does justice to sexual diversity, the ability of teachers to respond to differences in the classroom and the meeting with other cultures that occur in our society. I am going to go into that point-by-point. Violence and bullying in schools deserve the full attention of teachers and school leaders. Providing space for schools should not mean applying the law of wilderness to schoolchildren. Good education requires a safe school environment. The school must be able to give students the confidence to face challenges, to fail and to learn from their mistakes. The initiators rightly want to prevent security policy from getting stuck in the paper reality of the school guide. They want schools in practice to take care of the social, psychological and physical safety of pupils. To what extent does the Minister consider that this idea is reflected in the legislative proposal? I do not believe that the initiators disagree with me on the fact that education should be given by qualified teachers. With a teacher's register, we do a little bit more on top of that, because once we have competence does not mean forever competent. We want teachers to register and say how they maintain that ability. I ask the initiators: how does this idea fit in with the spirit of the initiative proposal? The age at which young people go to school is also the age at which they experience sexual development. The Organisation of Public and Accessible Schools, VOS/ABB, has expressed the concern that the initiative proposal would provide scope to not fully appreciate teachers and students with a non-herosexual orientation as a person. Can the initiators take this care away? Our education has been too often adapted to the average pupil for a long time. In doing so, injustice was done to students who are doing well, students who are doing less well and students in between. Good education can sometimes be made up of classical lessons, but it is important that differences within the group are taken into account within or in addition to the teaching situation. To what extent should teachers' ability to respond to differences in the eyes of the initiators be a point of attention of the educational inspection? The initiators want the inspection to take account of the extent to which teachers can cope with differences in the classroom as a result of its stimulating task. This requires complex skills of teachers. Should the ability of teachers to do justice to the diversity within a class not also be a prerequisite for good education? Then I come to my final point. That is also an important point for me. Good education is education that prepares young people for their functioning on the labour market and in our society. Unfortunately, in our education, a certain segregation between white and black schools is increasingly emerging, while pupils need to be prepared for a society in which different cultures co-exist. In the last decade, therefore, the Chamber adopted an initiative proposal from the then MPs Hamer, Kraneveldt and Dijsselbloem. This proposal made it the task of schools to have their pupils meet peers who were associated with other cultures. That means students from white and black schools meet. The answers to the actual questions in the last education report reported that not all schools had effectively organised their introduction to diversity. Reinforcement of this was a focus of attention. How far do the initiators think that educational supervision can and can go? Inspection monitoring, which leads to better education for young people, which is what we are concerned about, has our full support. That is why I look forward to the discussion with these shiny initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by warmly congratulating the authors of this initiative. We have discussed this issue many times, but the SGP in particular has taken up the gauntlet and what is now ahead is a resultant of it. Once again, on behalf of the VVD Group, too, I should like to express my full congratulations for their efforts and the work that they and their staff have done, let us not forget them all. Schools have a lot of freedom in the Netherlands. OECD has recently confirmed this in an international context. This freedom is a great asset, but it also brings with it a great responsibility. Professional responsibility of the people who work in education to strive for the very best education, but also the responsibility to society, who want to know whether the education of their children is indeed in order. This is why the Education Inspectorate monitors the quality of education. I would like to hear from the initiators whether they see this role as well. Under the strict eyes of this supervision, the last few years have seen a lot of work being done in education. That was necessary, too. We had a lot of weak schools, and the consequences of this are still evident here in the Chamber on a daily basis, for example during this morning's debate on low literacy. We have indicated that there are still children in the Netherlands who come from school. In a modern western country like the Netherlands we cannot and should not accept this? Fortunately, many improvements have been made in recent years. Were there still hundreds of very weak schools ten years ago, there are only a handful of them. This trend towards less and less weak education in the Netherlands must be maintained above all. We owe this to teachers who, together with the feedback from the supervisors, have found the way up. One can't do without the other. Although the freedom of education is important, the same applies to supervision. Mr Elias's motion for a resolution was clear about this. After all, our children must never suffer from the freedom of education. Education is the basis for your future. Then let that base be in order. But where that basis is now in order, the top level of education is still undervalued. The weakness in the current system is that the highest possible grade of schools is the basic quality. There is no incentive in the system to really work on ever better education. Schools stick to basic quality, as it were. In the coalition agreement, we agreed on differentiated supervision on this point. This means that schools must first have the basic quality in order and then the inspection will encourage schools much more to take steps towards good or even excellent education. This brings with it a lighter monitoring regime and more space for experiments. The VVD is in favour of this. Do the initiators share the VVD's view that, according to better quality, the inspection can indeed be more cautious? The initiative proposal distinguishes between assessing schools and encouraging them to improve education. The VVD recognizes the view of the initiators that these two tasks of the inspection are now sometimes mixed up, so this is sometimes unclear for schools and the picture may arise that they are settled by the inspection rather than stimulated. The VVD considers the education inspection as an external supervisor a crucial link for the government to fulfil our responsibility for a good education system. For this purpose, however, it is important that the method of inspection is in line with developments in education, so that they recognise how the inspection assesses them and are also open to the improvement instructions of the inspection. After all, it does not end today's discussion. Education monitoring, like education itself, is something that has to go along with time. We therefore agree with the initiators that it would be good to involve the field more strongly in the design of supervision. The inspection is currently working with so-called rings. Perhaps it is a good thing, I would ask the government to do so in order to keep this under review and see if the involvement of the field in the design and design of supervision in 2015 should not be modernised. The proposers of this initiative legislative proposal want to return to the legal requirements for assessing schools. In other words: only on this basis can the inspection check whether a school is of sufficient quality. As far as the VVD is concerned, this could be done, provided that those legal requirements are complete and up-to-date. However, we are wondering. If we look at the overview that the initiators have attached to the note on the basis of the report, these requirements of validity should be addressed once and for all. The VVD would therefore like to ask the government to make a written analysis of the various legal requirements before the follow-up of this debate and to assess whether those requirements will still be met in 2015. However, I would like to call into question one of the prerequisites of human resources policy today. We have often talked in the Chamber about the fact that the staff policy of education can and, as far as we are concerned, must be more professional. For example, there are still too many schools where teachers do not have an annual review interview. I can't do that anymore. As far as the VVD is concerned, the assessment by pupils is also given a permanent place in the personnel policy of a school. This week the LAKS published an interesting brochure about the Students Evaluate Teachers system. I have this brochure with me for those who are interested in it. The assessment of teachers also includes the student's judgement and feedback. That's not to award the popularity prize, but to launch a conversation about what's happening in the classroom. The VVD attaches importance to this. In fact, all teachers and their school leaders should attach importance to this, because pupils can give an opinion on the functioning of their teachers. This feedback should therefore play a role in the staff policy at the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u30	It is an interesting suggestion from the LAKS that students should also be given a role in the working conversations with teachers. Does the VVD also think that teachers and students or students should be able to have working conversations with school boards, school leaders, school directors or perhaps even with partnerships?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u31	For example, if there is to be a new school leader at a school, it would be very wise to think together with the teachers about what the profile should look like. I think that would be very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u32	That's another question. I am talking about the functioning of school leaders and not about the appointment of school leaders or directors. Does the VVD group think that students should also be given influence in the discussions with a director, or even with the school board and the partnerships?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u33	Now I have to ask another question. At first, Mrs Siderius indicated that they were teachers. In the second instance, however, she indicates that these are pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u34	No, in the first interruption, I was also talking about teachers and students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u35	I think it is important that, if, for example, there is an assessment of the school leader, the teachers, but also the support staff, are asked for input. I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u36	The demand also spread to the board of the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u37	The school leaders should be asked for input in the assessment of the school's board members. I don't know exactly where Mrs Siderius is going with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u38	Let me get this straight. I think Mrs Straus understands exactly what I want to go to, but she doesn't feel like answering this. She calls for students or students to be able to have working interviews with teachers. My question is whether students will be able to start working talks with the director of a school, or with the school board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u39	No, not the students. Nor is it my intention for students to engage actively in the working conversation with the lecturer. That's still the school leader's job. What matters to me is that the feedback of the students is taken into account and taken into account in that assessment. As is already happening in higher education, we believe that high school students may be able to provide the best input for a teacher's assessment. That's valuable information. Teachers themselves state that they don't really know how to better motivate high school students. We think that this is the link with information that teachers can benefit from, so that the lessons become more interesting and motivated. We would therefore like to make this part of the responsibility of personnel policy, which the initiators want to include in the school plan. It is not a matter of laying down national rules on how these evaluations are carried out, but of involving students. The VVD asks the initiators whether they would like to propose an amendment to this point. If they do not wish to do so, I am considering tabling an amendment on this point. As far as the VVD is concerned, a professional organisation starts with an identity that is worked out in a vision, which is then translated into a method that is appropriate and recognized and experienced by the staff, and in the case of schools, also by parents and pupils. That vision of a school should be in the so-called school plan. In many schools, however, this is not much more than a dusty booklet in the lower drawer of the bureau on the secretariat. Fortunately, there are also examples of schools that are working seriously on a detailed vision of education. In these schools, the school plan is therefore a living and public document which includes the vision, which is shared by employees and converted into the education programme, and for which students and parents are warm and eager to work. That is exactly how we would like to see it. We are therefore pleased to note that the initiators have taken up the VVD vision of the school plan and translated it into the first letter of amendment. Schools can distinguish themselves in this way and pupils and parents really offer something. However, it can never be put into practice if there is no culture of improvement in the school, if there is no culture in which every day we look again at how best to provide pupils with education. As far as the VVD is concerned, this culture of improvement should be part of those requirements. The inspection should be able to assess whether a school makes education a little better every day and has set up a well thought-out and widely supported system for that purpose. I would like to receive a response from the initiators and the government on this point. In the schools that are already working with a school plan as a living document, we often see that the school leader is the driving force. To what extent have the initiators also considered this role of the school leader, which will become even more important with the introduction of this new method of inspection? Are our school leaders sufficiently equipped to hunt and guide this movement in a school? I'd like to get a response from the initiators. Despite the fundamental change that is taking place today, the VVD still needs the strict role of the education inspection. Weird eyes, after all. The past has taught us that if you give schools more freedom, there is not going to be proper education everywhere and in every school. The VVD doesn't want to go back to hundreds of weak to very weak schools. I don't think anyone in this room wants that. The VVD believes in differentiated supervision, whereby you as a school deserve that freedom by first getting the basics in order and then constantly working on better education. That is why we need to think carefully about how we are shaping a system of differentiated supervision, where a good set of robustness requirements, as far as we are concerned, can also be used by pupils to assess teachers in order to keep the basics of education in order. If we let go of the reins too quickly and too easily, schools will weaken in terms of quality, and that will not help pupils and parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u40	Following Mrs Siderius' question, I came up with the following. Mrs Straus is strongly in favour of giving pupils more influence on personnel policy. D66, as we all know, is in favour of this. Only, in almost every debate in almost every sector, D66 advocates greater user participation. That is absolutely not the case with the VVD. I myself am a spokesperson for living, and in the rental policy, for example, the VVD is always fierce against more participation for tenants. Can Mrs Straus explain why she is suddenly in favour of this form of participation in the field of education, when she prefers not to allow tenants to have a say in the policy at all? Where's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u41	The difference is that we already know this system in education, for example in higher education, and that it works very well there. The other difference is that the last Education Report found that the teachers are shy about how they can motivate teaching pupils. That is precisely why we now think it is important to make better use of the feedback from the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u42	I understand. That's in education. Mrs Straus has just said that, and I fully agree with that. Would she like to talk to the colleagues in her group? Would she like to share a heartfelt word with them to ensure that this becomes commonplace not only in educational countries with the VVD, but also in other areas where the participation of users, the customers, is of great importance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u43	This is a bit, or rather far beyond the order of the debate. I'll give Mrs. Straus a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u44	We're talking about education here. And in this is the real problem that teachers themselves indicate that they are actually shy of how they can make their lessons more motivating. We help them by saying: ask the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-6.u45	This brings to an end the first deadline of the Chamber for examining this proposal for an initiative. At a later date, which will be determined in consultation with the initiators, we will proceed to the further examination of this bill. We're gonna suspend for lunch now. Then we start with the arrangement of work.
