ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance, the Members who will be speaking and the people who are following this debate in the gallery or elsewhere. I'll take a look at the members. I propose that we have an open debate on the subject, but that we try to end this debate at 12.30 p.m. in view of the fact that there are many other things on the agenda. That does not mean that we would not be able to continue until 1 p.m. if the debate were to get exciting and last longer, but then we are really done. The aim is therefore 12.30 p.m., but of course there are no substantive restrictions. There are limitations in time at most. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Merkies. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I too welcome the real diehards, including the audience in the gallery. Today is going to be an exciting day, but for the sake of fairness, I think that does not relate to the Navy Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	You never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	You never know. It is true that people have been eagerly looking forward to the Navy's note. Yes, it is. It has even been discussed in several debates, particularly in the many debates on refugees. It looked forward to the Autumn note, because the costs and inflow rates would then be known, not only for this year but also for next year. You could say that 2015 was the year of the refugees after all. My contribution will also cover a large part of this. Last year, 21,000 refugees were taken into account in the budget debate for this year. On Prince's Day, there were 40,000 of them. Actually, we knew there'd be a lot more back then. The issue of the Navy Note now appears to be 58 000 refugees. Of course, there's a price on that. For 2015, an additional EUR 350 million is expected for the COA, for reception. This is the sum of the costs incurred in 2015 and 2016. That's what my first question is about. Why are these costs not broken down by year? After all, we do not know what amount relates to 2015 and what amount relates to 2016. Written questions have also been asked about this. It is also interesting that the Dutch Bank points out that the higher influx of refugees has a slightly positive impact on the economy. We are talking about 0.14%, but still. So it is not just a question of costs, but it has increased considerably. Additional people will also be taken into account in relation to the draft budget for 2016. 32,000 people are taken into account. This has resulted in an additional cost of 635 million euros for the COA, but due to the COA's modified system of concessions, the fall is 400 million. Is this due to the fact that part of the project is due from 2015, as far as refugees are concerned who arrive in 2015? There's money coming out of underexhaustment. Where did this underexhaustment take place? Then there are some additional costs, for the IND and the Nidos Foundation. In the end, you will end up with an additional EUR 460 million for next year, we now know. Where did that money come from? Much of it comes from a cash drawer. But that's just taking a hold of the pot for development cooperation for the next few years, isn't it? Money is collected from all years, even from the year 2020. That's well beyond the current cabinet period. In the spring, when we discussed the Spring note, we saw something similar. This related to the year 2015. At that time, EUR 345 million was involved. That was actually spread over those different years, so that goes from that as well. This means that there is less and less of the ODA budget for matters other than asylum, such as development cooperation in developing countries. Moreover, this is a point where the cabinet rules its own grave and, even before the cabinet period, puts enormous pressure on the ODA budget. According to the SP, that's twice the wrong move. In anticipation of rising costs, Mr Slob of the Christian Union has tabled a motion to the General Reviews. It has been signed by many colleagues, including my own group chairman Emile Roemer. This motion calls for additional resources for first-year reception in the Netherlands and reception in the region, while avoiding the current OS programme lines. I do not know how the Minister reads that motion, but moving on to the future seems a little different to what the authors had in mind. Mr Slob is no longer in the Chamber, but it would be a nice gesture to him if the motion were read in that spirit, as we do. It is certainly a friendly gesture to all those people in developing countries for whom we are doing it. Let us not forget that in Rutte I and Rutte II there has already been significant cuts in development cooperation. In the coalition agreement, it was 1 billion. I also wonder why the costs of first-year care should be paid out of the development cooperation budget at all. I understand that this may be permitted from the OECD-DAC ODA criteria, but I do not think it is necessary. Is that right? Can the Minister confirm that? On one point, the pollution of the ODA budget is becoming so high that there is nothing left for development cooperation in developing countries. Yesterday we read in the newspaper that the richest 1% of the Netherlands saw its private assets grow by 23 billion last year. Twenty-three billion is quite a lot for such a small group of people. How does that compare to the 100 million here and 100 million there, which is the subject of the negotiations on the Tax Plan? This concerns a very large group of people. What is the relationship between this and debt growth? Last week, the Nibud published the report Geldzaken in practice 2015. The debt problem has changed compared to three years ago. Three years ago, the reasons for this were more that they had a sloppy administration and that they dealt badly with their money, but now it has much more to do with the fact that the fixed burden is too high. For example, there is too much burden in the area of care and rent, which has increased enormously. The Nibud believes that this is a worrying development, also because this type of debt, which has to do with higher fixed charges, is much more difficult to resolve. Does the Minister recognize that? What can we do about it? In 2012, 10% of people with late payments mentioned high healthcare costs as their cause. By now, that's 22%. That's a double. The number of people who say they are lagging behind due to the high fixed burden has also doubled. There is something going on, which changes the debt problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	I've been seeing Mr Van Dijck at the PVV waiting for a while at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	The SP is very generous towards Africa and development aid. The SP says: open the borders; let all those people come here and take advantage of our welfare state. That's very nice Sinterklaas steel. However, the question is how the SP will pay for this. I think the SP has a cash press in the basement. It must not be paid from the ODA budget and the message is "come in unbridled."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	I can imagine that you have had this discussion with Mr Merkies before. Nevertheless, I give him the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	That's very sharp from the chairman. The debate is often held here. We have agreed not only to spend 0.7% of GDP on development cooperation worldwide. I know that Mr Van Dijck does not want development cooperation at all. However, our solidarity does not stop at borders. If you agree to such a thing, then you should not pollute it with all kinds of things like missions, or money given to Dutch companies to do business. This means that the money doesn't reach the people who really need it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	We're talking about the Navy Note. It's about money. Money is not unlimited. 4.5 billion for Africa this year, next year 3 billion for first-year shelter. Then you get benefits, social housing, security, care, you name it. Where's the border for the SP? The SP keeps throwing money at these strangers: to Africa and immigration. She also wants the elderly in the Netherlands to be well cared for. It's two-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	We have calculated plans for this. Mr Van Dijck can read it. I would also point out that Mr Van Dijck closes his eyes to the problem and then thinks that the problem is not there. You do have huge numbers of refugees coming here. In terms of capacity, it is difficult to absorb them quickly. Mr Van Dijck puts his hands in front of his eyes and says that the problem has been solved. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	I regard this as entrapment and give Mr Van Dijck the opportunity to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr Van Dijck is indeed a realist, because he also sees the problems for the Dutch at the food banks, for the elderly and in the care. Mr Merkies is bringing in 60,000 foreigners this year. Each stranger costs €36,000. Merkies plays for the refugees for Sinterklaas, while abandoning the elderly, as well as the people at the food banks and the 1.3 million people living below the poverty line, whose mouth he is full of. After all, it's two-and-a-half. You can only spend a euro once. Either 3 billion will go to people from Syria who are coming to this, or 3 billion will be released for the 1.3 million people living below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have said before that this is a false contradiction: as if you always have to choose between sick and poor. We'll fit in. He doesn't want to spend a penny on people who are here and fleeing violence in their own country. I have said before that I find it embarrassing that Mr Van Dijck is dealing with these people in this way. I was talking about the debt problem. An important cause is simply a decrease in their income. That's what the Nibud says. Unemployment, which does not want to go down, is a major concern. In 2016, according to the Central Planning Bureau, we have 685,000 unemployed. I believe that the adjustments to the Tax Plan have not changed that. I see work to do for the cabinet. As a kind of Christmas party to the cabinet, I would like to say that spending money on public infrastructure, education and care should be seen as an investment. Mr Johannes Ten Cate said yesterday in the Financial Daily that we should invest more in public infrastructure. In the World Economic Outlook, the IMF calculates that every euro invested in infrastructure, provided well thought out and smartly funded, generates €3 of economic growth, without increasing the government debt quota. So it would be good if we did not just think about spending on healthcare, better health, the knowledge economy and innovation and a sustainable society. We also need to see it as an investment. This is a better level of knowledge and a sustainable society. Eventually, this also brings about something, not only in terms of well-being but also in terms of a better state treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch economy is doing well and thanks to the reforms of the cabinet, expectations are also good. A stable economy in a turbulent world, as the CPB called it last Friday. At the end of 2015, the first thing that stands out in reading the Autumn note, which has taken great steps since the Rutte Cabinets took over the helm at the low point of the economic crisis. The Netherlands is growing more rapidly than we have seen in recent years, the budget deficit has been sustainably brought below 3% and we are on the road to budgetary balance. The Netherlands has moved from the criminal bench to the talent class and this will allow the cabinet next year for a tax reduction of 5 billion and to invest in security. This became particularly visible when the Netherlands recently recovered the triple A rating at Standard & Poor's, the first and only country to be downgraded some years ago. Standard & Poor's mentioned the positive economic prospects and medium-term expectations for the Netherlands, the reason for increasing status. Rising purchasing power and wages and growing employment are helping to improve consumption, thus supporting domestic demand for exports. Standard & Poor's expects the Dutch economy to grow by around 2% over the next three years. This news shows exactly how the Netherlands stands. Growth is borne by all relevant factors: exports, business investment, private consumption and public spending. Private consumption makes the largest contribution and is further strengthened in 2016 by the tax reduction that generates more disposable income. The impact of all this is now also reflected in public finances. In short, we can have a punch. We can absorb the reduced gas benefits from windfalls elsewhere and there is still considerable room for tax cuts. In the Million Note, the cabinet assumed that EUR 400 million had been lost on the Social Affairs Framework, but it has now risen to EUR 700 million. This windfall is therefore greater than expected and the Budgetary Framework Care can be mentioned at all. During the last decade large financial corpses fell out of the closet throughout the year, but now we are seeing more and more windfalls, even this year. The expected windfall in the 200 million euro note is increasing to 500 million euros. This indicates that the continued affordability of care costs appears to have been found, although much remains to be done. However, because times are more uncertain, particularly as a result of the international situation, it is important to pursue this course with caution. I come now at the end of 2015 to look forward to the new year, which is that we must not make the mistake of reversing all kinds of reforms that have been put in place in these better times. On the contrary, they help to maintain a good future perspective and build a buffer. For example, the Netherlands Bank's analysis of two weeks ago, which shows what happens if China's economy slows down by an average of 1 percentage point in 2016 and 2017. We would have noticed that here. The need to strengthen the buffers of the Netherlands remains unchanged. There are two other points in the Navy's note: the rising expenditure on asylum seekers and the setting-up of posts. The increasing expenditure on asylum seekers is no surprise, but they also show that there is no alternative but to the need for my group and the cabinet to curb the influx. The Netherlands Bank's analysis shows that if there is already a positive impact on the economy, it will only be visible in the longer term and minimal. However, we are already seeing greater effects on the state budget. The Minister also hinted at this recently. For example, he referred to the sustainability and affordability of public services. The Autumn note also notes that the expenditure frameworks close on balance and that expenditure is covered. However, my group has questions about the deadline. The Minister has not yet fully completed this task, but has moved it to the next year. We haven't seen that much. It is therefore possible that a gap will remain on balance. What is the background to this and is this not a wrong example? Or does the Minister expect any windfall at the end of this year, so that the whole task can eventually be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Autumn note doesn't bring us much news from a budgetary point of view. The budget deficit is not really getting smaller or larger this year and the public debt benefits from a partial sale of ABN AMRO, which compensates for setbacks. The revenue is even almost 100% in line with the September Millions Note estimate. Maybe a person did a psychic training at UWV. Unfortunately, despite the above-mentioned employment provision, we still have too high unemployment. It won't go down. The budget for the most concrete cabinet measure for jobs, the job plans, is not even drawn up. It's not our way of creating jobs. We see more in lower burdens and a better functioning labour market. The CDA has been advocating this for a long time. We welcome the fact that next year we will be able to achieve a real reduction in the burden. With this we can make up for some of the damage caused by the leveling party earlier. Back to the Navy Note. The CDA took note of the fact that expenditure on defence fell again in a Rutte II cabinet year and did not rise, despite the NATO agreement that defence expenditure would increase to 2% of GDP. Expenditure is now at a historical low of 1.08% of GDP. Can the Minister of Finance say that this was the last year that defence expenditure was so low in relation to GDP? At first, he cut back another quarter of a billion dollars. And not only that, 200 million less spent than budgeted. This is now the second year in a row; it is even three times as much as in the last year. In the written reply, the Minister assures us that these amounts will be spent next year, but if that year is the excuse, investments in Defence will continue to lag behind. Investment is not needed next year, but already this year. In concrete terms, this means additional delays and maintenance, additional obsolete equipment and operating costs which are at the expense of the core tasks of our armed forces. The Minister of Defence mentioned the prospect that defence expenditure would fall as a percentage of GDP, unacceptable. The CDA would like the Minister to talk to his colleague in the defence sector and ask her to make good use of her budget every year, of course in line with the Court's recommendations. It is a highly unusual request, and we would prefer to see money left in ministries, but in this department and in fact in I and M it really has to be different. On I and M people work with overprogramming. This means that more roads are planned. However, despite large overruns on individual budgets, plans, including railway safety plans, are so far behind in terms of under-utilisation. That is why we are asking whether the ministers are financially in control of their department. Is the Minister of Finance going to give the ministers concerned a hand? Next, a comment on a dragging dossier: the post-tax from the EU. In the meantime, we are no longer surprised that this year there was a post-tax of more than 500 million in our direction. There is still no proper monitoring of how figures are achieved in other Member States. The Minister always says that the national statistical offices are about that. That is true, but the comparability of the figures remains difficult. If in the Netherlands CBS and DNB alone their figures for previous years are significantly adjusted, then shouldn't that be possible in other countries? However, we do not know this and the Minister refuses to commit himself to this. We are even more disturbed by the fact that the European Commission is linking the reimbursement of the post-tax which the Netherlands is entitled to with new expenditure plans. These plans have nothing to do with the post-taxation, but, for example, with the refugee issue. This shows why it is a bad idea to transfer the gross post-tax so quickly. Why didn't we just transfer the net amount, so 650 million instead of 1.1 billion? It cannot be that the Dutch refund of the post-tax is dependent on the adoption of a budget which has nothing to do with this post-tax. Is the government prepared to let this striking twist within the budgetary system be part of the Dutch EU Presidency? Speaking of the EU, after all the fuss about CoCo legislation, is it true that the European Commission is investigating state aid in the CoCo dossier? And since when does it investigate State aid? I'd like a clear answer to this. I can say a few words about excise duties, but for the sake of time I will skip that, because we have often had this discussion. And I see that everyone stays in their seats anyway. Everyone here knows this point: we do a repeat and then we do nothing about it. We are also asking for a response from the Minister on budgetary discipline. Once again we see that the windfalls in health care and social security are being used to deal with setbacks in ministries. We have previously wondered why the Minister has allowed this breach of the budgetary rules to occur, and why these three frameworks are still being worked on, if there is always a cross-cutting review. His answer was that the cabinet may decide to do so. We figured that out. Budget Rule 10 of the cabinet itself says that the cabinet may, in exceptional circumstances, deviate from the disciplined functioning of the three budgetary frameworks. That is why I ask the Minister what exceptional circumstance makes the Minister deviate from this time and time again. Can he mention one occasion where he didn't deviate from that? Is this about the constant disagreement between the Labour Party and the VVD, for example? It is more of a normality than an "exceptional circumstance." Or is budget discipline simply past tense and is this becoming a kind of new Dijsselbloem norm? In my group there is always some dissatisfaction with the health and social security spokesmen, who see their hard-saving budget transferred to the departments without question. In addition, the cabinet itself says that the windfalls in the care are certainly surrounded with great uncertainty. It is only four years after the end of a financial year that the final costs become clear. For example, the 2014 framework annual report showed that costs in 2010, i.e. five years ago, were almost one billion higher than reported in the 2010 annual report. If, therefore, in a number of years' time, it turns out that in 2015 the caretakers have actually been troublemakers, we have now, in a narrow sense, compensated the setbacks in the state budget with non-existent windfalls. In the past, however, Kabinets, including the CDA, often also took the framework test on the whole of the three frameworks. What is striking in the various documents is that windfalls in social security were followed by a reduction in the framework of the following year, so as not to get any more windfalls. When a new framework was exceeded, there was also the announcement of the measures taken to eliminate the overruns. That is what is missing from this minister. Why? The years of uncertainty surrounding healthcare expenditure in the Health Insurance Act, the Zvw, are of great concern to us. Unfinished payments from past years, audit reports with terms and conditions and incomplete contracts are clear and effective. Thanks to my colleague, Mr Bruins Slot, there is now a committee of financial experts examining the control of the healthcare budget. Is the government closely following this investigation and has there been an investigation by the National Audit Service? If not, why not? This is a billion-dollar insecurity. Since we are going to debate a few million for a very long time this afternoon, I would like to see these billions done equally well. Moreover, can the government provide the Chamber with an overview of the cases investigated by the National Audit Service in 2015? I am simply asking for the names of the reports written by this service. Did all departments receive an immediate approval of the audit report? Do they have their business in order internally? Finally, an important point on the estimates, namely the number of refugees coming to our country. For this year, the budget for the reception of refugees has been increased because the influx appears to be greater than estimated. We wonder whether the funds mentioned are sufficient, especially since they do not include secondary effects. The use of social security will be limited in year 1, but increased police deployment, for example, will not be taken into account at all. The result is that the police are unable to take up other tasks. These are sensitive consequences that we do not see in the budget. In the 2016 budget, we do not see the impact of that higher estimate. The Cabinet states that it will not be possible to fix this until the Spring Note, in six months' time. That's not how we do it in this house. The Spring Note is intended to give a budgetary place to unforeseen effects and changes that occur for one year. However, the increased estimate for refugees is already foreseen this year, before 1 January. The cabinet should simply send a letter of amendment for increased expenditure on the refugee file. It cannot be said that it is covered by an uncovered cash drawer of 330 million. Don't push it, let's just say it. When we bought a painting of 80 million earlier this year, it would be two first, but it has become one. That was a fugitive from 300 years ago. If there are now tens of thousands of people coming forward, there is no one at all who is submitting a supplementary budget. We don't understand this. Can the Minister promise that there will still be an additional letter of amendment and an additional supplementary budget on the increased estimate of the number of refugees, so that this is settled in the financial sense, and that they will simply be submitted to the Chamber before 1 March? I understand very well that this cannot be done in one day, but let us simply shape it in an orderly manner in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	I was just thinking about the frameworks that had to be final. Mr Omtzigt says that social affairs, care and the rest should have kept their own pants and that the Minister should have done so. What exactly is Mr Omtzigt proposing? The asylum influx must be covered. Should the civil servants' salaries be down? Do you need less money to go to the D.O.D.? That's all in the context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	We had, among other things, a non-indexation in our counter-budget. However, it is the individual ministries that spend more than followed in terms of expenditure. Now that is desirable on a number of points, and so is the Labour Party. We fully understand that last year's estimate of refugees was incorrect. There is less need for this in other ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes, but setbacks have all been neatly absorbed within the budget. A little less money had to be spent on the WW. If Mr Omtzigt says that it should go to Social Affairs, then the budget must be correct. Then he must also indicate where that should be covered. He'll pay for the pound. Is that supposed to be from the D.O.D.? Is that supposed to come from civil servants' wages? Do we have to go back to the zero line? What does Mr Omtzigt propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	I suggest that we simply have a proper budget here. One letter states that we have 56,000 refugees next year. In the meantime, for Christ's sake, we have half the cover in the budget submitted. That is irresponsible budgetary policy. I am very pleased that the PvdA is now promoting me to box K to submit a budget. There's nothing I'd like more. I'd like to do it. However, I note that the figures in the government's budget do not match the figures in the latest estimates it has itself submitted and that there is an uncovered cash drawer of 330 million. It is very nice that Mr Nijboer says that I can cover it myself, but that is not how it works in a budgetary system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Omtzigt is confusing things here. He said the frames should be tight. It's like every year. One day unemployment is not so bad, the other time it is disappointing. That's how you get lucky and disappointing on different budgets. They're neatly covered. However, Mr Omtzigt makes the political point here that more money is needed for asylum and for civil servants' salaries and that this has to come from the departments; that has to come from these salaries and that cannot be paid out of windfalls elsewhere. Then I think it is a logical question, Mr Omtzigt does not answer where the CDA wants to pay it out, if it is not allowed to come from those other budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	Now Mr Nijboer is confusing several more dossiers. There are two files. The departments have to comply with the budgets and there have been exceedances. There is also the issue of refugees. The government itself puts forward an estimate of more than 50,000 asylum seekers next year. Not half of that is covered. Then the PvdA Group can't say to me: we didn't succeed, why don't you cover for it? Of course, I like that very much, but that is a reversal of the responsibility that lies with the government in this case. That is a reversal that we have already seen in the budget of Security and Justice, and now it is doing it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. The underlying figures in the Navy's note are simply good. Several previous speakers have already referred to it. Economic growth looks reasonable and stable. Unemployment is falling slightly, although the decline in the PvdA group should actually be greater. There is more purchasing power thanks to many debates in this Parliament recently. In the end, it has become possible to add hundreds of euros to the workforce next year, and that will also create jobs. At the same time, the government deficit may fall further. This also gives room to take up, for example, the setbacks in terms of the reduction in gas extraction. The PvdA Group wants to draw particular attention to one point in the economy today, and that is investment. I have also drawn attention to this in the General Financial Reviews. There will be a study group on sustainable growth this summer, for which I took the initiative together with Mr Harbers. This study group will identify where investments in the Netherlands should be made. However, it will of course only come this summer and investment in the Netherlands is lagging behind internationally, especially in business but also in macroeconomic terms. Several institutes point to this, both the IMF and the European Commission. I'll ask the cabinet what it's doing about that problem. We have also taken initiatives ourselves. The NII, the Dutch Investment Institution, has arrived. We have asked the government to commit itself to making pension funds invest more in the Netherlands. The Juncker money can be used. My question to the government is whether all this is sufficient to sustain investment. Then I come to the Navy's note and the budget. I have three points. The first is the estimates, which I always have, and will always be. The childcare allowance is again less spent than planned. The PvdA Group regrets this, because this supplement is intended precisely to serve employment participation and emancipation. There are a few windfalls in care, but I have the same question as Mr Omtzigt. It is only after years that we know for sure what the expenditures have been. Is the Minister getting a better grip on that? Another recurring theme is the rent allowance. On the contrary, I want to guard against the discipline which Mr Omtzigt has just so passionately advocated, that every minister must stop his own pants. At Minister Blok there is only one item in the budget and that is the rent payment. I would like to call on the cabinet, as in previous years, to involve the renters in the decision on purchasing power, so that there is no need to cut the rent payment automatically. My second point on the budget concerns the investments made by the departments of Infrastructure and the Environment and Defence, and by the Tax Administration, in the budget of the Minister himself. There are major investment deficits in Defence..................................................................................................................................................................................................... All we have to do is look at the track to see that. Investment is also urgently needed with the Tax Administration. The PvdA Group does not agree with the fact that the money made available for this purpose in difficult times is not being spent. How can that be, Minister? It's in several areas. In the written questioning round, we asked what this is now in. In response, we got a very long list of things that all the money wasn't spent on, although it was meant for that purpose. That's not supposed to happen. My final point on the budget is about expenditure on asylum. These are covered, but much is being borrowed from the future development cooperation budget. Until 2020, economic growth will be exploited there. Is that also an end to this, or can we, if more people ask for shelter here, foresee that growth will be used up until 2022, 2023 and 2024? Well, then you're way ahead of the future, aren't you? Cash slides are in themselves common in the budgetary system. We have also found a whole row of cash slides.... but there must be a limit. It can't be that the OS budget for 2022, 2023 and 2024 is already being spent, because what do you do if there is another setback by then? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a positive: we've got it back, finally! That's the third "A" we got back to New York. The Finance Committee flew to New York for this. We talked to Standard & Poor's and I was one of the seniors in the company. We got him back, thanks to the committee, and that's good news. Now for the bad news. The cabinet stands still and awaits elections. In fact, it's ruled out. If we had not been EU President next year, this cabinet would have been divorced long ago. However, it stays together for a while because of the children from Brussels. So it's just hanging in there, folks. That's too bad, because it stagnates everything. Status quo is the motto. Economic growth is stabilising at 2% thanks to the low euro, low interest rates and low oil prices and despite this cabinet. Unemployment remains at 600,000, the deficit is around 2% and the debt is around 67%. Thanks to low interest rates, the housing market attracts something, and the low inflation also attracts consumption. The Netherlands has finally lost its ability. A shocking message last week was that in the crisis more than half of our assets were evaporated. In 2009, an average household still had €47,000 in capital; now it is only €19,000. The Netherlands has taken on its assets because of the high costs of this cabinet. The deficit is 2.3% this year, but the cabinet still spends 15 billion more than it comes in. Of course, that is not surprising when you spend 2 billion on asylum seekers, 8.5 billion on Brussels, 4.5 billion on Africa and 80 million on a few paintings. If you didn't, the deficit would have been brushed away in one blow. It's a matter of priorities. Then I come to the cabinet of jobs, jobs, jobs. The cabinet has no response to the continuing high unemployment rate. Thousands of jobs have been lost as a result of cabinet policy. Now people have their hands in their hair. In health care alone, 65,000 people lost their jobs in the last two years. It goes on and on, if you just look at this week's messages: at TSN 12,000 jobs are on the way, at Shell 2,800 jobs are lost on top of the previously deleted 7,5000 jobs, and at Rabobank, 9,000 jobs are lost, a quarter of the jobs are lost there on top of the previously deleted 10,000 jobs. Where's the track engine? Where are those jobs? Does this minister have a plan at all, or is it waiting for a divorce? I'm coming to the sheltersunami. In 2015, it was estimated that we would spend 750 million on asylum seekers. In the meantime, this has been pushed up to 1.7 billion in three instalments. That means an additional 1 billion goes to asylum seekers. The cabinet is standing by and watching the country be flooded. The longer-term social and financial implications are therefore wisely withheld. A year ago, the cabinet talked about 40,000 asylum seekers for this and next year. In the meantime, there have been three times as many: 120,000 asylum seekers in two years. That's a record. We're getting a city the size of Maastricht in one stone. A city with people who don't know our culture, who don't speak our language and who never go back. This is going to cost the taxpayer more than 3 billion euros, only to receive €450 per family. I am not even talking about the costs of education, housing, benefits, allowances, care and safety. Last week, I read a report about 10 million extra for the police. What's all this gonna cost? We can't know. Can the Minister promise that he will have it worked out what costs the Dutch government or the Dutch taxpayer after the reception? Because I read that, once an asylum seeker has become a status holder, the costs will end up in the regular budget after the reception. In addition to the 120,000 asylum seekers for this year and next, another 650,000 migrants from other Member States benefit from our welfare state, from our benefits and from our child benefit, I read yesterday. 650,000 migrants from other Member States, while 600,000 people in the Netherlands are out of work. 40% of migrants from other EU Member States do not have a job; 53 000 people receive benefits. 53.000 people, including many Poles, Bulgarians and Romanians, receive a benefit from the Dutch State. That's 1 billion; another billion. Long live Europe! This invasion is the end of our welfare state, so we could hear yesterday from the mouth of Harrie Verbon. The cabinet is doing nothing and watching our welfare state be demolished. In fact, it's an enthusiast itself. And as a blow to the head, DNB dares to say with dry eyes that this influx is good for our economy. Can the Minister explain this again? Because I can't explain it to people. Then Europe. As in any budget, millions more are flying to Brussels in this Autumn note. At the end of last year, this minister already paid a post-tax of 1.1 billion, but this year too, we are allowed to pay a post-tax of half a billion due to a recalculation. And also, as usual, a refund that we are entitled to will be pushed back, which means we will miss another quarter this year. And we're allowed to pay another 100 million in import duties. All in all, this year we are a small billion lighter to Brussels, on top of the 7.5 billion we transferred earlier. In the meantime, the account of refunds is growing. How much more do we have to get back from Brussels in terms of discounts, refunds? And why isn't this settled against our payment? We have been waiting for the 1 billion discount for two years and we may not get it again next year. This minister is waiting for a fat billion-dollar from Brussels. Well, lucky? I wouldn't call paying a little less luck. Finally, on the subject of the ECB. Last week, the ECB decided to extend the incentive programme by six months. It's not 1,140 billion. It's 1,500 billion. It was also announced that the national central banks have now bought 720 billion from government bonds to reduce interest rates. So we're talking about trillions being pumped into the eurozone with only one goal, to boost inflation. But we all see this medicine isn't working. Inflation does not go up by pumping billions into the economy. And yet the ECB is increasing its dose of a drug that doesn't work. To the question "Where does this end?" Last week, Draghi replied: "There are no limits." This is a dangerous man and the ECB will continue until all the euro area countries' debt is on the ECB's balance sheet. Who's stopping this man? Perhaps the President of the Eurogroup will take care of this? Foolish hope!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch economy seems to be getting better and better. After years of crisis, we see substantial growth rates again. We almost forgot that it was possible, but in 2015 and 2016, growth is really coming back above 2%. The reforms are paying off and, of course, the low interest rates and the low euro rate are also helping. In any case, we can see that after exports, domestic spending is now also increasing considerably. The Dutch economy is really coming up. That is good news, that we are also seeing in public finances. The budget deficit is falling, the debt is falling, but it's not all hosanna. The recovery is fragile, unemployment is falling too slowly and there are many risks that can disrupt the bright outlook. Central banks carry out a monetary experiment with their ultra-low interest rates and buy-back programmes, of which we have no idea where it is going to take us and how policy can normalize again without new shocks. The situation in the Middle East is far from stable, but in the meantime there is a price war on the oil market, the result of which is also uncertain. Growth in China is stagnating and also in the other emerging economies there is disruption. In short, we should not let beautiful growth rates in the Netherlands calm us down. The situation could just turn around again. Last week in the Hague Future College, the Minister said that in ten years' time gas revenues will be completely out of the budget. I think that is a realistic starting point, but is this also included in the estimate? At least until 2020, a stable yield of 5.5 billion a year is estimated. Isn't that too positive? I would now like to comment more specifically on the Navy Note. Moreover, my fellow Members have already said this, except in relation to the agreements on refugees. There is a remarkable agreement on additional expenditure on assistance. Municipalities receive pre-financing for this additional expenditure with a cash-slide, but there is no agreement on an increase in the assistance budget. However, that is necessary, as annoying as it may be. The estimate of assistance is now mainly based on unemployment trends. The question is how refugees fit in. Is it true that this is included in the Spring Note? If that is the case, I have no objection at that time, but I hope the Minister agrees with me that the bill cannot be deposited with municipalities. I'd like a response. As always, the Autumn note also gives a first insight into the under-exhaustment of budgets. The biggest underexhaustment is on the defense budget. Almost 200 million will not be spent this year, mainly because investment has slowed down. That problem is not new, because the accountability debate already showed that the knowledge and organisation of investments were not in order. Especially now that extra money will be available for the defence sector in the coming years, I think it would be wise if that money were to be spent on time. This is, of course, the primary responsibility of the Minister of Defence, but I also believe that the Minister of Finance has a role to play in this. What is he going to do to ensure that defence expenditure is better aligned with the estimate? I saw an interesting figure in the answer to written question four, speaking more about the under-exhaustment. Mr Harbers also spoke just now about the ination. Year by year, even more than one billion of under-exhaustment appears between the Autumn note and the annual financial report. I would like to point out to Mr Harbers that this amount can be used to fill in the deadline, but the question is how it can be done every year. I do not think it is right that the money should be budgeted, but not spent, and that this should only be shown in the Annual Report, after the Autumn note, because then it is too late for meaningful choices. This is not a plea to spend more money or to waste money at the end of the year. We must avoid this end-of-year disease, but can the Minister of Finance pay close attention earlier in the year to the under-exhaustment, so that the Autumn note becomes more accurate and the Chamber still has the opportunity to adjust? Finally, a question that was raised last year in the Navy's note. The dividend estimate of State participations is very conservative. Over the past five years, on average, the implementation of the budget has been 220 million higher. In the meantime, the Court has used the budget law by issuing an additional dividend for 2016, but the Minister said in the spring that a better estimate is being made, with standard returns per participant. Can he explain how this is going and when we will be informed about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. We're gonna suspend until 11:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Dijck... oh, he is not here; that is a pity! He revealed why we got our triple A rating back. I didn't know that. I thought "maybe it has something to do with good policy," but it was just a visit from the Chambers Committee to the Rating Agency. It is always nice to add such a thing to parliamentary history. So you can see that the influence of the Dutch Parliament extends far beyond this Chamber. It is important to establish that with each other. I would like to make a few comments about the budget and the budgetary system in a more general sense. Then I will deal with migration and asylum. I think that is the most important part of today's debate. Then I come to a number of other points. We have done something in the Autumn paper which we often do, namely to move between frameworks. Mr Omtzigt asked: can we do that? I would remind you that this was almost standard in the time when the healthcare budget was completely out of control. I think it was Mr Koolmees, or Mr Harbers, who said that even during the year, money was transferred from framework to framework, to keep healthcare expenditure under the big framework. So it's certainly not exceptional. We are therefore primarily referring to the overall expenditure framework. This has always been the starting point of the trend in fiscal policy. This looks like a steady line to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Van Dijck is now entering the Chamber. Mr Van Dijck, you should ask your colleagues how the Minister started his reply. He was extremely kind in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	Having said that, the ministers, the departments and the budget discipline sectors must, of course, stop their own pants. I call it the SZA Social Affairs Framework and the Budgetary Framework Care for VWS. We are pressing very hard on that. Most budgets and budget discipline sectors also meet this requirement, again this year. This certainly applies to the large frameworks: the SZA framework, BZK and the Care Framework. The majority of the departments also comply. I have here in front of me the under-exhaustment of each budget chapter. There are only two departments that know no underexhaustment and therefore do not keep their "own frame" in any case: Security and Justice and Living and National Service. With regard to a number of other departments, the Chamber has even pointed out that it is concerned about the extent to which the money is not spent. I have heard several spokesmen speak about this and I will come back to it later. So there are two budgets that we could have printed back on, but as far as security and justice are concerned, I know that the Chamber wants more money to go there. We did so by letter of amendment. With regard to Wonen and Rijksdienst, Mr Nijboer recalled that most of the budget concerned the rent allowance. The flexibility in Minister Blok's budget is therefore extremely limited. In the context of purchasing power discussions, we always take the rent allowance with us. Mr Nijboer asked for that. These are the special circumstances that apply to them. What is the major problem under the sub-framework for the departmental budgets? Now these are the EU's payments. That's where the big setback is. We have, of course, also had a setback on gas benefits, but they are outside the framework, as you know. You won't see them in those frames. In any case, we have been able to do the increasing expenditure on asylum in relation to this Autumn note from the under-exhaustment in other departments. The problem thus arises, in particular, from EU payments. I'll come back to that subject later. Mr Omtzigt asked about the role of the Audit Service, the ADR. He asked what the ADR is actually doing research on. Have all the departments received a positive statement? The Court is informed of this annually by the ADR Annual Plan. In it, the Chamber can see exactly which investigations have been carried out. I don't have it with me right now, but I don't think it makes any sense to read it. That's reported to the Chamber. All departments have received an approving statement from the ADR for 2014. However, the permitted tolerances are exceeded, all of which have been fully explained in the operating paragraphs of the departmental annual reports. These have also been checked by the ADR. The Executive Board prompted Mr Omtzigt to ask for this, was the issue with the health care institutions. The Audit Service has no jurisdiction there. It's private institutions that audit firms issue statements for and not our ADR. There has been a recurring discussion about the extent to which these funds are regarded as public and how we monitor them, up to and including the General Court, etc. But that discussion is usually conducted with the Minister of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	That is correct, but yet there is one thing in the Health Insurance Act that the Audit Service should monitor properly, and that is the settlement fund. This is financed through the income-dependent ZV contribution, which is part of the public sector. Precisely at that clearing fund, adjustments are made late every time, because they make the data available too late. The request is to look into that investigation. I get that it's harder to look at hospitals from the public's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	Before the Minister replies: I understand that it is extremely technical matter, but I am going to ask whether you want to do it as much as possible so that the people in the public gallery and those who are watching at home can understand it. Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Omtzigt made the point that the health insurance fund was part of the whole public sphere, i.e. a public body and therefore under the supervision of the ADR. He pointed out the problem that real responsibility for all healthcare expenditure was taking so long. That is a lingering issue, on which the VWS has made many agreements with the Chamber and has taken steps to speed it up. However, this expenditure takes place in thousands of healthcare institutions in the country, which they all have to process in their organisations and with health insurers. It takes a very long time before the amounts are finally accounted for in The Hague. However, there are all kinds of projects put forward by the VWS Minister to speed this up. I don't have any of that on me, and I don't know if it makes any sense to discuss it further here. We know the problem and it is definitely a handicap. An interesting theme is always the in=terminal. I can also tell from colleagues in the cabinet. It's always hard to explain exactly how that works. Quite simply, some things cannot be spent before the end of the year. Sometimes we don't want to, because then you get the risk that departments will spend very quickly to get rid of the money. They are allowed to take this along the annual limit, which will result in its publication in the following year. But then it will burden the expenditure framework, because you can't spend more than that on an annual basis. At the end of the year we will therefore write down an in=terminal. This means spending less so that the overall framework is respected. We always do. We have not yet managed to invest the whole task, also because, for example, under the collective agreement, we have had additional expenditure for public staff and have used part of the scope for under-exhaustment to do so. In short, we have not yet succeeded. That's not a problem. In this context, I refer to the small state at the bottom of the answer to question 4 of the Annual Financial Report, which shows that there is still considerable underexhaustment in various departments. In that state it is visible that it fluctuates a year, but it does occur. I am relatively relaxed about this, but I will come back to specific categories of concern to the Chamber, for example in the case of defence and infrastructure where the money would remain. It is, of course, the attitude of the Minister of Finance, but I would, of course, prefer that the money is simply not spent. That's always a good starting point. But I'm relatively relaxed about it. We expect to fit the 0.6 when we close the 2015 books. First, I'm gonna grab migration and asylum, and I'm gonna come right back to the underlying questions. There are additional costs in 2015, for which 350 million is reserved from the under-exhaustment. Mr Merkies read the sentence that these are the costs for the year 2015/16 and asked why they are not broken down. It's always about the first year of care. If someone comes halfway through the year, the first year of reception of that person falls halfway into 2015 and half into 2016. However, we have found here that this year's additional inflow costs 350 million extra, regardless of whether one enters the beginning of the year, halfway through the year or end of the year. The actual expenditure for that first year of asylum reception can also partly take place in 2016, if one has arrived halfway through the year. That is why that phrase is so formulated. I come to the increased estimate for next year. Next year, we're going to assume 58.000. That is, of course, only a preliminary estimate. It is extremely volatile and we do not know. On the increased estimate for 2016, we are also joining the budget again. Then the question is when the COA gets its money. The pre-emptive system was always that the COA, at the moment the asylum seeker enters, immediately gets the whole amount for a whole year of reception, just a year ahead. It has been agreed with COA and BH/OS that this method of payment will be abolished by 2016. After all, expenditure is only later and spread out. So the settlement with BH/OS is no longer done in advance, but going through the year. The 350 million for this year is being cut out of exhaustion. I've just said there's underexhaustment in all departments, except for Security and Justice, and at Housing and National Service. That's where the money is found. It all fits within the framework. There is a political debate about the fact that this is always being removed from BH/OS. I'd like to say a few things about that. According to the ODA definition, it's okay. The first year of asylum reception may be booked under the ODA definition on ODA, so to speak. We have also agreed in this cabinet that this is not new, because it has been so for a number of years that the first year of asylum reception is actually paid by the Minister for BH/OS. So it is not only booked as ODA, but also paid out of that budget. Does this mean that we will no longer have money for development aid in developing countries in the coming years? That's what Mr. Merkies suggested. That is by no means the case. Nor do we come to the current lines of the programme, as Mr Slob said in his motion, and I believe that this motion has been adopted. We're getting it out of growth. As you know, ODA expenditure is still growing with GDP. If we have economic growth, there is more money for development aid and that bit more that comes on top and goes on over the next few years, we have moved forward and we are paying for the extra expenditure on asylum. So it is not at the expense of the existing OS budget, but it is paid for by the growth that keeps coming up again and again. Next year, when we get 2% growth again, there will be an extra disk on top of the OS budget and you can do things with it. Mr Nijboer has asked how far that is progressing. Others have also asked for this. Now we're putting the money forward until 2020. How far does that go? Will it be 2022, 2023, 2024? The fixed system is that we always look ahead to periods of five years. Actually, I wanted to stick to that. So we're not going to collect the money in the distant future. It's five years. Now it's 2016 to 2020. The disc that has only just come up because of the growth we are now achieving, we have pulled forward. In a year we will also be looking at space in 2021. In two years, maybe, if necessary, we'll look at space the year after. We're not moving forward. In any case, I hope that the asylum influx will be reduced. As a result, the expenditure on reception in the first year of the OS budget will decrease at some point. Then, of course, that space will be released for other forms of international cooperation. That's how we do it. That's to my observation in line with the motion Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	It is indeed customary that you can shift money between years. This is also the case in other budgets. However, I can now hear the Minister say that he limits that to five years. This applies to all budgets, including those of OS. This means that this year 2020 is the end of the road. You cannot of course say in 2019 that the limit is by 2020 and that it will be a year, but that it will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	Yes, on that point I can reassure Mr Nijboer. We are not going to make a claim in the future, or worse, to scrape out the budget in the future because we now have expenditure. But in all honesty, for the next five years, we will. That's a clear period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	The words "delete budget" sounded a bit enthusiastic, but it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	In 2015 and 2016 additional money is needed for asylum. Up to 2020, almost full growth has been used. So we can see that for next year only 2021 remains to be exploited. If more money is then needed, it must be found elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	Yeah, that's right. By the way, we have known to Mr Nijboer that this year, this year, the under-exhaustment in the other departments is to have EUR 350 million on a one-off basis. That is, of course, a relief from the ODA budget. We've done that once before in this cabinet period. That way, as far as possible and reasonable, we try to use the extra growth space at ODA for this unforeseen expenditure. In addition, we will consider whether the ODA budget can be helped at the end of the year, where possible, from the under-exhaustment. These are special circumstances. It's not something you think of at the beginning of the cabinet period and what you can fit in nicely, but we'll fit it in. That's the bottomline. Mr Merkies asked some questions about assets and debts. He said: on the one hand, capital is increasing and on the other hand, debt is increasing. That's something that happens all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	I am sorry to interrupt you, but I see that Mr Van Dijck wishes to place another interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	I understand that the Minister has finished his reply on the issue of asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	I asked a few questions about that. They haven't been answered. Through this interruption I would like to see the following question answered. It is now only budgeted for the first year of asylum. After that, all those 60,000 people who are coming this year and all those 60,000 people who are coming next year will become 120,000 people. Then they disappear into the regular budget. Is the Minister prepared to make a separate budget for that particular group, the status holders? How much do they cost for rent, care payments, benefits, security, police and so on? After all, they disappeared suddenly and no longer to be identified as a separate group of foreigners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr Van Dijck did indeed put that question in the first place. We are going to include in ordinary budgets the additional expenditure that may be needed in the fields of education, police, housing and so on when the status holders are actually going to integrate into society. That's what we do in spring notes. That's what others have been asking for. Mr Omtzig asked about extra spending on the police. They're imaginable, but I'm not taking an advance on that. We'll fit that in with spring note. In my view, this should also be delayed, because asylum seekers will simply be in COA facilities for the first year, and perhaps even longer due to circumstances. Of course, we have also created the special municipal intermediate facilities. Mr Van Dijck is right that at some point they simply get a place somewhere in society. I will include that in the ordinary budget. I am not prepared to make a separate budget or a separate set-up for this purpose. I do not make a separate budget for any group in the Netherlands for what they cost for care or housing. I'm not gonna do that for status holders. The core of integration is that they must become part of Dutch society, preferably to find work up to and including themselves, get started, get a good education etc. So, no, I'm not going to draw up a separate budget for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	To sum up, the Minister of Finance assumes that the 120,000 asylum seekers will soon be Dutch and that they will never go back. I thought the status holders were supposed to see if they could go back for five years. The ultimate goal is for them to go back. However, the Minister of Finance assumes that they will never go back. They are just treated like any other Dutchman in the regular budget. They can simply use all facilities, like any Dutchman. I do not think that is the definition of a status holder. The goal with a status holder is that he goes back. The citizens of this country have a right to know what this influx will cost them as taxpayers. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	There are two arguments that are mixed up. The first question is whether all people stay in the Netherlands. The debate on all forms of status holders, on their rights and on deadlines should be held by Mr Van Dijck with Secretary of State Dijkhoff. Let's not make the mistake of assuming everyone's going back. We have done this before in the migration history of the Netherlands. This does not happen to a large extent and then people do not appear to be integrated. My point is that people should integrate as far as they do not go back. We do not make a separate budget to show what people cost to Dutch society up to the length of days and generations. We do not do that for other citizens either, so we do not do that for these people. In the spring we come back to the question of what the costs are for the municipalities. I see Mr Koolmees standing by the interrupting microphone. He asked about the welfare. The assistance budget will be adjusted. One of the things you know with certainty is that once people have not only left the COA facility, but also the intermediate provision, the temporary provision at municipal level, they are meant to integrate. By the way, I hope they will find work soon. In the event that they do not, they are entitled to assistance. This will also have to be reflected in the budgets and estimates. That's not an account that stays open. Again, there is simply a delay. In order to make things manageable and socially portable, also financially, we have created intermediate facilities. At all these costs in the sphere of assistance, the police, housing etc. we come back to the spring note. Mr Merkies spoke about debt and wealth. The problem mentioned does not arise only in crisis time. Just in the period prior to the crisis, the assets increased enormously in the Netherlands, but so did the debts. That's something you see more often. There is, of course, a problem if that is uneven, when capital increases in one group and debts in the other group. Mr Merkie called for attention to be paid to this. By the way, the CBS itself wrote about this that the capital inequality did not increase further in 2014. So it is also a bit about how this is framed in the media. This was the choice of words of the CBS itself. The CBS states that the increase in capital inequality, which has been so visible since the beginning of the crisis, has come to an end. De Volkskrant reports that, on its own, the capacity of the top 1%, i.e. the most wealthy, has increased over the past year. According to the CBS, the gini coefficient reflecting inequality remains the same. This is a recurring problem in the discussion about income and wealth inequality: different things can be true at the same time. Where do debts come from? Mr Merkies asked about the Nibud report. That report is called Money cases in practice 2015. The Nibud would argue that there is a different type of debt problem, especially due to fixed charges. By the way, the Nibud research shows that the percentage of Dutch people who have difficulty living with their income is stable compared to previous years. Of course, it's too high, but it's stable. At the same time, the figures from the Nibud show that households are facing risky or problematic debt more than in recent years, or are in a rescue process. There are also positive developments here. The Nibud research shows that Dutch people handle their money better than they did ten years ago. Less people are red and more people are actively working on their bank balance, according to the research. The cabinet's approach is to look explicitly at purchasing power. Moreover, the purchasing power figures have improved even further since the debate we had on the Millions Note. This applies to the purchasing power picture for all households across the different groups. When we discussed the Millions Note, we expected a plus of 1.3 on average. That has now become 1.8. This has to do with contract wage development, which is more robust than was expected at the time. Inflation is slightly lower and care premiums are slightly lower. The purchasing power picture now looks better. Mr Merkies will be interested in the position of the minima. Also for the minima and the elderly, the purchasing power picture has improved further since the treatment of the Millions Note. It also applies to the elderly who have only AOW. They are now getting strong in the plus. It is important that this group be included when things improve economically. Finally, investment. Mr Nijboer and Mr Merkies have drawn attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	The name Merkies falls and suddenly he stands at the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	I have a clarifying question. Where did these last purchasing power figures, which the Minister of Finance calls them, come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	It's the latest CPB figures from early December. I'll take a look at the officials. You always have to be careful with wrong sources, but they say it's true. They're from the CPB. Then I'll get to the investments. Several speakers have referred to the IMF: the IMF would consider that... In its report, the IMF states that the Netherlands needs to invest more in infrastructure and that budgetary space is available for that purpose. I have discussed this with the IMF and asked how they support that statement. The IMF won't like that I'm telling you, but the short summary is as follows. The IMF had to say this to Germany. Germany has budgetary space and should invest. This is good for the euro area. The IMF found it politically painful to point only to Germany and that is why it has included the Netherlands. This is how politics sometimes works within the IMF. I asked the IMF where it sees the budgetary space for the Netherlands to spend more and to invest more. The IMF acknowledged that the Netherlands does not have it. So that's what we're agreed on. I also asked the IMF whether it really thinks that the Netherlands is investing too little in infrastructure. We went over the numbers together. This shows that spending on infrastructure has been at a very high level in the Netherlands for a number of years and has survived the crisis undamaged. We sometimes have a debate in the Chamber about the fact that sometimes 2 million is going to go away, or that somewhere just 2 million is going to be added. I remember that discussion at the beginning of this cabinet period. The budget for infrastructure in the Netherlands is long-term at a high and constant level, even during the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	I can confirm this, because I drive both German and Dutch roads. I can see why the Minister is saying this. I understand his answer, but the IMF's answer is inimitable. If this means that on the one hand we have official IMF reports and on the other hand we have an explanation of exactly the opposite, I, as a parliamentarians, obviously do not know where I stand. I ask the Minister to get this officially confirmed in a letter from the IMF. Now the Minister thinks: here he comes again with the question for a letter, but you can't say it's A and then you mean the opposite? If the IMF does, it loses its credibility in the process. I ask the Minister to make an official request for an explanation, because then we will know what the policy recommendations are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	The policy recommendations are contained in the IMF report on the Netherlands. However, in the IMF's public statements, it has been said several times that the Netherlands and Germany need to spend more and invest more in infrastructure. So there is already a discrepancy within the IMF between what is actually in the report about, for example, the development of the Dutch budget and investment, and the public statements of the IMF summit. I have asked for an explanation of this and this is the explanation I have been given. If I ask what the situation is, reference will be made to the report. The report does not say that the Netherlands has fiscal space, nor that the Netherlands should spend extra money on or invest in infrastructure. In my opinion, that is the point that has been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	I would like this to be requested from the IMF on a public occasion. This is a very serious point, because it is the question of how we should deal with statements from the IMF.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	This is a public opportunity and I now give my interpretation of the various messages from the IMF. There is real light in that and I am sure that we do not have any budgetary space to spend just any more money. Our spending on infrastructure is at a high level. Our infrastructure belongs to the top; there are only one or two countries that get a higher report rate for infrastructure in a competition. Mr Omtzigt is absolutely right. If you cross the border in his region, you know when you enter Germany, unless you have a very good suspension car.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	I agree with what Mr Omtzigt said. I would like to see some confirmation from the IMF. We can ask for it through the Minister, but if he does not come up with it, we can ask for it ourselves. My recommendation, however, is that the Minister should ask the IMF again for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	I'm not gonna ask for that at all. I have already said that if you look in the IMF's country report on the Netherlands, where the Netherlands has budgetary space, you will see that there is no evidence at all that the Netherlands has budgetary space. Germany does, because it has a surplus. The IMF says to Germany that it is best to create a small deficit which can be used for investment in infrastructure. This does not apply to the Netherlands. I simply refer to the IMF report on the Netherlands. There's no such thing in there. So the fantasy that the IMF says that we need to invest more in infrastructure is out of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	Apparently, it is not so concrete in the report, but the IMF does make statements on this in general. They may be destroyed in a one-to-one conversation with the minister, but we also want to see public accountability. It would be nice if this were to be said publicly by the IMF.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	The Chambers Committee sometimes travels to the United States. Maybe next time she can go to the IMF.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	And then take the Acts of this meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	There is a discrepancy between what the IMF says about this and what is actually in the report. Then there is the investment which, in Mr Nijboer's view, is more generally lagging behind in the Netherlands. He added that the problem was mainly with industry. That's true. The large and medium-sized company in the Netherlands is good in the financial laundry; one could invest more there. We see that public spending on research and development in the Netherlands is reasonably up to date and has also remained at levels that only the FES expenditures have fallen away, but that private spending on R&D in the Netherlands is really low. We are doing a great deal to detach these investments. This is done, for example, through the top-level sector policy, where we try to get business to go free and participate. This is done through all the instruments that the Ministry of EZ has to support investment: credit facilities, risk-investment and the setting up of funds. These instruments are all intended to detach private investments and not to take them over. Moreover, as a result of the crisis, we see that growth is currently being widely supported. Mr Harbers pointed this out. Investment is part of this broad consensus. The investments are really attracting at the moment. The December estimate estimated the investments plus 7% for 2015 and 2016. Through EZ and Finance initiatives, we continue to try to get more investment off the ground, as the NLII does, also to make the best use of Juncker funds. Mr Omtzigt has called for attention to be paid to underutilization in the defence sector. That is indeed a more structural problem. The Ministry of Defence, with the help of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, is in the process of organising financial management and administration and thus investment plans much better so that more real planning can be achieved. Part of the agreement is that the Ministry of Defence has an unlimited annual margin. We would prefer to see certain investment expenditure for Defence.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, it is true that there is a need to improve planning and management, including investment. They're working on that, too. The full amount that has not been spent in the Department of Defense is moving forward to next year. It has already been fully planned for what it should be spent on. I don't have any specific information on investment in rail. However, that debate is being held with Secretary of State Dijksma. Mr Van Dijk has asked questions about monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	I'll come back to the defense agreements. I asked if 2015 is the last year in which the Defence budget is 1.08% of GDP or less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	I have to go back to that in my second contribution. I don't have that answer ready. By the way, I think it is a good thing that the CDA is bringing this up. During the last period in which the CDA was in charge of the Ministry of Defense, a huge cut has been put in place. That cut is still ticking every year in the Defense Organization. The cut of 1 billion from the Hillen period is half repaired under the present cabinet. Let me just say this, because it is so naive that the CDA always speaks very strongly about the fact that too little money is being spent by the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	The Minister does this every time. In this cabinet period, additional savings were made, a number of hundreds of millions, during the talks in 2012 on the government agreement. On top of that, both last year and this year there is under-exhaustment, rising to 200 million. So more than half a billion extra has been cut. In the CDA counter-budget, that was exactly the other way around. You continue to talk about the figures of the last cabinet, while the questions we ask about when so little has been spent for the last time cannot be answered. Well, then come with it first, before you start one of those you-bowls.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	Those specific detailed questions come in the second term. Under-exhaustment in the Defense Department is not a cut; that money simply moves across the annual line and will be spent in the Defense Department. However, it is true that the defence organisation is still suffering from an immense austerity from the previous cabinet period. I keep repeating that. Now that the atmosphere is so good: Mr Omtzigt has also asked a question about CoCo's. Specifically, his question was whether it was true that the European Commission is investigating CoCos and State aid to CoCos. According to my information, that is not the case. The European Commission has asked questions to the Netherlands as a result of the publicity and we have answered those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	I didn't ask that question by accident. Yesterday I received a letter from the European Commission. I didn't get those documents from the minister, so I thought I'd have to ask them there. The Commission also refused. The reason why the Commission refused the CoCo documents is: The documents you request access to, form part of the case file in the pending state aid investigation under article 107 of the Treaty on the functioning of the European Union, in which no final decision has yet been adopted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	Would you like to view the core of this in English?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	That's what I want to do. By the way, English is one of the four official languages of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	That may be true, but in this Parliament we speak Dutch and we want to be able to be followed. A quote can of course, but then it is useful if you explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	The Commission states that it cannot provide the documents on the CoCos we have requested, because there is an open investigation into State aid under Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that no final decision has yet been taken. Hence my question: has the CoCos been investigated and state aid or not? It is useful for me to know how to object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	Perhaps the Minister in his answer also explains in one sentence what "CoCos" are?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	CoCos are capital instruments in the banking balance sheet that can be converted if the balance sheet deteriorates and becomes unhealthy. In such a case, they can be converted from foreign to equity. Having said that, I must also say that I am no more well-known than that the Commission has asked us questions about publicity. She wanted to know what's going on. We have answered these questions or are working on them. Whether this has already been formally done, Mr Omtzigt could draw his attention from his passage. I therefore listen with interest to his correspondence with the Commission. The fact that he has his own correspondence with the Commission as an individual parliamentarians makes my work more difficult; but well, that is all possible. That information has not reached me, so all I know is that the Commission has asked us questions and, I assume, will decide on the basis of our answers whether there is a case for a state aid investigation. I do not know whether this is already the case. Anyway, I don't want to disagree with Mr Omtzigt about things where I actually have to sail on information from others. I think I've had the most important questions by now. There was another question from Mr Koolmees about standard returns on state participations. We are in the process of implementing all the policy changes contained in the memorandum on state participations. We are, of course, doing so in consultation with the State's participations. These are changes in statutes, agreements on standard returns and sometimes remuneration policies. We're doing it successfully. I will return to this in my second term. My view is that in the annual report on State participations we always report on how cases per State participation have been processed. In doing so, we go through both the statutes, the remuneration policy and the standard returns. The Chamber is therefore always informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	This seems to me to be the end of the Prime Minister's answer in the first term, unless there is still some kind of broom truck on the move. Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	In my view, the Minister has forgotten a block, namely Europe and the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	I started with a sentence on that subject and then there was an interruption by Mr Omtzigt. That phrase is always the same. I believe that monetary policy should be in the hands of independent central bankers. I cannot forbid Mr Van Dijck to have an opinion on this, but as a minister I am not speaking on whether monetary policy is good or bad or whether it should be. I think we should be cautious with political pressure on the people who manage the money supply for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr Van Dijck can also do a substantive reflection in the second term. If he has any further questions, he can ask them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	I keep hearing this answer. The minister says he's not about monetary policy. However, this minister deals with the interests of Dutch citizens and pension funds and pensions for the future. The day before yesterday I myself heard him say, in an empty Chamber of the European Parliament, that the ECB is on the verge of what is fair and what the ECB should be doing, but that it is now up to the countries to reform structuralally. However, the ECB is only at the beginning of the 1,500 billion it wants to pump into Europe's economy. This minister must, in other words, ensure that pension funds go even further under water and that they drown soon. Then it is this minister who is being called to the Chamber. If she says that the Minister should have intervened and he did not, then he cannot get away with saying that that is monetary policy and that it is not about that, while our pension funds of 1,400 billion have dried up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	For the moment, I think there is a majority in the Chamber who agrees with me that the cabinet should not intervene in monetary policy. We put that in the hands of independent central bankers. If a majority of the House says to me that I must have influence on monetary policy and that politics is putting its hands on the money supply, then we have a different situation. I would, by the way, strongly advise the Chamber not to do so. I said in the European Parliament that central bankers go very far in supporting our economic recovery; accommodating and supporting is maximum. They come to the limits of their effectiveness. The question then is what else you can do and whether this will have an impact on economic recovery. That's how I talked about it. This means that the task is now really with us to put things in order and to tackle the structural problems in our economy. This applies to all European countries. I will repeat that every day, that is my main message, including in the euro group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	Germany and the Netherlands and also Mr Klaas Knot reject the ECB's policy. There are, I believe, five countries in the board that disagree with Draghi's policy and that are being overruled. What is happening now is simply very bad for the Netherlands and the surplus countries in general. It would be good for Italy and Greece, but it is very bad for the Netherlands and the surplus countries. It would not be foolish at all to forge a consortium with these countries, to see if this could be reduced. The ECB, with Draghi in the lead, goes on and on. Last week, the Minister himself heard this. The ECB went from 1 140 billion to 1 500 billion and was extended for a six-month period. It is a medicine that is not working and that is only bad for our pensions and our savings. Isn't that what the Minister has an opinion on and a responsibility in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	That last point is precisely the point. I can have an opinion on it, and if I get it out here, I am already engaged in political interference and political influence of a decision that we all have put a long Dutch tradition of common sense in the hands of central bankers. That central bank is no longer in Amsterdam, but in Frankfurt and yes, the Netherlands is also represented in it. Klaas Knot is a driver there. He is not on behalf of the Netherlands, but as an independent director of the central bank of the Eurozone, the ECB. He sometimes expresses his views, even in conversations with you. That is also exactly where the responsibility should lie, namely with the ECB's management of which Klaas Knot is part. I'm not gonna get involved in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I note that there is a need for a second term on the part of the Chamber and that we can start with that right away. I am therefore happy to give the floor to Mr Merkies on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. Mr Nijboer mentioned that too little investment is being made by companies; I think too little investment is being made by the government itself. I had not for nothing quoted the IMF talking about well-thought-out, smart investments where every euro delivers three euros. This could include investments in health, the knowledge economy and a sustainable society. However, the Minister got over it quite quickly. Apparently, the Netherlands is not in the dock at the IMF, but this has apparently been said in a one-on-one discussion. However, I would like to propose to the House that we discuss this once again with the IMF. Then the purchasing power. I have reviewed the December estimate to which the Minister referred. We know that minima and the elderly are the victims of the policy agreed upon on Princess Day. Maybe things have changed since then. However, I have not been able to find those purchasing power figures specifically in the December estimate. I am referring to the subdivision and, in particular, the purchasing power of the minima. Finally, I will deal with the refugees. That is an important point, on which I would also like to make a motion. The Minister said that we are not going to scrape out the ODA budget, the budget for development cooperation. I wouldn't want that either for the next few years and certainly not over the cabinet period. Mr Slob has previously tabled a motion on the current routes, which he wants to avoid being compromised. That motion only covered next year. My motion goes over the years after that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that in the General Political Reviews the motion-Slob c.s. (34300, No. 23), which calls for structural additional funds to be earmarked for first-year care in the Netherlands in 2016 and for reception in the region, while avoiding the ongoing OS programme lines;]] [[Considering that the costs of first-year asylum treatment are eating up an increasing proportion of the ODA budget;]] [[Considering that the growth of the ODA budget will be used in the coming years for the rising costs of first-year shelter;]] [[calls on the Government, even in the coming years, to avoid any setbacks in the costs of first-year shelter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34350-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	That motion sounded good to me, but I thought we had already adopted it. I wonder what the difference is between the motion adopted and this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	The motion adopted is only about next year and my motion is about the years after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	I've got the motion Slob c.s. This is not the case at the moment, but as far as I know it was about the structural relief of the current lines of the programme. That is exactly what Mr Merkies wants with his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yeah, well, there could be new setbacks. Of course, we can respond to that again. At some point, the entire space for ODA has just been used up. That's my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u83	I will discuss with my group what we are doing with double motions, because in itself we are always voting in favour of something that we are in favour of, but if we have already voted in favour of it, I do not know what we are doing with exactly the same motion. You will see that in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u84	This problem is likely to occur more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u85	I don't think it's entirely double, because my motion goes in next years. It is said, for example, that the flow of asylum seekers will decrease enormously after next year. That's just the question. It could be that the influx is still large. Then money must be sought again. At some point, these lines of action are indeed at risk. By the way, I think it would be good to start something new and not just do what you started once, but that aside. At least I want to secure those lines of programme. It seems to me that the PvdA should be very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u86	As I said in my first term, asylum seekers cost us 1.7 billion in first year care this year. If Mr Merkies does not want to pay that out of the ODA budget, I would like to know where he gets the cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u87	That's not how it works. This is about the same question that Mr Van Dijck asked earlier. We provide total coverage in our counter-budget and also in our electoral programmes. Mr Van Dijck pretends the costs aren't there when you close your eyes. He thinks the refugees away for a while, like they're gone. Those refugees are there, and we need to provide them with proper care. In the end, I believe that this will lead to a cost reduction compared to his scenario. If you do nothing and do not arrange shelter for these people, it will only cause bigger problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u88	You don't agree; that's clear. I really only allow questions relating to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u89	My question concerns the motion. We are not closing our eyes, we are closing our borders. So we don't have those costs anymore. That's the difference. That 1.7 billion has to be paid for by the Dutch taxpayer. Mr Merkies says that it should not be out of the ODA budget and that the SP in its electoral programme shows that... Perhaps Mr Merkies could give an advance on that election programme and indicate where the 1.7 billion is coming from? Probably at the expense of the elderly and all those people the SP claims to stand up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u90	The question is clear. Mr Merkies, a brief answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u91	I'm gonna ask another question. Where does Mr Van Dijck get the money to put that fence around the Netherlands that has to be hermetically sealed? Does Mr Van Dijck know how much that costs? I don't think he took a post for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers in this debate. It is the end of the year, so I would like to thank you for all the answers and debates this year. We did not agree on all the answers, but today we do. That is usually the case when I debate the state budget with this minister. I also welcome the answer to the question about the IMF and how we should now look at the IMF's call for investment and the coloring and nuance that has been given to it. I am thinking of this in mind if the IMF were to consider that the debt on Greece should be written off. We'll know there might be a little more nuance. I come to the triple A status that I mentioned in my first term. Indeed, the Minister has now made it clear how this has been done, and that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has played a role in this. I remember the discussion about this, and how we had to convince him that the opinion of Standard & Poor's on the Netherlands was perhaps too negative and the opinion of Caribbean Netherlands might be too positive. This may have had to do with the fact that they had accidentally put the specialist Caribbean Netherlands at the table instead of the specialist Netherlands. At least I have a question about that. Can the costs of travel from the Chambers Committee to Standard & Poor's be charged to the Agency? Indeed, there is a special form of investor relations on behalf of the Agency of the Ministry. Finally, I would like to reflect on the answers on under-exhaustment. I would have asked for this, also with regard to the deadline. I am reassured by what the Minister said about this, namely that it is still to be expected that the gap will be filled and that the figures for recent years will also be taken into account. Because honestly, I wouldn't want the alternative either. The alternative is that earlier in the year you will see what is to be expected from underexhaustment. But that will probably increase the pressure on the departments to spend that money anyway. The only way to stop that is to roam it earlier in the year. So I can agree with the chosen method. What I would like to emphasise is a point made by Mr Koolmees. That's about the under-exhaustment of the Defense Department. Of course, this can be taken on board through an infinite year-end margin, but it is important for the department to actually prepare itself, including in terms of human resources, for an era where more budget is available, so that the increased scope for investment can actually be used in the coming years. I'll finish with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. I thank you for your answer. This is indeed not the most exciting debate, but I notice that there are at least two MPs who think they have done more about triple A status than the Minister. However, I would like to put this matter on the record of the government; it has been worked hard to get the third A back. My interruption at the IMF may have been a bit harsh, but it did come out of my toes. We have seen in recent years that reports from the IMF, sometimes on Greece, were political or not. The added value of an institute such as the IMF is only present if we know that it comes to a recommendation on purely technical grounds and that you may disagree on academic grounds but that there is no political consideration behind it. If that is the case, we will have a problem with such institutions. I would ask the government to agree to that view. Because if this could have happened in the reports on Greece, then we are really having a very different discussion here than on the Dutch roads. I'm gonna wait for the answer on the DOD. Mr. Chairman. Since there is an interest in it, I propose that the letter from the European Commission should be added to the Acts if possible. I can also send it digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u94	The proposal is for a review of the CIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u95	I think it might be useful if this one gets an official Chamberpiece number because it's also an official letter. So that's different from a piece and a calculation; that's what I sometimes have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u96	It is used to empty it at the CIP for inspection. If you insist on doing it the way you want, I will discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u97	No, I'll leave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u98	All right, then we'll add it to the CIP. If you'd like to hand over the letter, that's how it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u99	And also a copy to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u100	At least it's gonna be okay. I'm improving myself. Now I say CIP instead of Central Information Point of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u101	I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government estimates the number of asylum seekers in 2016 by an influx of 58,000 persons;]] [[whereas this is covered by only half of the 2016 budget, whereas expenditure already takes place as from 1 January and the adoption of higher expenditure than is currently in the budget cannot wait until the decision-making process of the Spring Note;]] [[request a letter of amendment by 1 March 2016 at the latest, or send a supplementary budget to the Chamber, covering expenditure on asylum seekers in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has paid gross post-tax payments on the EU contribution, with the reimbursement to reach the net amount depending on the adoption of an additional EU budget;]] [[whereas post levies and recalculations of the level of GNI of Member States are in principle unrelated to additional EU budgets and should therefore not be dependent on the additional EU budget;]] [[Whereas making proposals on a new design of the EU budget is one of the objectives of the Dutch Presidency which will start on 1 January;]] [[calls on the Minister to include the desire to release the link between post-tax payments and the adoption of additional EU budgets in the discussions on a new design of the EU budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34350-4]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34350-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u102	I would like to add my voice to the question put by Mr Van Dijck of the PVV and to put a question to the Minister. Given the total buy-back programme of the ECB and the national banks which are also buying-up state loans, does he think that this is purely monetary policy or monetary financing of government loans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr. Chairman. We fought side by side in America for that third A, and it's back. I have not paid too much attention to this myself, also because I consider the importance of the credit rating agencies in the world to be more than large enough and frankly consider our own assessment of the state of the economy and the analyses that are being made, for example by the CPB, the Dutch Bank and others, more relevant than those who understand the Caribbean Netherlands, which we did indeed talk about at the time, as Mr Harbers said, and who also thought they knew something about the Netherlands. But I'm still happy with that third A. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to involve the setbacks in purchasing power decision-making. This means that, contrary to what the CDA wants, each minister has to stop his own budget and, if he doesn't like it, he immediately gets a blow to the head and needs to be found there. Then development cooperation. It's a good thing the Minister limited that. There will be no next round with a few more years added and money from the future that is being brought forward. I think that is a good thing. In budgetary terms it is still possible to maintain the five-year period, but on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists I would point out that not everything that is technically possible must necessarily be done in the spring. It is the PvdA Group's preference to cover setbacks in an ongoing year with windfalls in that current year and not, from the same budget, many years on. That is our starting point. We do not yet know whether there will be any setbacks in asylum in the spring, although this is possible, and whether there will be windfalls elsewhere. As far as my group is concerned, that is the order. I'll give that to the Minister. The Minister indicated, as a joke, in the debate that he always preferred the money not to be spent. That's good for a finance minister, but he's also there for the public cause. It is precisely investments, especially those that I have just advocated on behalf of my group, that naturally require public expenditure. They must also be done in good time. In this respect, there is still work to be done, for example in the Ministry of Defence, but also in the Department of I and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr. Chairman. I missed the block of unemployment in the first period of the answer. The Minister can, of course, hide behind the fact that he is not talking about this and that we should be with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, but unemployment must also concern the Minister for Finance. There are 600,000 unemployed and that number does not want to go down, while at the same time 120,000 asylum seekers are allowed in who do not all go equal to work. This increases unemployment. At the same time, I'm reading reports of 12,000 layoffs at TSN, 9,000 at Rabobank, and we have 53,000 Poles, Bulgarians and Romanians with benefits. In other words, unemployment will rise in the coming years rather than fall due to this cabinet policy. Then there is the question of asylum and Mr Verbon's comment yesterday that this could be the end of the welfare state. Can the Minister confirm this or is the Minister more in line with De Nederlandsche Bank, which states that this could be very good for the economic growth of 0.14%? What is it now? Is this bad for the welfare state or good for the economy? I can't imagine the latter being the case. The Minister shall make an advance on the ODA budget up to 2020 in order to finance the asylum tsunami. That worries me very much, because that is the way this minister rules over his grave. If a subsequent cabinet wants to abolish the ODA budget, there may be a legal obligation and it can no longer be done. Does the Minister agree with me? Is he going to make sure that at least it's not legally mandatory what he's doing? Nor is it consistent with the Minister when it comes to asylum reception. On the one hand, the Minister says that it comes from the ODA budget, but that 350 million from the Autumn note is paid through under-utilisation in the budget of the departments. That's not consistent. It is from the ODA budget, it may be, but it must also come from the ODA budget. I'd rather not at all, but if it happens, it has to be out of the ODA budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u105	The budget for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u106	Yes. Will the Minister make a change to the Navy note, so that this money does not come from under-utilisation of 350 million in the budget of the departments? Finally, the EU return. The Minister did not say anything about this in the first term, but I did ask a question about it. I understand that, because for next year, this minister is gonna have a big game attacker waiting for him. We would then have to get a three-year reduction, an amount of 3 billion, while we would not get a refund of 250 million planned for this year back until next year. The question to this Minister is: why is he always at the front when payments are due to Brussels and why is he at the back of the refund and let it happen that every refund is pushed backwards? For two years we have been waiting for a discount that we have stipulated. Now we are getting a refund on an earlier payment, a previous post-tax. That too is pushed over the year. Can this be changed and how does the Minister intend to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u107	Then, after three quarters of a roll of peppermint, I can give the floor to Mr Koolmees for a new attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do my best. Thanks for the candy in the first term of the messenger. It worked, I hope. I thank the Minister for the clear answer. It is good that he recognises the important role of the permanent finance committee in recovering the third A. I would like to stress that Mr Van Dijck played a heroic role in this. He came in and said, "We want our third A back." For the chairman: "We want our third A back."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u109	Not for the chairman, for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u110	But I'm not ruling out that it's also policy-related. I have two more points. The first concerns the municipalities. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that the estimates will include any expenditure on assistance, so that the costs do not end up unilaterally with the municipalities. I think this is an important commitment. I think that's a good thing. In the first term, I asked the Minister for a reflection on the DNB estimate. I saw that the deficit remains high in 2017, at 2.2%, while the structural deficit continues to grow to 2.5%. I was wondering if the minister would recognize where this came from. Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union has tabled an amendment. For the sake of completeness, I would like to have a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr. Chairman. This time I'm going by the order of the speakers. This is sometimes more convenient in the second term. Mr Merkies has once again called for attention to be paid to public investment. He said that every euro of investment will yield three euros. This would apply to health, sustainability and infrastructure. That does not seem to me to be holding up, certainly not in a general sense. Not every euro we spend on infrastructure will yield three for the economy. In general, you cannot say that, because it is of course very much at the level of infrastructure or the level of health care in a country which is the added value of an additional investment of one euro. It doesn't matter what you invest in. Mr Merkies says with great ease that any expenditure on health care, sustainability and infrastructure is just right. I do not see when the law he has imposed will cease and so I think that is too harsh an approach. The Netherlands invests and, of course, it is interesting to see that in recent years, the Netherlands has not only been able to maintain investment in infrastructure at the same high level as in the past. The same applies to education. These are investments in the future, too. Education expenditure remained at a high level and even increased slightly during the crisis period during the crisis. We are therefore looking at the importance of public investment, but we are very focused and critical of the way in which the money is spent. Not every euro is worth three euros; from the point of view of the Minister for Finance, that is a very dangerous reasoning. So I wouldn't want to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u112	This is typical of what this Finance Minister always does, which is to quote a statement from me wrong, which is a bit ridiculous and then say that it is very crazy. I shall therefore repeat what I said. I actually gave a quote of a quote, because it was in an article by Johannes ten Cate yesterday. He gave a quote from the IMF's World Economic Outlook, which says that every investment in infrastructure, provided well-thought-out and smartly funded, produces three euros of economic growth. That's the quote I gave. It would adorn the minister if he took the quote like that and didn't give it some kind of twist so he could make fun of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u113	Excuse me, I didn't mean to ridicule Mr Merkies or his contribution. Mr Merkies really expanded it to sustainability and health care. It's a clause, because it's got to be cleverly deployed and smartly funded. That is already reassuring, but I think that every euro in the three areas mentioned by Mr Merkies would lead to three euros of extra growth in the economy is too short. Public investment must be well targeted and complementary to private investment. Of course, it must be cleverly funded. Once again, the investments in the Netherlands, at least on the public side, have always been protected and maintained during the crisis despite all the cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u114	Let me just say what I meant by it, so that at least the Minister gets that message. My general view of the way in which the cabinet now handles it is that extra expenditure is always the throwing away of money, when, for example, it can be about investment...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u115	This is really a repeat of moves. You've already made this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u116	Sorry, I'll make it a point of order and then I'll turn to the chairman. Yes, may I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u117	I'm not doing anything. I'm not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u118	I was pushed away for a while. Well, I guess I'll just address it to the chairman. If I find that my words are interpreted quite differently, I may give the right intention that I wanted to convey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u119	Sure, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u120	If you don't give me that opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u121	That's what you did in your previous interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u122	No, because it was about me being miscited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u123	I'm not going to argue with you. Finish your question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u124	This is about the fact that investment should not be seen as throwing away money, but as investment in care and knowledge-based economy and, above all, with the climate agreement in mind in sustainable economy. In the end, this can also generate money, in addition to a lot of well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u125	And I agree again. Furthermore, Mr Merkies asked about the purchasing power of minima. It is true that the December CPB estimate only shows the average. The average purchasing power improvement across all groups will rise from 1.3% to 1.8% next year. If you look at the underlying causes, purchasing power is more favourable due to much higher contract wages and lower inflation. This also benefits the minima, and this translates into an even better purchasing power picture for minima and pensioners. Those were the groups Mr Merkies and the cabinet were worried about. Then Mr Merkies says that the ODA budget should not be taxed over the cabinet period. That's what his motion says. I don't share that reasoning with him. We have a multiannual budget that looks forward five years. The current budget covers the period from 2016 to 2020 and I think that in that period it is permissible to move. The motion will be dealt with in detail in a moment. Mr Harbers requested that the costs of the trip to Standard & Poor's be charged to the Agency. I will record with the officer whether he has any room for that in his budget, but it might be good to discuss who will bear the costs before the Chamber travels. That seems to me to be the only right way of budgeting and not filing the bill afterwards, even if it has been a successful journey. I understand by now that Mr Van Dijck has slapped his purse on the table at Standard & Poor's in New York. The auction of Mrs Thatcher's handbags will take place shortly. Because the Victoria and Albert Museum was not willing to include the clothing and handbags of the former Prime Minister in its collection, they are now being auctioned off privately, including for the general public. I can still suggest to Mr Van Dijck to make an offer on one of the allegedly 156 handbags of former Prime Minister Thatcher.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u126	So much so on her footwear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u127	Then on her footwear, Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt expressed his concern about the IMF. I have also expressed this concern to the IMF. At that time it was said that in the communication Netherlands and Germany were thrown into one heap and that this was not right, if you look at the underlying report on the Netherlands. That closes the case for me. If Mr Omtzigt appeals to me on the communication 'The Netherlands must invest more in infrastructure'I will give him this explanation. It's not from the report. I think the misunderstanding has arisen because the Netherlands and Germany are often lumped together in Europe and in international analyses, because of the large current account surplus. Then it is: the countries with large surpluses must invest more. The Netherlands also invests a lot, but the Chamber knows why the current account in the Netherlands is so high. That money does not accumulate with the government and not on my budget; it accumulates in pension funds, for example. From there, investment is being made, but that is happening worldwide. In short, there is real confusion here, and I raised this in my discussions with the IMF. I have not yet received the answer, and I would like to look at my people in the benches in the back of the Chamber, Mr Omtzigt's question, as to whether it has ever happened before that so much money remains unused in the defence sector on an annual basis. That wasn't his question, I understand. I thought there was another question from Mr Omtzigt about whether something had happened before in the defense department. No? I may have misunderstood, but my officials may have noted it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u128	The question was when the Netherlands spent only 1.08% of GDP on the Defence budget for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u129	Right. We'll see if we can give the answer to that so quickly. That could be quite a challenge. Otherwise we will come back to that in writing. This seems to me to be a factual question which can actually be answered. I'll be right back on the motions. Mr Omtzig has asked whether, in my opinion, there is monetary financing of public debt in Europe. That's not allowed, so the answer to that is no. There is a discussion in the German press about the so-called ANFA holding companies. These are activities that national central banks have taken in the context of what they are allowed to do, namely investment policy. The question is whether this size was actually approved by the ECB. The ECB itself says that all this has been done in accordance with arrangements made by the Central ECB. I take note of that. I have no information other than the information provided by the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u130	You may place an interruption, but in view of the clock, I would ask you to be brief, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u131	Both the VVD and the CDA have asked written questions about this. One of the members of the European Central Bank, Mr Mersch, himself indicated that Ireland was in line with the agreements from 2014. With such answers, you know that in 2013, when the acquisition was of Anglo Irish and more than 50% of their balance sheet consisted of ANFA, it was not in line with the agreements. I would therefore like the Minister to be able to ascertain what arrangements have been made and whether everyone has complied with them. Can he come back to that in the new year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u132	I'm willing to look into that. Of course, I have to answer the questions put by the Chamber, but if it goes beyond my competence, for example in relation to the central banks, then I will also make that clear. However, it cannot be said that you are now the supervisor and you must intervene with the ECB. I don't have that role and I can't move with it in that way. I'm not gonna do that, but I'll try to answer the questions as factually as possible. I will have to rely on the information I receive from the ECB. I don't have a position in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u133	But there's a letter coming to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u134	No, there will be answers to the written questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u135	Okay, fine, that's running. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u136	Otherwise, we'll have to do it twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u137	We're not gonna do that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr Nijboer expressed the political wish that the growth area of ODA would rather not be used in the coming years for rising asylum spending. I share that wish. I hope that expenditure on asylum will return to a rapid decline, but we do not know how it will develop in the coming years. Mr Nijboer also expressed the wish to take part in the debate. But to spend money while I said if the money stays down, it's not a big deal. Of course, I agree with him. It was a joke on my part. The Minister of Finance always likes it when the money stays in the treasury, but the cabinet of course also has just public goals to serve, such as building and maintaining infrastructure. That money simply needs to be spent so that our infrastructure remains at the best level. The same applies to education or other policy objectives. We didn't budget to achieve under-exhaustment, but to achieve social goals, and that's what the money can be spent on. I missed another question from Mr Omtzigt a little too quickly. It was about the post-taxes, the post-pays. When do you have to pay now? When do you get your money back? Can't we do that at once? Why do you pay quickly and then have to wait a long time before you get a part back at the settlement? This system is simply laid down in European laws and regulations. If the system has been followed properly and if the calculations are correct, the Netherlands will comply with the agreements made on how we jointly finance Europe. That's my point. This reimbursement is linked to the EU's eighth supplementary budget, which has already been adopted. That refund is due at the beginning of next year. It is true that we have been discussing this system with the Commission since the great debate on post-taxation. We have already achieved a number of things in this and we still have a number of things on our agenda. In this way, the laws and regulations will be adapted in such a way that payment and reimbursement will be combined at one time in the future. That moment will then be postponed to spring, even at our request, rather than late in the autumn. The post-tax 2014 came suddenly at the end of the year. That goes to one moment and that will be in the spring. This makes it much more adaptable, including in the national fiscal system. I also informed the Chamber in detail about this in my letter on the eighth supplementary budget. On the further points we have on our agenda regarding the improvement of this system of payments, post-taxes and so on, I will keep the Chamber informed in the coming months, including during the Dutch Presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u139	Are you at the motions yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u140	I'll deal with the motions separately. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck has once again spoken about unemployment. I didn't hear a question in that. The fact is that unemployment is falling too slowly. That is one of the reasons why we designed the budget as we designed it. The core of the 5 billion package is that it has two effects. Firstly, in the short term, there will be just spending because extra money will end up in people's pockets. Secondly, the long-term effect is that more people can work, especially at the bottom of the labour market. This is clearly meant from the point of view of employment. Mr Van Dijck says that unemployment will rise sooner. That is a complete blow in the air, as we know it from him. I'm gonna ignore that for a second. Mr Van Dijck asked whether the current influx of asylum seekers would lead to the end of the welfare state. I do not agree with Mr Verbon's statement. I myself said something about this a few weeks ago, namely that the influx is putting enormous pressure on the welfare state. This has to do with the functioning of the labour market, but also with the use that these people are going to make of all kinds of services, such as social housing, social security and care. At the same time, we simply know that in a society such as ours with an enlarged welfare state, it is particularly difficult for migrants to get to work. We can't underestimate that. That is why I am sceptical about those who say that it will be good for the Dutch economy in the short term. I don't know. I think it will take a great deal of effort, primarily from the migrants themselves, to get to work as quickly as possible. This group seems relatively more educated than previous migration groups, but it is not certain that this means that they will get to work quickly in the Netherlands. In this context, I would like to draw attention to all kinds of language problems, to the recognition of diplomas and to the great cultural differences with our society, which is so strange to them. We really shouldn't underestimate that. So I'm a little between Verbon and DNB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u141	The number of 600,000 unemployed does not include the 120,000 asylum seekers, hence my extrapolation that unemployment will rise rather than fall. After all, this year and next year, the cabinet will allow 120,000 asylum seekers. In other words, I understand Mr Verbon saying that the influx puts such pressure on the labour market and employment that it puts a bomb under the welfare state. That is a very logical reasoning. In addition, all benefits, assistance and supplements must be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u142	What is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u143	The question is whether the Minister agrees with me that if you extrapolate this, unemployment will increase rather than decrease as a result of the asylum influx.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u144	No, you can't say that again. Yeah, it's definitely putting pressure on the welfare state. It will be an immense challenge to ensure that these people actually integrate, as far as they remain in the Netherlands, because some will undoubtedly return at some point. That's gonna be a huge task. You can't add that number one-two-three to unemployment. There are many movements in the development of unemployment. All kinds of newcomers are coming into the labour market. There are a lot of new vacancies. As the Chamber knows, the number of jobs is indeed growing. However, the number of newcomers to the labour market, including Dutch "newcomers," is also increasing considerably as we emerge from the crisis. There are all kinds of such effects in the unemployment rate. You can't just say that unemployment is rising by 58.000 because there are 58.000 newcomers. I therefore disagree with Mr Van Dijck. Finally, Mr Van Dijck asked a question about the mega-evaller that I can expect next year. I know him as an optimistic man, especially when it comes to Europe. I must temper his enthusiasm for Europe...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u145	It was in quotes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u146	Ah! It is a little more limited than Mr Van Dijck thinks. It is a total of 443 million which we will receive in repayments from Europe. The post-calculation 2015 refund, a continued second repayment of the large post-tax of late 2014, refund of higher import duties and higher fine revenue at European level. All in all, that's 443 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u147	443 million plus the 2014 discount of 1 billion, plus the 2015 discount of 1 billion, plus the 2016 discount of 1 billion. That's 3.5 billion. How is the Minister going to incorporate that into his budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u148	I try to temper Mr Van Dijck's European enthusiasm, but I failed. He's bringing in something else now. This concerns the arrangements made for the adoption of the new Multiannual Financial Framework for Europe. In this context, the Netherlands receives roughly 1 billion back on an annual basis. Their processing requires ratification of the new own resources decision in all countries. That's delayed again. We've had that 1 billion for two years now. It simply comes into the budget and has been incorporated for a long time. The amount is not in the Navy's note, but Mr Van Dijck has already been able to find it in the Million Note. Mr Koolmees asked about the DNB estimate on the structural deficit. I have a few comments to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u149	Can I have a quick and concise answer? We have a very full agenda today. I'd like an answer, but brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u150	I thought we were the main programme today. The economic outlook is good in all estimates. The estimates, including those of DNB, are all around 2%. There's a lot of international uncertainty. We sail on the CEP estimate when drawing up the 2017 budget, which will come in spring. Windows are tricky anyway. Two years ahead windows, because asked for 2017, is completely tricky. I had another look at what DNB estimated for this year at the end of 2013. DNB then expected us to reach a deficit of 3.2. As we know, we're at 2.3. So it's really hard to estimate two years ahead. The economic outlook is good. The structural deficit is even more difficult to estimate. Everyone knows how volatile that is. We will of course ensure that we stay on the path. Defence expenditure as a percentage of GDP has not previously been 1% according to CPB figures in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u151	Mr Omtzigt, also briefly and factually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u152	That Cordelia hasn't been around that long. I'm afraid the Minister must go back to before World War II. I would like to hear the year that the defence budget last represented about 0.8% of GDP. That should be available. You can do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u153	I am prepared to calculate every figure and dig into the deepest archives for Mr Omtzigt. The political answer remains, of course, that expenditure has been extremely reduced by the 1 billion cut in the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u154	I miss the Minister's assessment of the motions and the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u155	The most important thing I've forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u156	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u157	The motion in part No. 3 belongs to Mr Merkies. I will not interfere with the question as to what this adds to the Slob motion. The Christian Union Group is not present now, but I would like to respect the Slob motion. It says exactly the same thing. There can be no misunderstanding about that. The Slob motion calls on the government to increase structural expenditure on reception in the region and reception in the Netherlands. We don't. We are doing it step-by-step, because we cannot see how structural the current asylum influx will be. I hope he's not structural. We have, however, respected the request to avoid running programme expenditure. That piece of the operative part was not provided with a year. There was no 2015 or 2016, so I assume this was meant to be forward-looking. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. This motion is already there. We shall do so as far as possible; I have said so in response to the Slob motion. That's how I understand the word "relaxed." It doesn't say it couldn't be done at all, but it's called "refriendliness." We will do so as much as possible. I advise the motion given that it has no added value, at least not for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u158	This is a bit of the way in which motions are discouraged. We do not agree, or: we do and then the motion is not necessary. I recognize this, but this motion goes on in the sense that it is implied that it is also about years to come. Then the lines of the programme could also be compromised. It is therefore stated that the lines of the programme should not be jeopardised in the coming years if unforeseen circumstances occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u159	It is up to Mr Merkies and the Chamber to decide. My view is that this statement is already made in the Slob motion without mentioning a year. It also refers to 'running lines to be spared'. Once again, the Christian Union Group is not represented in this debate, but I think it would be chic to put the Slob motion at the centre and follow it over the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u160	Now the Minister is pretending that my motion is a nullification of the Slob motion; it is certainly not. My motion is aimed precisely at respecting this and at securing it for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u161	I dissuade the motion, but the verdict is, of course, up to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's opinion is that although the cabinet has adjusted the estimate of the number of asylum seekers for 2016, there is only half coverage. I can't place where this came from. Perhaps we can clarify this misunderstanding. COA expenditure shall be fully covered. Perhaps the misunderstanding has arisen as a result of a new agreement between BHOS and the COA on the moment when expenditure on an individual asylum seeker can be claimed from BHOS. That used to happen before. As soon as an asylum seeker comes in, it's paid for a whole year. It has now been agreed that it will be paid in the year in which the expenditure takes place. So if an asylum seeker arrives in the Netherlands in the middle of 2016, the COA will receive half of the amount in 2016 and the other half in 2017. Maybe that's what caused the misunderstanding. This is a technical agreement between these two government organizations. We'll put over 400 million on top of it next year. That really is not half the expected expenditure; that is a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u162	That amount of 400 million has been announced, but it has not been included in the Autumn note or in the letter of amendment; it is only included in an annex. My question now is whether the Minister would formally indicate what this amount is paid for. That is why I am asking for this before 1 March, because I understand that we do not do so in one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u163	Ah, the demand is therefore focused on technical processing and underlying budgets. They'll come in the spring with the Spring note. However, in the annex to the Navy note we indicate how we cover this, except for the package that we have agreed with the municipalities. The municipalities are already getting extra money for all kinds of things. Part of the discussion with the municipalities, such as the assistance, will also take place in the spring. We have already made agreements with them on another part. Moreover, they do not relate to structural money. Measures amounting to 112 million will be covered once. We have agreed with the ministries that they must incorporate this in the spring. That is the only part of which detailed coverage has not yet been provided. For the rest, we are showing how they will be covered of all the additional expenditure in the Annex to the Autumn Note. Mr Omtzigt is right to say that the processing will take place next year in the first supplementary budgets together with the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u164	In addition to this 112 million item, the cover also includes a cash drawer of more than 300 million. Its origin is not clear, nor is it clear on which years this amount is to be charged. Since it has not been included in the budget, I would like to call for this to be submitted a little earlier, so that we have a better idea. As it is already known in the autumn, I propose not to wait six months before it is covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u165	No, I don't want to make a misunderstanding about this: it's covered. In the letter we make clear where that cover comes from. The cashier's also clear. It is quite clear on which post the money is being placed. I assume that Mr Omtzigt is referring to the growth space created in the ODA budget. That's where the cover will take place in the years to come. Then we bring that with a slide to 2016. There can therefore be no misunderstanding about the coverage. Their incorporation into the underlying budget will take place in spring. I really want to stick to that system of processing things in budgets. That is what we will do in the spring. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 4. In the motion for a resolution, on part No. 5 talks about the link between having to pay to Brussels on the one hand and getting some of it back on the other. I have just said that we are working with the Commission on proposals to bring together payments and refunds and to move the moment from the end of the year to the next spring so that it can be processed at once. That's in the spirit of this motion. The motion is therefore in fact superfluous. This is precisely what I am going to do with the Commission. I will keep the Chamber informed. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I do not see any added value in relation to what we have already done. We have already written that to the Chamber, so the question is why the motion is still needed. However, that is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u166	I thank the Minister for this clear judgment. With interest, I will receive the letter on defence expenditure in the coming weeks. I say this so that it is formally recorded as a commitment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u167	I understand, we even have to search pre-war archives, so I don't know how long that's gonna take. I'm joking right now; I think it'll be doable. Then there is the Voordewind amendment. 4 on transferring money from the Dutch Good Growth Fund to the Dutch Relief Fund. I apologize for the English names. The argument for tabling the amendment is mainly procedural. The budget for the DGGF will remain available within the fund and will be taken to next year. So we will be able to see that very well next year. We are also going to look at the fund's cash flow in the spring, as has already been mentioned to the Chamber. At that point in time, the amendment could take account of the wording of the amendment. Technically, the proposal is correct. So it's possible, but I suggest you don't do that now. Nor can I provide the amendment with a substantive assessment, because it is in Mr Ploumen's area. I propose that this debate be held in the spring. If the motion is put to the vote now, I'll advise against her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u168	That concludes the reply by the Minister, for which I would like to thank him most sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u169	Tomorrow we will vote on the motions tabled and the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-3.u170	I see that Mr Pechtold is now at the centre of attention. That has to do with the fact that it's his birthday today. Happy birthday!
