ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. "You have to crush them, exterminate them. These people are only good to die. I give you this order: go!" These words spoke to the President of the Senate in Burundi. That didn't happen ten years ago, it happened last week. It is the language we know of the genocide that took place in neighbouring Rwanda twenty years ago. The President of Burundi threatened his countrymen with more violence if they did not put down their weapons last Sunday. Anyone who is now trying to protect themselves from the continuing violence of the government against its own people has been declared outlawed. According to experts at home and abroad, Burundi is on the brink of collapse. That abyss may turn out to be very deep. The last war lasted more than ten years and cost thousands of people their lives. This year hundreds of government opponents have been murdered and thousands imprisoned. Over 200,000 Burundians are on the run. We must put an end to the violence of the Burundian government against its own people as soon as possible. What role can the Netherlands play in bringing parties in Burundi together and forcing a solution? Can the UN Security Council adopt a new position and can the Netherlands promote it? This summer, the Dutch government took a firm stand against the President's re-election because his third term is unconstitutional. Is the government prepared to publish such a clear condemnation of this President's practices, including in French, and to distribute them locally? Human rights defenders, witnesses to crimes and organisations gathering evidence of government violence deserve protection. Can the Minister mean more to them, for example by increasing financial support to such organisations or by helping them with visas or temporary protection? It doesn't look like this crisis will be over soon. Is the Minister prepared to explain to the emergency agencies that are receiving the refugees additional support for next year so that they can be sure about it? Can they count on this new support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Laar for his questions on the very worrying situation in Burundi. Like Mr Van Laar, the cabinet, Mr Koenders and I are very concerned about the situation. Unfortunately, that's not from today or yesterday. Our commitment and our concerns go back further than they did today or yesterday. We have launched a number of actions aimed at creating an inclusive dialogue between the President and the opposition. After all, where the talking stops, the war begins. We have had talks with the Burundian authorities, including the Foreign Minister. The Minister of Justice has recently visited the Netherlands. In those conversations, we've expressed our concerns. The Netherlands is chairman of the international contact group for Burundi. A number of countries are members. Together with them, we will move forward and prepare a letter to the UN Secretary-General. Yesterday, Mr Koenders and I sent a letter to the Vatican to ask the Pope and his diplomats if they see any possibility of establishing this dialogue. The EU has also invited the President of Burundi to a so-called Article 96 dialogue on the part of the Netherlands. As has already been recalled, the aid has been stopped through the government. The EU cannot do it alone. Mr Van Laar also asked what the UN Security Council is doing. Yesterday we discussed the situation. We have heard that France is preparing a resolution, which I hope will be adopted, which reiterates the importance of the dialogue. The Dutch embassy publishes to good use all the letters I send to the Chamber in French. The last letters of office containing the position expressed by Mr Van Laar are available there. Of course, we have regular contact with Burundi's embassy in the Netherlands. Mr Van Laar has asked whether we can play a role in protecting people who in turn defend human rights. We do everything within our capacity to do so. This means that the Embassy in Burundi is constantly talking to people and talking about their security. A number of people have been able to find refuge in the Netherlands, including through the Shelter City programme. We also support the Africa Human Rights Defenders Project, which aims at the practical protection of people, including Burundi. This has made possible, among other things, resettlement in the region. A number of human rights defenders have fled to Rwanda. Mr Van Laar also asked a question about Rwanda. That country is now picking up about 70,000 people. 200,000 people have fled to the neighbouring countries. The UN Refugee Organization assists those countries. The Netherlands makes unintended contributions. So far, no additional aid has been requested. If that happens, we will, of course, look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	I thank the Minister for her first-term answers. It's a good thing the government's up here and really working on it. I do miss the involvement of East African countries. I hope that we will also be so active as to encourage them to play a role in this. I also ask the Minister to write a new letter on the government's position, because there is an escalation. And when you see an escalation, you must also be able and dare to take a stand. I would therefore ask the Minister to send a new letter on this matter. Our question about emergency aid was not so much about the UN, but about the Dutch emergency agencies, who need clarity about their budget for next year. The Red Cross has received a commitment for this year, but resources will also be needed for next year. The president sent a tweet into the world; yes, Burundi also goes on Twitter. No one living abroad should think themselves superior to those who stayed in Burundi, because most of them left their families here, as the President wrote on Twitter. He immediately threatened his countrymen with that statement, and he added the deed to the word. Last week, the son of a human rights activist who left was murdered. The Burundians are afraid, including those I speak to. Since the threat they post less on social media about what they think of the situation in Burundi and call less for action, because every tweet can have huge consequences. Is the Minister prepared to engage in talks with colleagues from the cabinet with Burundians in the Netherlands, so that they can express their concerns directly to the cabinet? Then the cabinet can also be their mouthpiece, so that they and their families are not in danger. I also assume that no more Burundians are being evicted from the Netherlands. Can the Minister confirm that? Is it also prepared to examine whether the family reunification of Burundians can be treated as a matter of priority, so that the safety of families is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	First of all, it is good to report that the neighbouring countries and the African Union are very active, and not from yesterday on today but for months. So they don't really need encouragement, but they do need our support. That's what we offered. President Museveni of Uganda has offered to organise a dialogue in Kampala with the President, the opposition and everyone who is important to restore peace. We have also offered to provide financial support to this through our embassy, should it come to that. Until now, this has not been addressed, but the African Union has become very active. Observers from the African Union have been deployed. That was 30, and it's gonna be 100 now. There is therefore also maximum pressure from the region on the President of Burundi not only to moderate his tone but, above all, to sit down with his own citizens. We have regular contact with the embassy. Our position is clear. The EU has proposed the launch of the Article 96 dialogue. The President has until the end of November to reply. Perhaps that would be a good time to report the position of the Netherlands in that dialogue to the Chamber and to ensure that the letter with the position of the Dutch government as usual in Burundi appears on the website of the embassy. Of course, I am very willing to talk to Burundians in the Netherlands. We know how to worry. We are also following this closely, but I can imagine that there is a need for a more intensive dialogue in this situation. I come to the Burundians in the Netherlands who should go back to their country. My information is that this year two people have been sent back to Burundi, the last of them in May. There is, of course, a careful individual assessment of whether this can be done. I will pass on the question of family reunification to my colleague Mr Dijkhoff and talk to him about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is good that we are discussing this issue now, because the situation is indeed very worrying. The CDA would like this minister to take further action. Especially if the Article 96 procedure does not appear to produce anything at the end of November, we want it to be effective in imposing sanctions. We discussed this with the Minister just before the summer break. We think it is now time that sanctions were introduced and that the Minister has already promised that, if it is not clear at the end of November, she would argue in the European Union that the EU should proceed with sanctions. If the EU does not, we in the Netherlands should at least do so. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	The EU already imposed targeted sanctions against four Burundians a few months ago, following the pressure of the Netherlands. We have indeed talked about this, as Mrs Mulder says. I wouldn't want to get ahead of myself at the end of November. In particular, I would like to encourage the President to engage in dialogue. If he doesn't want to, we're gonna take further steps. I would prefer to do so at UN or EU level. I would then like to look again at the situation. I assume that we can take steps with the EU, because that is really the most effective thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	I have some hesitation with the Minister, while before the summer holidays it was clear which way it would go with President Nkurunziza in Burundi. When I hear colleague Van Laar say what this man is putting on Twitter, I am really worried. I believe that the EU and the Netherlands should make clear what we stand for and what our values are, and that this gentleman will not get away with it if he does not do this. It seems to me that it is much more robust to indicate which sanctions are hanging over his head. I really hope for a commitment from the Minister, otherwise we will have to request a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	If the President does not want to participate in the invitation to the Article 96 dialogue, it cannot be without consequences, as I said. My only point is that I want to do everything I can to ensure that he does. If that does not work, sanctions will of course follow. I would prefer to do that at EU level, because it is much more effective. I'm gonna focus on that. The last time we thought this was important, we were able to do so. I therefore assume that a call from the Netherlands will be supported by other EU Member States. If that is not the case, then we do have a reason to reconsider what we have to do. I'll be happy to discuss that with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	It is clear that it is a very explosive situation. That is what we have experienced in the neighbouring country. I'd like the Minister to choose. You can say to the Burundian president "you look at it but if you don't stick to your own constitution," but then we'll get back to it. This minister could, of course, communicate with her Limburg social skills much more face to face with a decent president, possibly with fellow donors with the same qualities. They can say: sir, you should not do this; look at 1994 and the end of the 1950s. For me, it's official cover-up and sending letters of neither meat nor fish. I'd like to ask the Minister to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	I fully sympathise with Mr Smaling. In addition to all the letters we send, we have also tried to make our commitment clear through our personal contacts. The president's been shutting down for the last few weeks for everyone and everything. In previous months, we have done exactly what Mr Smaling says here, through the embassy, the foreign and justice ministers and the ambassador. We are ready and ready to engage in dialogue immediately, alongside all other efforts. I would like to assure Mr Smaling that we will certainly use all the ways that can be effective to make the President understand that this is a hopeless path, and that it is unheard of that you are threatening your own citizens and risking the safety of your country and your people. We will also be happy to engage in personal conversations and contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	At the end of the Labour Party's contribution, the monkey comes out again: people from Burundi must all stay here and be able to sing and reunite. Just as we are dealing with the biggest asylum bugsunami we have ever seen, all the people of Burundi must come here because there is a conflict there. That's how we know the PvdA. But that's not what my question is about. Development aid makes Dutch people complicit in genocide. The Ministry of this Minister financed the FRELIMO in Mozambique, MPLA in Angola, the racist ANC in South Africa and also ZANU-PF by Mr Mugabe. They have committed all genocides and killed tens of thousands and tens of thousands and tens of thousands of civilians. The Minister never gave up on that. Does she have any credibility if she is going to tour Africa and tell people what to do? It does not have that credibility, because it is politically responsible for financing at least four genocides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is a responsibility of the Netherlands, of me and of the other members of the cabinet to appeal to the President of Burundi, where, as in Burundi, peace and security are at stake, and where boys and girls, men and women, are threatened by their own president. I'll keep doing that. We are all very concerned about what is going on there. The civil war lasted ten years. It is incomprehensible that the President should insist on a repetition of this. It is clear that now, in the past and in the future, the Netherlands will always speak out when human rights are violated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	Like Mr Van Laar, my group is also concerned about the situation in Burundi. Moreover, I do not believe that there is any conflict along ethnic lines such as ten years ago and that this situation has not yet been achieved. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. I have another question. The Minister says that dialogue is being pursued at EU level. I agree with the Minister that this must be done. Is it not wise, in view of the personal contacts the Minister and other members of the cabinet have had with this President, to send an envoy before the President makes a decision, who once again rubs that well into his ears? The Minister does not have to do this herself, but she can send someone to the President to say that the Netherlands, as a leader of Europe, simply does not want to have this. Cut the crap! Isn't that a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	I shall begin by addressing Mr Teeven's question on the nature of the conflict. It's not an ethnic conflict. The President does not want his opposition at the table to talk to each other about how one together improves the fate of the people in the country, as it should be in a democracy. We have indeed sent an envoy to Burundi before. We are looking at whether this is appropriate and useful, because I very much agree with Mr Teeven that we must do everything we can. If personal contacts help, we are sure to use them. Mr Koenders will be in Valletta for the next few days. There will also be a number of heads of government from the surrounding countries. He will also talk to them about the situation. I say to Mr Teven that we are doing everything in our power to prevent this from escalating further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
