ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u2	I'm not fully informed, but my estimate is that this was the national anthem of Groningen. Maybe it was good to start with that, too. Eight minutes of speaking time have been agreed for each group. In addition, a total of four interruptions per group are allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are talking here today about the consequences of gas extraction for the Groningers. I look back at the last two years in my contribution to this debate, but I am also, of course, looking forward. I will look at the risk analyses, the level of gas extraction, the damage handling and the future prospects for Groningen. On 16 August 2012, the earthquake at Huizinge, with a force of 3.6 on the Richter scale, occurred. As a result of this earthquake, the State surveillance of the Mines, which I will call SodM, has carried out research. This was explained by Minister Kamp in Loppersum at the beginning of 2013. The possibility of greater and heavier earthquakes appeared to increase in such a way that the Minister considered it necessary to investigate further. The SodM indicated that production should be reduced as much as realistic as possible. To our great bewilderment, gas production in 2013 turned out to be huge: almost 54 billion cubic metres. In the debate at the beginning of 2014, the Minister's statement to this effect was that it was a severe winter, that the heaters had to burn and that people had to cook. And we had to live up to our international obligations. The answers to our written questions now show that this would not only have been possible with the winning of the Groninger gas, but that there could have been excellent mixing. The conversion capacity was barely used in 2013 and 2014. During the hearing it became painfully clear that for the Ministry of Economic Affairs the revenue was still the top priority. To what extent does the Minister now regret that choice? What is the conversion capacity the Minister wants to deploy this year? In early 2014, the House of Representatives discussed the results of the many investigations. On the basis of all these investigations, Minister Kamp decided to reduce gas production compared to the particularly high extraction in 2013 to 42.5 billion cubic metres. Optically that was a very nice, framed reduction of the Minister, but that 42.5 billion cuub was of course just the agreed annual average. The Groningers therefore wondered what reduction it was about. The views flowed in. This debate shall be held in the light of those views. On the basis of the risk analysis of State supervision of the Mines, the Minister advised to reduce production by 80%. At the same time, production was increased in other parts of the field. Last year the CDA asked the Minister to follow the SodM advice several times and not to increase production there until it was clear in the other parts of the field. Then we could all see with our healthy farming understanding that reducing production in Loppersum had a direct effect on the number of quakes and on the severity of the quakes in the area. That wasn't just the case there. Also around Hoogezand was visible that the number of tremors and the heaviness of the tremors increased. These proofs must and can no longer be ignored by the coalition in The Hague. According to the CDA, due to these uncertainties, the Minister has only one choice: to reduce gas extraction as much as realistic as possible. The CDA thinks we should look at what's minimally needed instead of what we can win at maximum. The CDA wants the safety of the Groningers to come first. Therefore, the level of gas extraction should be reduced to the lowest possible level from the point of view of security of supply. That level, according to the Minister in response to written questions from the CDA Group, is around 30 billion cubic metres a year. This is also apparent from GasTerra's reply at the hearing. All investigations and hearings in the Lower House clearly show that there is no certainty about the safety risks of gas extraction in Groningen. Then you have to apply that precautionary principle. I call on my colleagues from the groups of the VVD and the PvdA to shoulder their responsibilities. Minister, that's enough. Why does this government consistently opt for a minimal adjustment, while the security risks are not sufficiently identified? Up until a few minutes ago, the cabinet opted for the first half of this year for a maximum number of tubs of 39.4. Around 11.30 a.m., a letter came in that the gas decision will be amended for the first half of this year. The minister says he has sufficient 16.5 billion cub in the first half of 2015. What will happen in the second half of this year, however, if the Minister holds on to that 39.4 billion cube, as has now been formally committed? Then this increase is enormous in the second half of 2015 compared to the first half. The Minister also received questions about this at the press conference. I think it is right that he should explain again in the Chamber exactly how he sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u4	Key questions of this important debate will be: will the gas tap close further and how soon will Groningen be clear? I am less optimistic about the letter to which Mrs Mulder referred. In fact, it says that the Minister initially intended to amend an institution decision, but he is not going to do that anymore. He says it is not necessary, because the NAM says: we do it on our own. So nothing is changed. Did Mrs. Mulder read it that way? I had the impression that Mrs Mulder said: it is now settled, it is being changed. However, the proposed amendment to the assent decision has just been withdrawn with this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you for this question from the D66 Group. The letter just came in. I think it would be a good thing if the Minister could comment on the exact way he sees it. Is that 39.4 standing or not? Otherwise, in the first half of this year it will go back to 16.5 and then it will be necessary to take a step in the second half of the year in order to get to that 39.4. Our request to the cabinet is not to look at what can be won to the maximum, but what needs to be won at least to ensure the security of supply, for which the D66 Group also stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u6	The CDA and I do share the vision of where it should go. However, it seemed important to me, also for the people in the public gallery who were unable to print this letter as quickly as possible, to indicate what is in the letter. In that the Minister says: on 11 February I told the Chamber that I am going to amend the assent decision, but I am not going to do so; I do not have to, because the NAM is doing it on its own. So the 39.4 still stands. I share the questions put to the Minister by Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you again for this clarification. That's right. That letter really just came in. The Minister will undoubtedly tell us more about it later. It is not until the end of this debate that we can be optimistic whether we can be optimistic. There are still no risk analyses for the rest of the field. They won't be here until May. Surely the Minister could rely on the data that SodM has also used for risk analysis for the Loppersumcluster? This data is there for the rest of the field. Then I'm talking about the data from ARUP and the KNMI. If this data was there in 2013, what is the minister waiting for? For example, what are the consequences of the risk analyses for the Delfzijl Chemiepark and the Eemskanaalcluster? The gas won't run away. In the next decades we can still benefit from warm houses, partly thanks to the Groningen gas. Thus, the long-term sustainability of public finances is much less affected. In the meantime, the inhabitants of Groningen have to do with the effects of gas extraction: soil decline and earthquake damage. We talk to a lot of locals. What they tell us, that affects us. In particular, the damage handling of complex harrowing cases is really not going well. The NAM slows down as the complex becomes and communicates about it badly. It is time for the Minister to make a serious effort to reverse the burden of proof. If the Minister really wants to give the region perspective again, then the gas tap will have to close further. In addition, with residents and companies from Groningen, an area-oriented approach will be needed to make the area habitable and create jobs there. The Empire is responsible for a national approach, but there must be room for regional input. The Vereniging Eigen Huis pleads for a test garden. Expand building rules, give residents and businesses the space and especially ask the Groningers themselves. A lot of Groningers have ideas about that. Our advice to the Minister is: get them involved and look seriously at the plans that lie ahead, for example from farmers Kuipers and Westerdijk. For the CDA it is important that safety is paramount, that people can live safely in their homes, as in the rest of the Netherlands. It's really time to regain that trust. In order to do so, we really need to go further down as a precautionary measure, strengthen houses and see people investing in their future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u8	I have here a piece from the Dagblad van het Noord of December 17, two months ago. Mrs Mulder said: we are pleased that the Minister is reducing gas extraction and following the advice of State surveillance of the Mines; the step responds to the call made by the CDA. She was happy with that decision, but she has a different story now, two months later. Can it explain why this change has taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u9	If Mr Bosman had taken the ANP message, he would have seen that I said three things. In particular, it has to do with the third point, namely that maximum or minimum gas extraction. We said at that time that we would like to see what you should at least win. Unfortunately, that third piece is not included in the story in the Dagblad van het Noorden. I've had a lot of reactions to that. I've told a lot of people how I brought it out. It is indeed very unfortunate that it has ended up like this, because it gives a somewhat confusing and diffuse image.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u10	But I understand that Mrs Mulder was satisfied with the Minister's decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u11	We were satisfied with that first step down. Mr Vos, for example, has said this. But that doesn't mean you're there with that. The VVD Group can today show that it agrees with the CDA. We really hope that the VVD Group will want to go further down and of course the PvdA Group will want to go further down. I know by now from the other colleagues that they want to go to the 30 billion cube. We hope they come with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u12	The CDA Group is talking about 30 billion cubs. We have of course often talked about it with each other; it is also a wish from Groningen. The letter from the Minister we received last night shows that the security of supply referred to by Mrs Mulder is not 30 billion cubic metres, but actually 33 billion cubic metres; see page 4 of the letter. How does Mrs. Mulder interpret that? Does she still believe that we should go to the EUR 30 billion or does she say: no, that security of supply is now at EUR 33 billion; we accept that? Apparently it is now 33 billion; in my view it is well supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u13	Perhaps I could give a more detailed answer, Mr President. I think that's really necessary. We heard from the Minister at the beginning of 2014 that it was really necessary to keep the heaters warm and such that enough could still be won in the Loppersum cluster, while the SodM actually advised to go back 100%. Subsequently, the conversion capacity was hardly used. Then it's gonna be a very double story. Looking at that letter last night, it's like 33 billion would be better now. But the answers to the questions I specifically asked at the end of last year indicate that it could be about 30 billion cube. Then I think: what if we have a heavy winter like in 1963, when people were driving cars across the IJsselmeer, is it possible to make the exception to gain a little more gas? It is only in such situations that we can talk about this, but the starting point should be: go back as far as possible with the extraction of gas. On the basis of the Minister's previous answers, I really come to 30 billion cubs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u14	You say that the nitrogen plants are not used, but on page 4 the following scenario is outlined: that means that the nitrogen plants will run at maximum capacity every day throughout the year. I'm paraphrasing. You're gonna end up at the 33 billion. If you actually have a very cold winter with, say, three times an Elfstedentocht in two months, then another 2 billion is needed and you reach that 35 billion. It's in the Minister's letter. Then I still don't understand how Mrs Mulder gets to the 30 billion. I wanted to go to the 30 billion just like her. That is why I asked the Minister these questions, but it appears to me that this security of supply is 33 billion rather than 30 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u15	That depends very much on which reference year you choose. If that's that super-heavy winter where you can drive your car across the IJsselmeer, you might get to the 33 billion. But the CDA says: Try to get back to the security of supply of a normal, average winter. Then you could come up with that. That should be the goal. You shouldn't win the maximum, which has happened every time so far, but you should take a look at what you need at least. That step should be taken by the House of Representatives today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u16	I support the plea for a substantial return. I will come back to that in my own contribution. The difficulty of the CDA's reasoning is as follows. If you want to go back to maximum, why don't you go back to 21 billion? If we have a warm winter and a warm spring, we only need 21 billion. If it's a cold winter, you're gonna have to increase that pressure all of a sudden. Those pressure differences are a problem. Why does Mrs. Mulder choose somewhere in between? 21 billion is one side, 35 billion is the other. I get the feeling that that's a bit of a political choice, that's okay, but it's not technically supported by the existing reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u17	GasTerra has researched this and comes out between 21 billion and 35 billion if you have such a winter in which you can drive your car on the IJsselmeer. Those are extreme winters. If you take that as a starting point, I can imagine you're gonna come up with that 35 billion, but that's not an average winter. We think you should see what you can do to get you to the 30 billion. That was also the case in the hearing. Then we say: go back as much as possible. That is currently on the basis of GasTerra's data and the Minister's previous replies of 30 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u18	I note that the CDA is not prepared to go back to 21 billion on the basis of the precautionary principle. I understand, because we don't either. There's no difference in that respect. But I also understand that the CDA supports the Minister if he can demonstrate that 33 billion is really needed in a winter to prevent the pressure from increasing rapidly, with all kinds of tremors. So the discussion is really about whether the calculations are correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u19	Suppose we could go back to 29 billion, producing as flat as possible, then we can discuss it. But we just want to see how you can go back to maximum, producing flat, so that you are sustainable in the gas field. You're right to declare that. GasTerra's report shows you're going to be 30 billion. If we can go further back in the future, we can certainly talk about this and perhaps we can talk to you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u20	The scabbard about the number of cubs has already started in the first interruption. Can Mrs Mulder say with her hand on her heart that the safety of Groningers is fully secured at 30 billion cubic metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u21	Well, I think you know the answer to that question, which is no. But you have to apply the precautionary principle here. It now stands at 39.4 billion cubs and we believe that a significant step should be taken. That is what we want to achieve today. It would be very nice if Mr Öztürk's group would join us. Maybe he can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u22	I will go into this in detail in my first term. But you finally say that the safety of the Groningen people with your plan is absolutely not guaranteed. So it remains unsafe in Groningen, I understand from your plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u23	What we want is for the gas tap to be turned off as far as possible, because we have seen in the Loppersum cluster that by turning off the gas tap further the number of quakes and the heaviness of them went back. Furthermore, we have seen that, where the gas crane has been opened further, so around Hoogezand and Menterwolde, the number of tremors and its heaviness have increased. If you know that, I think we, as representatives of the people, should close the gas tap as far as possible. That is the point I want to make here today. I sincerely hope that Mr Öztürk will support me in this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, I looked again at the dates. I could hardly imagine it, but it's been more than two and a half years since that heavy quake at Huizinge woke us up. All this time, the minister needed to study hard. That was necessary, because we didn't know much. The result is a large stack of reports with a clear conclusion: gas extraction means bottom drop and bottom drop means earthquakes. After the earthquakes in Huizinge, D66 argued for the preventive closing of the gas crane. But Minister Kamp, on behalf of the VVD, turned the crane open to a record height. Then it is a cold trick to say: this minister is the first minister to turn off the gas tap a little bit more. Yeah, after you open it up pretty much. We're back three years this summer. The Groningers are actually expecting one thing today: clarity about how the government is going to ensure their safety as best it can. And of course, we can't give 100% security, but no one asks that either. But they do want clarity. The decision that the Minister is submitting to us is anything but a clear decision, because what does he really choose? Is the gas tap closing or not? Are we going to get a reduction in gas extraction this year or is the NAM allowed to continue on the same footing? The Minister is not giving any certainty about it. It may be that the gas tap is closing, but it may also be that the gas extraction in the autumn is increasing sharply again. With the gas decision that's now in place, it's all possible. So nothing changes and we haven't made any progress today. The Minister postpones his decision and postpones it. We'll talk again in six months. That is the message given to us today. What are the Groningers doing with this story? Stay in uncertainty for another six months? What can they count on? The Labour Party doesn't make it any simpler either. In the media she says that increasing gas extraction after the summer is unthinkable, but she supports a policy with a gas decision that says that more than 39 billion cubic metres can be pumped. I can't. It's one of two: either it's unthinkable and then you lower the ceiling, or it's not unthinkable, and then you study it and then you look at what you do. If you don't lower gas extraction now, you keep all the possibilities open. That is why I ask the Minister whether he agrees with the Labour Party if we have to believe those statements, which is unthinkable. Is he willing to adjust the ceiling? D66 believes that we should make a clear decision now and that we should not hold off on postponement. Experts say that earthquakes are less likely to occur if less gas is extracted. That's clear. So now, preventively reduce the extraction of gas to the amount that is demonstrably necessary for the security of supply. Do not build margin on margin to boost the level. Is the amount mentioned in the letter from Minister Kamp, around 35 billion cubic metres, really necessary for security of supply? I come back a little bit to the point just mentioned by Mr Mulder. How hard does it have to freeze before we need this amount? What kind of Siberian winter should we have and should we base our long-term policies on such an exceptional case? No. And why are all these margins directly part of the total ceiling that can be filled? They can also be specifically reserved in the event of these circumstances. Why should there be a buffer for the breakdown of technical installations, and why does it also become a structural part of the ceiling? I hope they're not that bad. I think there's been an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mrs Van Veldhoven. I'm gonna freeze your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mrs Van Veldhoven says: as low as possible and not presorting for something that might happen. Does Mrs Van Veldhoven accept that the gas tap should be extra open if it does? After all, you never know. What does she say to Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u27	I think Groningen wants a clear decision. As far as I'm concerned, we are going to win what is demonstrably necessary for security of supply. I'm sure all the people in Groningen understand that we need more gas when we get a Siberian winter. We also have to make sure that we keep some gas in the gas stores, so that on a peak day we don't have to turn on all the taps immediately. So you have to look carefully at the balance between the level of security of supply and the pattern of production that contributes to safety. That's what we need to look at. But if you just keep the ceiling at 39 billion cube as it stands, you don't, and I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u28	I understand from the words of Mrs Van Veldhoven that D66 does not find it a problem to win a lot of gas if there is a severe winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u29	When a heavy winter comes and we have exhausted all other possibilities, the people of Groningen understand that other people, like them, also want to turn on the stove. If we agree to reserve the pumps for that extreme circumstance, I think we can understand that. If we show clearly that we are putting the safety of the Groningers first and if we have done everything else to prevent a shortage, I think we can get extra gas out of the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mrs Van Veldhoven began her speech by saying that immediately after the earthquake at Huizinge, D66 called for the gas tap to be turned off. That's what she said at the Square this morning. I just checked it out. In the debate we had then, a motion was tabled by GroenLinks to take steps to reduce gas production from the Groningen field by 40%. That was in February 2013. That was only supported by the Party for Animals at the time. At that time, no other party in this Chamber wanted to turn off the gas crane a little bit preventively. We checked the other motions in that debate. There was no other motion to reduce that at the time. I am very glad that D66 also said later that the crane should be closed. But if we had all turned off the crane at that time, we would now have had less problems. So perhaps Mrs Van Veldhoven would like to respond to that and explain what she meant with her comment at the beginning, and this morning at the Square.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u31	I'd be happy to. I think that we have indeed been waiting for the report on State surveillance of the mines. It said what was going on and what the advice was. That gave us a factual basis to say that you have to turn off the crane preventively. GroenLinks often has to be motions in that premature; we do not support them. But when there really is a real reason to do so, we also say what we think about it. That is why I made it very clear at the time that we think it is important that we turn off the crane from a preventive point of view, so that you can see what you can do. That's what I'm saying today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u33	I'm Van Tongeren. Van Veldhoven is over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u34	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u35	I am sorry that Mrs Van Veldhoven says this. We hang out a lot. The letter of State surveillance of the Mines dates from 22 January 2013. This motion was tabled in the debate just after the crucial opinion of the state monitoring that the crane should be closed as quickly as possible and as far as possible as realistically. That is why GroenLinks tabled this motion. With the words of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I now hear that it was not premature, that it was precisely after the crucial opinion, and that she may regret that she did not support the request that the crane should be shut down two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u37	It's important to keep us apart. There are still differences of opinion, although we are in fact working together on a regular basis. There must have been something else in the motion why it was not possible for us to support her. I think it is clear that we say: if there is reason, if there is scientific evidence, if there is a concrete plan on the basis of which you can say that it is a wise decision, then we will do so. That's how you know D66 and I'm glad that from now on we can stick together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u38	I share D66's objection that if you do 16.5 billion cubs in the first half of the year and 23 billion cubs in the second half of the year, you suddenly increase that pressure. My problem with Mrs Van Veldhoven's speech is that she is actually doing the same thing. At least she runs the risk of doing the same. If you put the production ceiling too low and unexpectedly get a cold winter, you have to increase the pressure in a very short time. We know that this is bad, because not only a difference in pressure is bad but also when you suddenly have to rebuild it. So how does that relate to Mrs Van Veldhoven's story? I think most people want me to at least, and Mrs van Veldhoven also want a stable extraction throughout the year. Most people don't want short peaks that suddenly shoot up sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u39	I would like to ask Mr Dijkgraaf what level he has heard me refer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u40	That's exactly my question. I do not think it is right to say, on the basis of political considerations, that we should choose 28, 30 or 33 billion cubs. This must be done on the basis of careful analysis, so that we minimise the chance that we suddenly get a peak in that pressure build-up. If Mrs Van Veldhoven agrees with me, then we have a discussion about what that level is and what the Minister can offer to support that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u41	In fact, I think we should be careful to assume here, in the discussion between Mr Dijkgraaf and myself, that it is that peak level which then outweighs the rest of the insecurity. For D66, it is a question of moving towards a extraction pattern that is based as much on ensuring safety in Groningen as possible. Mr Dijkgraaf cannot answer the question as to the exact level of extraction involved, and how much risks of a one-day peak outweigh the structurally higher risks of a higher extraction ceiling. That is why my question is: use the principle that you want to go to the greatest security. So adjust the ceiling and do not keep the possibility open if you already say that we are going to 16.5 billion in the first six months. Then adjust the ceiling now and don't tell me you're keeping the opportunity to go to 39.4 billion. That fundamental step is the step we need to take today. I'm sure we'll be able to talk to each other and all the experts for a very long time about exactly how high that level should be. Bet maximum on the use of conversion capacity. Also bet maximum on the use of storage, for example to catch a peak that takes place on a certain day, without having to turn a crane open in one go. However, we now also have a varying pattern of extraction. In the summer, less is won than in winter. That has apparently never been a reason to adjust the extraction of gas. If there is reason to do so now, I would very much like to look with all the parties here and with the experts at what is the level at which we guarantee safety. That's what I care about, not number x or y.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u43	I would just like to say that that is why I have asked a lot of questions about all the margins that are in it. Further research in the Groningenveld remains desperately needed. Of course that research takes time. That makes sense. But then it is the question of what we do in ignorance. That really is the question we are facing here. What do we do? Do we keep the gas tap open in the meantime or are we going to win at least until we know what can be safe? We choose the latter. In the meantime, of course, we shouldn't sit still, because with less winning we can make the cans smaller on an earthquake, but not yet the effect of it. Only with an earthquake-proof house can you give people real safety, so we have to work hard to strengthen preventively. With less gas extraction, let us buy the time needed to give more people a safe house, a building that can withstand earthquakes, that doesn't get cracks, that doesn't collapse and that doesn't lose chimneys: that makes it safe. The Minister is going to work on this now, and that is good, but I still have a number of questions. In his letter I read that he wants to give 30 houses priority, but in the report that is behind it, I read that about 1,500 houses really have a very low level of security, that is, an opportunity of around 1 in 1,000 that the house collapses. The opinion is clear: rapid action is needed here too. According to the report, the houses should be strengthened in the shortest possible time. I don't read that in the Minister's plan. Is he gonna do that? There are also buildings in which many people come together, such as schools, hospitals, nursing homes and nurseries. They must, of course, have our particular attention. How long have these buildings been strengthened? Does the Minister also help with knowledge of interim measures? For example, if you have a glass roof, do you have to put a cloth underneath it? What can people do in the short term? With a temporarily lower building standard we can quickly make meters and first strengthen the weakest houses. According to the report, however, according to the NPR there can be more than the minister says. There are a number of figures on this, which the Minister also knows. Why doesn't the Minister do that? Fortunately, in his further letter, he states that in the longer term the same standard should apply in Groningen as throughout the Netherlands. When are all these houses gonna meet that standard? He talks about a five-year plan and sees what he can do in five years. I would like a ten-year plan, in which the Minister indicates how we are going to deal with all the problems in those ten years. We also call for special attention to be paid to cultural heritage. Making historical buildings earthquake-proof sometimes means almost the same as breaking down. We have been in such a beautiful building during our work visit. The residents had it all fixed up. Then find creative solutions with the residents there. When strengthening the dikes we know the concept of multi-layer safety. Think about protecting safety in other ways as well. Does the Minister also want to think creatively about other approaches? I'm joining the National Coordinator. A mess of agencies is involved in the extraction of gas in Groningen. The Minister now appoints an overarching national coordinator. We have always said that it is a national problem, so we welcome the national coordinator. I do have a number of questions about that. The distance from the people should not be increased but narrowed with this national coordinator. So is there one phone number later that you can call with a question or a problem? What exactly is the mandate going to be? Are powers of municipalities and provinces transferred? And where is the coordinator going to make the difference? Where can we test his contribution? Does he get his own budget? Is the Center Safe Living underneath it? And the committee's urgent cases? And what will be the relationship to the Dialogue Table? For D66, it is very important that the Ombudsman remains separate, can continue to act as an independent watchdog and can therefore also express his views on complaints relating to the whole breadth of everything related to gas extraction and that he does not have a very specific mandate as at present. I'm rounding up. Groningen is asking for clarity today about less gas extraction and sturdier houses. I call on the Minister, as well as the colleagues here today, to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mrs Van Veldhoven rightly says that today it is mainly a matter of adapting Minister Kamp's gas extraction decision. We need the Labour Party and the VVD for that. Fortunately, the Party for the Animals and D66 can find each other very much in this. Another important element is that Groningers who have been affected want to get rid of the debilitating processes in which they have to lean for long to pay. They must prove that the tremors caused damage. The Animal Party has often pleaded for reversal of the burden of proof. D66 didn't go along with that at the time. Yesterday, however, in the Provincial States of Groningen, a motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously, including by D66. Does that mean for the Lower House of D66 that she is prepared to take a serious look at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u45	I share Mrs Ouwehand's concern about how incriminating it is for people. Not only do they have to walk around their house continuously to see if there are cracks, but they also have to go off all those bodies. That is why a D66 motion has been adopted earlier in order to arrive at a one-stop shop. Let them in the back office find out who's responsible for what, but help people. Of course, the reversal of the burden of proof would certainly help. Of course I am prepared, on the basis of that motion, but at all events, to look at it again, because this issue concerns so many people. There are a number of comments to make, but we certainly have that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u46	That's good to hear. This signal, also from the D66 group in Groningen, can no longer be ignored. A reversal of the burden of proof would be one of the signals from The Hague that we take what is happening there seriously. Then the NAM should show that something is not caused by the tremors, rather than keeping that burden on the plate of the people who had not already asked for their house to be in the cracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u47	It is a very legitimate question that we must seriously judge with each other. So we would be happy to take a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u48	D66 has set up a future fund. Here comes the money that comes from the gas benefits. Is it possible for D66 to discuss putting these gas benefits not into that future fund, but into a "structure fund Groningen"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u49	We have set up this fund so that we do not spend all the money that we are now taking from the ground, even though we do not have that money structuralally. We are putting it into all kinds of things that we now consider important, but also into all kinds of things, because we did not really want to reform. D66 has been one of the parties that has said that we must go to hell and that we must reform if we do not have the money. We must make sure that future generations too, those are also the grandchildren of the people of Groningen, still need that money that we are getting out of the ground. That is why we have indeed said that there should be a future fund, as the Norwegians do. You do not use the principal amount, but only the interest rate, for example to further stimulate research and innovation. This will enable you to find alternatives to gas again. There wasn't a lot of money for that right now, but we did get the start. The agreement has indeed been made that any windfall gains can flow into that fund. For now, we're not talking about windfalls, so let's not make each other happy with a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u50	That is possible, but Mrs Van Veldhoven would like to anticipate a number of things. She doesn't want that on this, but it does seem useful to me to know. I think it's a nice deal, also for Groningen: if there is a windfall in the natural gas benefits, let's label it towards Groningen. I'd like to hear what D66 thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u51	I hear Mr Bosman in particular leave all kinds of balloons here. If he really wants to spend extra money on this, we can, of course, arrange it in the forthcoming discussions on the budget. For that we do not have to wait for any windfalls. I would like to look forward to a proposal from the VVD. Then we'll discuss it with each other. However, I think it is a balloon and he will not be able to bring it into the negotiations in concrete terms. However, we like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u52	So you're not doing it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u53	We're willing to talk about anything. I'd like to see a proposal from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u54	I should like to give the floor to Mr Öztürk for an interruption. I would point out to Members that the debate is only on the microphone. People in Groningen who want to follow this debate cannot hear what Mr Bosman and Mrs Van Veldhoven are exchanging if they do not do so via the microphone. They will not hear half of the discussion. It's really important that we only talk through the microphone. Mr Öztürk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u55	D66 wants clarity, and we all want clarity, including the Groningers. Eventually, she wants less gas and wants a plan for ten years. Can Mrs. Van Veldhoven offer the Groningers complete safety with her plan with her hand on her heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u56	Can Mr Öztürk mention a plan with which he can offer complete safety with his hand on his heart? I think this is a rhetorical question. People from Groningen do not expect them to be offered 100% safety, because that is unrealistic. They do expect us to do what we can. What we can do today is to create clarity by reducing that gas ceiling to the level necessary for security of supply rather than just about 40 billion. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u57	It wasn't a rhetorical question. The government must create security. That is one of her core tasks. There are other plans. I am unfortunately the last speaker today, but I will try to indicate how we want to offer full security. I would like Mrs Van Veldhoven to take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u58	I look forward to seeing Mr Öztürk's plan to guarantee 100% safety at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, I was allowed to visit people's homes in Groningen. People who have had earthquakes and still have earthquakes to this day. People living in beautiful farms. Whole villages are also involved. I've been to the village of Rottum. People who put their souls and salvation into maintaining their home, their future, and their vitality. People who have lived in Groningen for generations and people who have just moved in because it is a beautiful area. People who really feel at home there. They all had the same question and the same concern: how safe can I live here, not only now but also in the future? That concern applies not only to their homes, but also to their surroundings. If Loppersum has to close two primary schools because of safety, because the kids can't be safe there, you're hitting it hard. As the father of three children, that hits me very hard. These people, these Groningers, do not ask for money or compensation, they ask for security. They ask: can I stay here, where my heart lies, and can I do so safely? I think that's the worst thing that can happen to you, that you live in a place where you don't feel safe, where the environment doesn't feel safe and you wonder if you're safe. I'm not a Groninger. I'm from Zeeland. In my neighborhood, I've heard the stories. On the night of January 31st, 1953, the combination of southwest storm and spring flood caused the largest natural disaster since 1570. Large parts of Zeeland, the South Holland Islands and West Brabant were underwater and the consequences were terrible. To this day, there are Zeeuws who have experienced the storm flood and still have the feeling of insecurity, especially when the weather storms. People will sleep badly or not at all and the images of that night will come back. This happens after a natural disaster of over 60 years ago. What did the Zeeuws want then? Exactly the same as the Groningers now: no money, no compensation, but security and a perspective on safe living. The solutions for safe living were not there directly. Ten months later the last power hole closed and on 4 October 1986 the Oosterscheld barrier was closed by then Queen Beatrix. That was 33 years after the disaster. The future perspective is now important for Groningen. We're not gonna wait on that. The first steps have already been taken by the cabinet. Reductions on the advice of State supervision of the Mines are being continued and now the Minister and the Cabinet are taking another step in reducing the extraction of gas further to the level of security of supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u60	I hear an incredibly compassionate story from the VVD. My compliments on that. For the time being, however, the VVD is the only party that does not want to turn off the gas crane and wants to stick to that 39.4 billion cub. Is it true what I read on the front page of De Volkskrant this morning, namely that the VVD demanded that savings be made if after 1 July the gas tap cannot be opened further, and that the VVD threatened the Labour Party with additional cuts of EUR 1.7 billion if the gas tap cannot be fully opened after 1 July? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u61	First of all, you shouldn't always believe what's in the paper. I have noticed this in the meantime in this debate. There's a lot in newspapers that you can ask the question of after reading: is this true? In addition, I think it was the cabinet that was involved; I read it very quickly. There was talk of "circles around the cabinet." That kind of woolly terms is then used. I have no idea, but I'm not talking about money, because it's the solution. I have said before, also on the radio: money follows the solution. We are talking here about the solution, about the future of Groningen, about the viability of Groningen and about the safety of Groningen. If Mrs Klever wants to take me on board here, I can, but I will do so on the basis of a careful position. Let me stress once again that if Mrs Klever uses strong texts here and says that 30 billion cuub is safe, then I say that she cannot guarantee this. There's no evidence of that. In fact, I don't take responsibility for it if you can't guarantee the future and that crane has to be fully open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mrs Klever does not guarantee that 30 billion is safe at all, but Mrs Klever notes that 39 billion is less safe than 30 billion! The VVD holds on to that 39 billion around the treasury. At the end of last year, the cabinet whistling transferred EUR 1 billion to the EU, but there is no money for Groningen. Where was the VVD when the finance minister transferred that money to Brussels? Where was the VVD when she knew that in Groningen the gas tap had to be closed? The VVD didn't give home. Money to the EU and no money to Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u63	Maybe the math test is gonna help, but 1.2 billion to Groningen isn't "no money." So I think we should also look at it in perspective, also given the developments and the amount of money that goes to Groningen. By the way, it is not the amount of money that is involved; it is what the solution becomes. If it means it takes money and it takes more money, then we're gonna take care of it. Everyone knows that. Then Mrs. Klever shouldn't pretend that's not true, because that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u64	I have heard the VVD dedicate many words to the element of security. I am truly pleased that the VVD wants to put security first. This attitude of the VVD cannot be reconciled with the extraction ceiling of 39.4 billion cubic metres which is still on the table. Can I count on the support of the VVD to remove that extraction ceiling from the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u65	That extraction ceiling is based on a different way of thinking about gas extraction. That's based on stacks of investigations that are there. With the knowledge of that time, the cabinet made that decision. At the moment, there is another perspective, as the Minister has also pointed out, and that concerns the question: how are we going to look at gas extraction? That means a completely different way of thinking. From the precautionary principle, the 35 billion has been chosen. An excellent calculation has been made for this. I also think it wise to take 16.5 billion cube for the first half of the year as a precautionary measure. I think that is an excellent cut, also heard my colleagues from the VVD Groningen. What matters is that you can't guarantee security until you know what's going on. I have just heard the Commissioner from the King of Groningen, who said: do not make it a political game. I just heard Mrs Van Veldhoven say that you are reaching a decision on the basis of good information and scientific information. If that information isn't there, you have to be very careful. Again, I follow the reduction of gas, but what I absolutely do not want to take responsibility for is that that gas crane suddenly has to open up to very much and very high. I don't want to. I therefore think it wise that you take the middle between a flexible and a flat extraction and therefore do not pre-sort one or the other. It is also important that there be a very good report, of which we as a VVD ask for the inclusion of viability, i.e. a kind of social cost-benefit analysis. And then, on the basis of all that, come to a good decision. Those are things that come together. I might say it a little harsh, but now to shout gratuitously that 30 billion is the solution is not my choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u66	I listened very carefully to the VVD. Is it true that for the VVD the 39.4 billion is now off the table? I heard Mr Bosman speak of 35 billion. If that is the case, then why should the maximum necessary for security of supply become the new standard and can we not sit on the 30 billion as a new standard because we are sure that the lower we sit down, the more heavier tremors we can prevent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u67	No, because the problem isn't just lowering it. The problem is also in the question of what you do if there is a cold winter or if there is a technical problem. What certainty does the Christian Union give to all those inhabitants of Groningen that if panic breaks out and gas is needed for security of supply, then we should not take that flexibility out of the Groningen gas field? Because I understand that the place where you need to be to get gas quickly is Loppersum. If you don't want something, it's fast-paced in Loppersum. This Minister has made it quite clear that I am putting a cap on it. I think that is very sensible, but then you must continue to deal with it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u68	In view of the events of the last few weeks, I had expected a short, modest story from the VVD, after which Mr Bosman would have sat in his chair again with the tail between his legs, but that did not happen. I now hear him talking about schools that are about to collapse, about him being a father of three children and about Zeeland et cetera. Is Mr Bosman heading all the way or is it still a party that simply wants to win almost 40 billion cubs and which is the only one in this room for shale gas drilling? What's the deal? Am I listening to Mr Bosman in private or am I listening to the Lower House Group of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u69	I'll repeat it again. The King's Commissioner, Max van den Berg, had a very clear message: do not make this a political game. It's okay, but care and responsibility belong to the VVD. I'm not running from this. I'm not leaving here with the tail between the legs. I stand for this story, because I believe in this story. I do not think we should treat the matter carelessly. There's gonna be state elections soon. That's interesting for everyone who's standing here, but we shouldn't. What matters is that you can keep the decision you're making now in the future. That means you can't just turn that gas tap. We do not know what is happening, we do not know what the effects are. Anyone who wants to say that now, I think they're brave, because I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u70	If he is honest, then Mr Bosman must acknowledge that care at the VVD is much more focused on the gap in the state budget than on what is being won out of Groningen. If that is not the case, he must now say here that with us he will find 30 billion cuub the maximum for 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u71	Here the SP of gas extraction makes a financial story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u72	There are laughs in the public gallery and I am going to say something to the people there. You are very welcome and I understand that you feel a lot of emotions, but I must ask you to refrain from expressing consent or disapproval. If you feel like you're laughing, I'm asking you not to. The debate is taking place in the Chamber and everyone must have the freedom to say the things he wants to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr Smaling is linking it to the money and I am not linking it to the money, but to the solution. We are talking about the solution here. That's the point. Clearly, there are political differences as to how to find a solution. We talk about that, but the money follows the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u74	I am stunned by Mr Bosman's introduction to this speech. First, he pretends that a natural disaster that happened to the Zeeuwen is the same as the earthquake damage in Groningen. That's not a natural disaster, it's an industrial accident on a massive scale. In 2008, 2009 the VVD ran away. Then there were reports from KNMI and TNO in which a clear link was established between earthquakes and gas extraction. The VVD ran away in 2013 when we tabled a motion to take steps towards gas reduction. That motion was not supported by the VVD. During the whole year 2014, the VVD ran away. The party was nowhere to be found. And in 2015 the VVD is again not here to say: we need to intervene. No, I hear Mr Bosman saying that more research is needed, that we do not understand exactly what the situation is, that a flat extraction might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u75	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u76	My question is: when will the VVD say that Zeeuwen should be as safe in Zeeland as Groningers in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u77	Of course the disaster in Zeeland was of a different order and of course the care in Groningen is great. That is why we must work on it and have a responsibility for it. But the ease with which colleagues sometimes say that we choose wrongly without providing any justification... I do not see any reports or evidence for that. They're choices. Behind that 30 billion is a comma. If we don't name that comma, we're gonna cut people short. That comma means that it can only be done if the technical possibilities are full, if there is no cold winter. All these things are part of that. I'm not going to take it on board to say tough here that I'm going to go to 30 billion to conclude in winter that the crane needs to be opened further. I don't want to. I don't think that's right. I'm not running away, but I'm weighing up the concerns I have, because I think that Groningen has a right to safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u78	Since the year 2000, gas extraction in the Netherlands has increased year in, year out. The VVD never resisted that. The VVD never asked questions about that, because she was fine with the money going into the treasury. At the moment, the problems are high. The VVD keeps looking away, has not supported initiatives from other parties and has always ignored scientific advice. To cling to the straw that there will be a cold winter as in 1985, I find an incredibly weak offer. I would like to ask Mr Bosman once again to join the opposition parties and say that this year we must go to the absolutely lowest possible level to ensure that security increases. Mr Bosman is right to say that we are too late to prevent possible major earthquakes. However, the VVD is partly responsible for this. Is Mr Bosman prepared to take a step, at least to make it a little safer for the people of Groningen and to clarify?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u79	It is easy to point the finger, and that is allowed, because we all bear that responsibility. We were all present. This minister said he's going for security. He's taking a different perspective. He's not gonna take the maximum that's safe, but he's gonna go for security of supply, and he's gonna link it to security. That's a little "thinking," because how do we deal with that now? How much do you need? There's still questions for me, too. Does this mean, for example, that I have to make a decision every year and assess how cold it is going to be? This relates to security of supply. How do I deal with that? Those are questions the Minister is going to find out. I hope we will all find out on 1 July, because it all has an effect on each other. We can say very bravely that we need to make a decision now, but I think that is a very bad thing. That's pre-sorting, especially if it's just within reach of the outcome. I wouldn't like that. Mrs. Van Tongeren shakes "no." So she already knows. She could be, because she's a geologist or a seismologist and she knows all about it. I am not, and like Mrs Van Veldhoven, I think it is important that we base ourselves on scientific and factual information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u80	Once again, I am asking for the debate to be conducted only through the microphone. There are a lot of people who follow it remotely and they can only hear those things that have been said in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u81	First of all, let me get something straight. It was just said that 1.2 billion is not nothing towards Groningen. Of this 1.2 billion, however, 800 million is a cigar from its own box, which the NAM must pay for the damage caused to the houses by the earthquakes. That is also something we hear a lot here, but what is not right. With the gift towards Groningen it's all a bit not so bad, unfortunately. Am I hearing the VVD say she wants to go back to 35 billion cubs? My colleague from the Christian Union also asked, but I did not hear the answer very clearly. Or is the VVD willing to go further down and perhaps reach 33 or is it holding on to 39.4 billion cube for this year? I'm trying to figure out where the VVD is right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u82	These aren't presents for Groningen. I think it's really inappropriate; we really shouldn't talk about that. Groningen doesn't get compensation and presents. This is about damage and something the Groningen are entitled to. I would like to re-appoint that care. They're just entitled to that. They have a right to their living capacity, their living environment and the home in which they live. They're just entitled to that. Once again, money follows the solution. I'm not gonna start a number discussion here, because security is paramount. Anyone can ask me to name a number, of course, but that's random. I'm not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u83	At the end of the day, we will decide on the Minister's decision and there will be a figure of 39.4 billion. We decide whether that remains the decision. We would like to know from the VVD whether it will continue to agree, even if it may go back to 16.5 billion in the first half of the year. Where's the VVD? Otherwise, in the second half of the year you will have to gain a huge amount to get back to the level of 39.4 billion cubs. That is exactly what Mr Bosman said earlier in his speech that he did not want to have. I really want to be clear about this from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u84	Now I am accused of looking forward; I should not. The Minister has taken a decision for the first half of the year and that is what this is about. There is clarity: 16.5 billion cube. We're going to look at gas in a different way, and we all have to be very honest about that. There's another way we're gonna look at how we're gonna win that gas. This means that we are also going to look at the risks and the possible consequences in a different way. Those are the things that come together. I think that 16.5 billion cub is a very sensible decision. The fact that there will be further reports and investigations on 1 July, and that we will take another decision on this, I think, is also very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u85	I think people are really tired of not getting clear answers. I would like to point out to Mr Bosma and the VVD Group that you should not say that safety is paramount if you do not mean it. People are right to get really angry about that. "Safety first" means that you do not win gas and look from the safety point of view at what might still be possible. What the VVD does is continue the gas extraction and try to reason back. We must then prove the unacceptable risks involved in the extraction of gas. If a survey is carried out and if we do not amend Mr Kamp's gas extraction decision today, Mr Bosman and his group will take on a heavy responsibility. I'm gonna give that to you anyway. Government parties consult with the cabinet and I would like to know whether the VVD Group has considered in that consultation the question of which liability issues will be placed on the sign of the State and the sign of the House of Representatives. Has there been any legal advice on this? I am asking this because I cannot imagine that the VVD Group is serious about the fact that safety is at the forefront of this plan and its implementation. In my opinion, the VVD Group has no idea of the responsibility it is getting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u86	I feel and have that responsibility. I take that responsibility, and that's why I'm standing here and telling you the story I'm telling. I believe in that story, because I think we shouldn't just make decisions. My group believes that we should not get ahead of these issues too quickly. If there's a parliamentary survey, I'll be there. Then I'm going to explain why I made the decisions I made and why I stand for the story of the VVD. I sincerely believe that we do justice to safety when we are careful and careful. I sincerely believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u87	It would help if the VVD now made clear exactly what its decision meant. I would warn the VVD once again: if we do not change it today, it is not inconceivable that a parliamentary inquiry should be launched. We already know what warnings have been ignored. There's gonna be a report from the Security Research Council next week. I'd deal with it more seriously, because it's really not nothing. We cannot do it to the Groningen people to make a misdecision here and then conclude in two years' time in a parliamentary survey that we have ignored all warnings. I would not like to do that to the VVD, Mr Bosma and the Minister. Don't let it get to you! Do now what you say you value, namely safety first, and do everything in your power to ensure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u88	We're gonna end up in a bit of a what-as discussion. What if I'm right? What if that cold winter comes after all and that gas tap still has to open? What if things do happen anyway? I don't want to take care of that. I'm not sure. I'm very careful about that. I am very reluctant to do so, and I try to do so with all due care. I'm not going ice cream in one night. I don't just make it up, and I don't think "pull it all together" either. I, too, look at the scientific reports. I, too, listen to people in the hearing and in the round tables. I listen to everyone and I weigh everything. And what comes first with me is safety and vitality. And again, money follows the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr Bosman says a lot. I am standing here as the second last of a bunch of colleagues who only have one question for the VVD, and we are not getting an answer to that question: is lowering the 39.4 billion cub today an option for the VVD? Because whether it's 29 or 30 or 33 or with all the margins maybe 35 billion cuub, 39 billion cuub it's not. That is not necessary for the security of supply. I heard Mr Bosman say in a nutshell: that is why we are in agreement with 35 billion cubs. I would like to put that to the Minister in a motion today. Reduce the gas decision to 35 billion cubic metres and do not want more in the second half of the year than in the first half. Let's use that time to study. Does the VVD say yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u90	No, but I will come back to the words of Mrs Van Veldhoven. She also says that you don't just make a decision like that. You need scientific information about all kinds of things that come with it. The decision of 39.4 billion cuub was based on the knowledge and way of winning at the time. That's been given serious thought. We are now going to look at how we are going to generate gas and guarantee security of supply. We are going to think carefully about that. In the meantime, this minister makes a decision and says, "You know what? I count to 35 billion cuub, I count back and in the first half of the year 16.5 billion cuub." I think that's very sensible. It is essential as part of everything we find for the safety of Groningen. Not only the gas down, but also accompanying policy, focusing on central direction and strengthening and strengthening houses. Those are the things that come together. We do not yet have the actual information to anticipate that and to put it hard. Again, I'm linking it to safety, and that's essential. If there is a clear safety story on 1 July, I will link the delivery to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u91	We must therefore note that Mr Bosman's intervention was not true; he is not prepared to do anything. He says there's no knowledge, but I have here a folder full of reports that this minister has put on the table. We have received additional letters stating that GasTerra has calculated that for security of supply, linked to security, you really do not have to go beyond 35 billion cuubs. A lot of parties here have also calculated it: less is also enough. This is difficult to assess, because we consider security of supply important, but it does not have to be 39 billion cubic metres. The simple question now is: are you willing to do anything at all? Then today you go to 35 billion cubs and then your whole story is a political game you have just accused colleagues of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u92	That's really not true. Again, we are in a number debate here, and I think that is inappropriate. The 35 billion cuub is the dividing line between flexible winning and flat winning. I think that Minister Kamp's 35 billion cub is a good idea to sort ahead and move in a very tight direction, but it is linked to another way of winning and another way of looking at how we deal with this. I find it inappropriate to say "just decide" now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u93	I'm trying to understand the story. I'm following it a long way. I think it is a good story in the sense that the VVD also assumes security of supply on the one hand and security on the other. The essence of the discussion is: what conclusion does that lead to? I hear Mr Bosman say that we do not really have enough information to determine what it should be for the second half of the year. I'm a little surprised. I do not think we have enough information on a number of points, for example on flexible extraction, but I do not see anywhere in the reports the number of the 39.4 billion cubic metres. If you're gonna be safe, you're gonna want as little as possible. If you reason from security of supply, you want a maximum of 35 billion cube. I really do not understand how this reasoning can lead to the conclusion that that 39.4 billion cuub remains valid for the time being, except as a financial objective. We all think that is important in itself, but I can hear everyone say that this is not a priority in this dossier, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u94	That 39.4 billion cuub was created on the basis of the information provided by the SodM. It has been considered and with regard to that kind of extraction that is the safe margin, that stands. That is also at the heart of flat extraction, where we are talking about a margin of 35 billion cube to 42 billion cube, but that is flat extraction. There is no certainty how to deal with flat extraction. Mr Dijkgraaf talks about flat extraction, but that is the bracket you are talking about: 35 billion cuub to 42 billion cuub. We are now at the bottom of the flat extraction, even a little lower. We are now a long way towards flexible extraction, and I am, frankly, a little concerned about that. The Minister's reply gave me some confidence in that. The moment you're at the bottom of the flat extraction and still want to do that flat extraction, you don't have to anticipate it. Then you shouldn't presort. I think it is essential that we, as a Chamber, should not preside over a solution which you should have said afterwards that it should have been otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u95	No one expects it, but if on 1 July it turned out that it should not be 35 billion cube, but 37.5 billion cube because of security, we could still reverse it. Presorting doesn't mean pressing the discussion on one or the other. It is about what is the best available decision with the knowledge that we now have. All reports show that with 35 billion cuub you can meet the security of supply, that you do not need 39 billion cuub and that the lower the level of extraction, the safer the situation in Groningen is. If you go to that 39 billion cub in the second half, you actually win 23 billion cub, so you get to the 46 billion cub level. Then you build up that pressure massively. That's never supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u96	In this very careful discussion, this is all being discussed. That means you decide to turn the extraction back for the first six months to 16.5 billion cube, trying to get all the information together for the second half. I just want to know where we come from on the basis of the safest solution. It's my lead. I have a few more questions about that. In fact, the Minister writes in his letter that there are also some questions about it. I therefore believe that we should be careful not to pre-sort, that we should not move in a direction which we say afterwards that we should not have done. In the context in which we are now sitting, I think we are taking the right steps to reach the right decisions on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u97	You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u98	With the choice of 16.5 billion cubic metres for the first half of the year, at least one step has been taken in reducing gas extraction and hopefully a first step towards reducing earthquakes. By applying the cut in the mining year, you have an even better picture of what is going on in that year. On 1 July we expect a new report from the SodM. Can the Minister include more aspects than just gas extraction and security? I would like to see the social effects included. And how is the viability of the environment included in that report? I was thinking of a kind of social cost-benefit analysis, but I'd like to hear what the Minister thinks about this. During my talks in Groningen it became clear to me that confidence in the directors, the NAM and the government is low. I understand. If you get the idea that you're not being heard and that nothing's going to be done with your worries and damage, you're gonna quit. I am therefore pleased that the Minister is coming up with a remote central direction. I would almost call that a delta commissioner. That creates confidence, because I know what Zeeland has come out of. The same should apply to Groningen now. In addition to further reducing gas extraction, which has already been picked up by the minister, there is a need to go through the question of viability. Funds have also been made available for this purpose, but they must be used. Houses need to be reinforced, refurbished and made earthquake-proof. However, Groningen should not turn into a bunker landscape. Is there enough room for innovation and new ideas? Is there enough money available for this? I saw an idea for a rubber dam wall in the ground around the village of Rottum that can counteract the wave movement in the ground. What's going to be done with that? I understood that strengthening should take place mainly with large steel sections. Can't this be done with composite material, both on the wall and in the construction? What innovation does the Minister see as promising? Is there any connection with research institutes and universities to deal with this problem? Especially for the many monumental farms, houses and bonds, customization is essential and the Monumentenwet is sometimes pinching. Does the Minister see that, too? What space do the inhabitants of monuments like this get to improve these buildings in all due care? Both Mayor Den Oudsten of Groningen and his alderman Joost van Cologne have told me the importance of the city of Groningen, the economic engine of the North Netherlands. This town's in its own right, and it's not holding up its hand. All wishes hospital, bypass and new construction... has the city included in its budget. I am therefore pleased that there is an agreement with administrative Groningen to cover the additional costs of construction and adaptation. It is good to hear that there is an administrative agreement with the province and the affected municipalities. Only if everyone goes the same way can we really make a difference. That difference is the perspective we want to go to together with Groningen: a province where it is good and safe to live, where people want to work, go to school and want to enjoy the surroundings. Everyone will have to cooperate, not just the Groningers, because the Groningers have never left the Netherlands in the cold. Now is the time for the Netherlands not to leave the Groningers in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u99	The VVD has also been in Groningen to hear about the damage handling. Does the VVD consider that in dealing with the damage caused by gas extraction, an integral consideration should be given to soil decline, the effects of water levels and earthquakes? Should you tackle them at the same time as strengthening the most risky homes? How's the VVD in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u100	Those effects are part of each other. There is no descent of soil that occurs spontaneously. So I think it's part of each other. Then you're gonna have to deal with it like that and fill it out and get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u101	Last Monday it was said that we are looking again at the contour map. Who's out there and who's in there? In recent years with a lot of damage, we've seen that sometimes people just fall out. The dividing line then runs in such a way that the house opposite it falls inside. How's the VVD looking at that? Should all damage caused by natural gas extraction be compensated by the NAM, regardless of whether this damage is caused by soil degradation, the combination with water levels or earthquakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u102	I think it is important that this goes in consultation with administrative Groningen. There are talks going on and there they have reached agreement to get out as best they can. So there is a responsibility there too. Local government should be given every opportunity to set up its own environment and look where things are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u103	I'll come back to the landmarks. Mr Bosman pointed out that the Monument Law has been a bitch when it comes to strengthening housing. The Monument Act also prohibits damage and destruction of monuments. We now see that many monuments, especially churches, are damaged by the quakes. Will the VVD Group respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u104	That is why we are now working on money and also on reducing gas extraction. We want to ensure that damage is reduced, prevented and repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u105	Now there are really monumental churches being damaged. They are medieval churches, sometimes they are almost a thousand years old. It is very difficult, if not impossible, to strengthen those churches without violating the monumental value. Just these churches and other monuments, such as the men's farms, are defining for the area. They determine the identity of the area. They're built with clay from the area. I really want to appeal to the VVD Group. Because if we know that the recovery is so complicated, shouldn't we respect the Monument Law at this point and, in order to prevent further damage, really turn the gas tap back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u106	It's about safety in general. If you say it's about the Monument Law, it's not quite... the reduction of gas extraction is already on the agenda. I really don't think it should all be with thick steel profiles. I'm really looking for innovation. This is also an opportunity for Groningen. It offers an opportunity to look at what kind of industry might still be there; an industry that is future-proof and that deals with all the things that are going on in Groningen. I mentioned composite. I know people who work in composite production. You can do a lot of beautiful things with that. You don't need the thick steel profiles of 30 centimeters at all. Those things are all part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u107	However, I would like a clear answer to my question, especially now that I have been invited to it by the self-confident attitude of Mr Bosman who said: if there is a parliamentary inquiry, I am standing there. I asked whether consultations have taken place between the VVD Group and the rulers. It is very common for government parties to do so to rulers. I'm assuming, but I'd still like to get an answer to this. If the answer is yes, then my question is whether the questions on the precautionary principle have also been raised, and what risk do we run of being blamed for our death, given the knowledge that is now available?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u108	As a spokesperson, I have no idea. I'm not involved in that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u109	I can tell Mr Bosman that it will not be possible to get away from a parliamentary inquiry. I really wish I could force an answer by now, because I really want to know. This will be one of the key points in the debate, especially if we do not amend the gas decision. This is hanging over the market. Everyone feels it. Again, I call on the VVD to be honest about that so that we can check how hard the claim is that safety is paramount. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u110	The suggestion is made that I wouldn't be honest. I'm really honest about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u111	Despite all the measures proposed by the VVD, there are people who feel unsafe in the shrinking areas, in the areas where tremors occur. Is the VVD prepared to provide people who want to leave those areas to move to a safer area, a generous removal allowance and ample support to live safely in other areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u112	My commitment and the commitment of the VVD will always focus on the viability of Groningen. I'll bet on that. I'm not ready to say, like some other party, "Get those people out of Groningen." I think they should live there, have the right to live there and be able to live in safety. That's what we're betting on. That is why we are now working on the gas decision and the accompanying policy. In this way, we ensure that people can stay there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u113	That's not an answer to my question. I am talking about the people who, despite all the measures proposed by the VVD, say that they find it unsafe in the areas where they live and want to move voluntarily to another safer area in Groningen. Are you willing to support these people financially and give them a say in municipalities and provinces, so that they can go to other areas where it is safer? How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u114	We can do that already, and we are already doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u115	Mr. Chairman. A lot of Groningers feel like they're cheating. Fucked by the NAM who only gives a few cracks close to real, big damage often not at home. Falsified by this cabinet, which clearly gives priority to the treasury, in 2013 the gas tap will be opened to the maximum and this year it will hold on to the 39.4 billion cub. Nor does the Minister's last decision give any certainty, but only creates uncertainty. The crane temporarily closes for the elections, but for the period after that the Minister keeps all options open. There is no guarantee that the 39.4 billion cube will not be won in the second half of this year. That's not how you treat people. People are entitled to security, not only until the state elections, but especially after that. After the previous spokesperson of the VVD accidentally gave us a glimpse into the strategy of the VVD paps and pumps, we read this morning in the newspaper the confirmation that the VVD money is more than security. As far as PVV is concerned, the reverse applies and we now turn off the gas crane to a maximum of 30 billion cubic metres. We've been two years and we've been investigating a bunch of things since the State surveillance of the Mines called, but what have we gotten? The recovery of particularly large and complex damage is hardly possible. The Vereniging Eigen Huis and the Groninger Bottom Movement have collected whole books full of stories from people who have been sent from the cabinet to the wall for two years but have not moved any further. Why does it have to take so long? Within a few weeks, the cabinet decides to transfer an extra €1 billion to the EU, but the compensation for the victims in Groningen is endlessly delayed. What will the National Coordinator actually improve for them? Is he going to be some kind of moving judge who goes to the people and has perseverance? Or is it going to be a bureaucratic moloch that has to take welfare committees and mayors into account? There you are, trapped in your own damaged, unsaleable house, waiting for the big blow that might come. For many people, this is a completely hopeless situation that goes down psychologically and financially, especially now it is clear that preventive strengthening will take decades and there is no guarantee that your home will be exempt from earthquake damage after strengthening. People must leave their homes for months before preventive reinforcement and then return after a new earthquake again in a month-long process of repairing damage. This situation is unacceptable as far as PVV is concerned. We therefore believe that a buy-out scheme should at least be proposed to these people. The Minister cannot keep the Groningen prisoners in a permanent building site. In previous debates, the Minister was opposed in principle to a buy-out scheme, but now he has indicated that he is going to investigate it. We welcome this change, but we do wonder what exactly he wants to investigate. Such a system has been in place for a long time and is indeed an established practice for Moerdijk and for people living under high-voltage towers. As far as PVV is concerned, the buy-out scheme is introduced immediately. Can the Minister undertake to do this? Then I come to the depreciation scheme for sold houses, not to be confused with the buy-out scheme for unsold houses. The fall in value is not a success. I am pleased that it is now being adapted so that people for sale already have clarity about the expected compensation. By when can people make use of it? I come to the reversal of the burden of proof. The PVV does not consider this to be the duped, but the NAM must demonstrate that any damage would not be caused by gas extraction. Yesterday, a motion by the PVV on this matter was unanimously adopted in the States of Groningen. Can the Minister indicate when and how he's gonna handle this? I also refer to the amendment of the Animal Party to the Mining Act. Then the gas tap. We can keep investigating until we drop, but everything points to less gas extraction causing fewer tremors. However, the Minister wants to do more research on this. "Daddy and meanwhile continue pumping" seems to be the underlying idea. If you do not know enough about the risks and want to do further research on them, you have to turn off the crane as a precaution. The Minister has previously indicated that 30 billion cuub is the minimum to meet the security of supply. Until research has been done on how to safely extract the gas, it is 30 billion cubic metres per year as far as the PVV is concerned. Reduced gas extraction will result in an additional budget deficit, but that is still a slap compared to the EUR 18 billion we lent to Greece. Instead of spending billions of euros on Greece, the PVV believes that we should do something about Groningen. Besides, money must never go above security. The director of State surveillance of the Mines was clear: no, I cannot guarantee security in Groningen. So we need to reduce gas extraction not only this year, but also in the years to come. The PVV wants us to stop exporting Groningen gas. Through long-term contracts we are obliged to pump about half of our Groninger gas across the border. Can the Minister indicate what measures he intends to take to deal more efficiently with our Groninger gas and reduce its compulsory export? The PVV has already put forward proposals for this in an earlier debate. Break those contracts open with an appeal of force majeure. The safety of the Groningen is at stake. Make more use of the LNG terminal in Rotterdam. Import gas, mix it with nitrogen and use it for export. In conclusion, the Minister has been following the Groningen facts for two years. The Minister ignores the core task of every government, which is to guarantee the safety of its inhabitants. We ask the Minister no longer to put the problems ahead by stacking research. We ask the Minister to accept his responsibility and solve the problems. We ask the Minister to reduce the extraction of natural gas in Groningen to a maximum of 30 billion cubic metres per year, to reduce the export of the Groningen gas and to ensure much faster and better damage treatment. Above all, we ask the Minister to offer the people who are in an unsaleable home a real way out by means of a buy-out arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr. Chairman. What a special day this is. In Friesland, the Groningen flag flies. It is not Sunday, but in Groningen the church bells have sounded. And from the public gallery this morning the Groningen national anthem sounded: From the Lauwerszee to the Dollard From Drenthe to the Wad There grows and blooms a wonderland Around a city of wonder This day can become much more special if the Chamber in majority, with the support of the groups of the VVD and the Labour Party, does what it has to do: place safety above all else and give Groningen clarity. First of all, I'm looking at the extraction plan. The extraction plan ceiling should be substantially reduced to 30 billion cubic metres in order to substantially reduce the risk of earthquakes. But the Minister is half-hearted in applying the precautionary principle. He sets a maximum of 16.5 billion cubic metres in a six-month period, but in the second half of the year this could be 23 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u117	It is undoubtedly a special day, but it was also a special day yesterday, because then the Christian Union in the province of Groningen voted against a motion calling for the maximum to be set at 30 billion cubic metres. Is Mrs Dik going to go over that now, or how exactly am I supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u118	I stand here as a member of the House of Representatives for the Christian Union, so I cannot speak for my colleagues in the States of Groningen. A motion has also been tabled on behalf of the Christian Union that sets a security of supply as a limit, and the leader of the Christian Union has also stated that that limit is at 30 billion cubic metres. That happened last night in the States of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u119	I asked that to make sure that the Christian Union, which I very much appreciate, is on the side of those who argue for a maximum of 30 billion cubs today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u120	The SP Group can count on that. That's what the Christian Union stands for, in the states of Groningen and here in the House of Representatives. I really do not understand that the Minister is keeping open the option of 39.4 billion cube this year. Is he willing to give real clarity? The extraction ceiling should also be gradually reduced in the coming years. That space is also available, given the long-term contracts that have expired. Is the Minister prepared to reduce the extraction ceiling annually? In recent years, the NAM and GasTerra, among others, have handled their responsibility badly. The purpose of the so-called gas building is to provide security of supply and to make as much profit as possible. The Christian Union believes that the security factor is absolutely undersnow. She is not the only one in that, I see when I look ahead to the report of the Research Council on Security. For example, in the past year, with a relatively mild winter, the maximum production was achieved according to the extraction ceiling: 42.5 billion cubic metres. If the NAM had produced purely for security of supply, production would have been much lower. In December, the NAM caused a production peak at Loppersum. How can you think of something like that, given the quake sensitivity in that area? The Christian Union therefore calls for an active interference of the government. The State surveillance already advised to bring the extraction back as quickly and as realistic as possible, and concludes that the system may also be adjustable. The principle of "hand on the crane" must therefore be taken much more actively. Does the Minister want to get to work on this? Will he also consider amending the Gas Act and Mining Act? It is completely bad to sell that the conversion capacity, which is just there, more or less stopped in 2013 and 2014. This could have significantly reduced production in Groningen. Is the Minister prepared to demand full use of conversion capacity immediately? The big current question that Groningers is concerned with is this: if there is a quake of 4 or 5 on the Richter scale, is my house still there, am I still safe, are there no casualties? The minister, the state surveillance, the NAM; no one knows the answer. State supervision has indicated that it cannot guarantee safety as a supervisory authority. The Christian Union finds this very, very worrying. What everyone does know is that the chance of a quake of more than 4.1 on the Richter scale is once every ten years. So the odds are considerable. The Netherlands must be a safe country to live in. The Christian Union therefore wants a strong, national approach for Groningen. The first step was the introduction of a national coordinator. It is important that this coordinator has broad powers and powers of perseverance. Damage assessment and handling should be independent of the NAM. The bad and slow handling of damage must be done with it. This has gone on long enough. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this also includes the reverse burden of proof. Isn't it bizarre that residents face the legal power of the NAM and have to explain the cracks in the wall themselves? I would like to hear if the Minister wishes to go through with this. Buildings need to be strengthened and restored on a large scale. The National Practice Directive has been published. In the case of existing construction, this is also deviated by the possibility of 1 in 10,000. Is that an acceptable level of safety or just a first step towards it? The call for reinforcement is a huge challenge, but at the same time strengthening the 35,000 weakest homes in five years is not fast enough. After all, the chance of a major quake is once every ten years. Is the Minister prepared to set more ambitious objectives with the province and municipalities? In what way are the viability and prestige of villages and streets as much as possible unaffected by this operation? Will the scope of the compensation area be extended? You really can't talk about just nine affected municipalities anymore. The Minister has already added two municipalities, but is that enough? I am thinking, for example, of East Groningen, where 300 claims have also been made. Is the Minister prepared to allow more municipalities to benefit from the compensation? On the housing market we see many poignant situations. I call on the Minister to come up with tailor-made solutions for the hopeless situations. For example, there must be a buy-out scheme for people trapped in their unsafe or unsellable homes. This morning at the Square we heard someone say: I live in a coffin. That's how she feels and she can't leave. For her and for all those other people, there has to be a solution. Damage recovery and preventive reinforcement of special public buildings, monuments and churches are really needed. The recovery must not be purely economic, but must also include the monumental value. The Monuments Act prohibits damage and destruction. The Monument Law also applies to the province of Groningen, doesn't it? Is the NAM going to ensure full compensation for the restoration and prevention of damage in monuments? Does this include social value? Is the Minister prepared to make a coordinator from the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science responsible for this? The most important solution is, of course, to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, in this case on natural gas. We really need to get rid of our gas addiction. The priority is energy saving. There's absolutely no need for a toothbrush. Make residential areas and houses energy-neutral and independent of gas, for example through the De Stroomaccelerate project. In earthquake-proof building, homes must be made energy efficient and as energy neutral as possible. We also need to make better use of residual heat from industry and greenhouse horticulture. Alternatives to gas-fired boilers should become much more attractive. At the moment, heat pumps are fiscally unattractive. Is the Minister prepared to adapt the energy tax to this? Next week, the long-awaited report from the Security Research Council will come out. The little surprising conclusion has already been leaked: no consideration has been given to the safety of the Groningers. Last year the motion of the Christian Union was adopted to prepare, depending on the outcome of the Research Council, measures to shut down the gas supply considerably at some point. That moment has come today. The Minister can no longer defend the ceiling of 39.4 billion cubic metres. There is only one answer that we can give today, and that is to set the ceiling at a maximum of 30 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, we have witnessed a progressive destabilisation of a large area in the Netherlands. This hasn't actually happened since 1953. In 1995 the weather threatened, but fortunately it ended well. By the way, we were also wise enough to evacuate the Betuwe in time. Now what? Now we are dealing with a self-induced disruption of a large part of the province of Groningen. There's already a lot of damage. In the municipality of Slochteren only 40% of the buildings are affected by the earthquakes. This damage doesn't increase little by little, but accelerates. Small cracks become large cracks. Walls get upset, foundations get undermined. In more places, support bears will be needed, which in turn carries health risks due to the fact that asbestos cement roofs are on the agenda. However, there is also another type of damage. People who can't sleep in their homes anymore. Grandparents who no longer want the grandchildren on the floor for fear of accidents. People who are afraid and frustrated. People who are much less productive. People who lose their trust. People who are completely out of it. Take a look in Woldendorp, near that little church on that little one, where someone wanted to make a social and cultural center for East Groningen: tearing everywhere, the outer wall ball, become useless. An owner who has become involved with the NAM in an unbeatable fight. Why don't you put yourself in the shoes of someone like that? Or in Helma Mulder's, from Stedum, described yesterday in Trouw. I have some questions for the Minister. First of all, how does he think his working methods relate to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights? This indicates that the State must effectively protect citizens in their right to physical and mental health and safety. Secondly, the Minister is always relying on advice from the SodM, but what is the value of the director at the hearing at the same time, more or less in one sentence, saying: the tremors are related to the extraction and we still know so little? Then there is only one conclusion: down with that extraction, until we know more. Isn't that the only way to gain the trust of the people in Groningen? Third. According to a report to be published, 6.5 billion is needed to make 35,000 homes earthquake-proof. What's the NAM gonna pay for that and not pay for it? And how much? In the legal sense there is no upper limit to this, but the fact that this is always in the middle contributes to mistrust and displeasure. Are there any clearer arrangements to be made about this? Can the NAM be relieved of any interference with the injury assessment? Can such a Center Safe Living become more public than private? After all, the direction should be with the minister. Fourth. What kind of legislation is needed? Do we need a new Crisis and Recovery Act? Do you need a delta law? If so, can we do it quickly? Can the Heat Act be adapted so that we can speed up housing insulation and reuse of residual heat, so that the need to extract gas is quickly reduced? Can the Mining Act be amended so that the reversal of the burden of proof is regulated? Many colleagues have already said something about this. Fifth. Isn't it also true that the damage, the longer you wait to shut it down, the bigger it will get? The cost of the non-sagging with the extraction may be higher than the loss of revenue. Sixth. When is what being dealt with and by whom? How do you quickly visualize the vulnerability? How do you arrange the input of the housing corporations? Actually, the tenants are not very good in the picture. What do we do about the apartment buildings in Delfzijl that are already tearing? Are there any swap houses or emergency homes coming in or out of the area? I think there's still room in the Blue City. In the meadows north of Meeden there is also room for emergency homes. Seventh. Can't the broom even go through all those commissions, centers, tables, regulators, gas vendors and knowledge institutions? In many people, there is a strong impression that everyone points to everyone, that everyone is hiding behind everyone, and that as a matter of fact, everyone says that we know too little and that more research is needed. Why don't you take that whole business off the table and think about what you need new under these conditions? There are two flavors. The priority should be to reduce the risks immediately. In science, risk is the product of danger and vulnerability. So what we need to do very simply is reduce the danger and reduce the vulnerability. The danger is reduced by lowering the extraction. That's very clear. The way the extraction and the tremors are related to each other is cliff-and-ready. As far as vulnerability is concerned, you must preventively strengthen and repair or demolish and rebuild buildings. Particular attention should be paid to high-rise buildings and buildings where group risk is high because many people come together. These are, for example, schools and universities. On both cranes, the SP wants to run. I have made a plan for this, which is also financially sound. We have to go back to 30 billion m this year and continue down as soon as possible. There will also be an additional 650 million in a compensation fund this year in order to speed up the process. That's 10% of the amount that's been mentioned to repair house damage. Everywhere in Groningen this morning the alarm clock is literally sounded and even in Leeuwarden the Groningen flag flies. What Groningen needs now is a leader; no accountant, no grocery store. The main task of this minister is simply to guarantee people a basic level of security. That's what matters now. The minister must put on the boots and go from the city into the province to the high country, taking the Groningers by hand. We need eleven provinces, not only today but also in the near future, to reach that twelfth. Leadership did not sit with PvdA drivers at Nieuwspoort and arrive with a delay story, after which the PvdA directors say to go to court. Leadership is not magic with numbers for six months, of which the winter part is almost over. Leadership is not a prize to Shell for corporate social responsibility in China, while Shell is part of this problem. Leadership is not always hiding behind the advice of a supervisor who himself says he doesn't know, who himself says he can't guarantee security, who leans on models of the NAM and who, by the way, once, in early 2013, made the call louder than it is now. That was the only time the Minister did not follow the advice. Leadership is punching the fist on the table and saying: and now I'm all there for Groningen and the Groningen! Only then can you put the word "safety" back in your mouth. I appeal very strongly to this minister. His previous and his plans presented earlier this week do not remove the unrest in Groningen. On the contrary. They're making it worse. What is needed today is Henk Kamp 2.0: someone who has the courage to turn the button on himself. Risk zero doesn't exist. Anyone can get under the tram tomorrow. But the risk that the Groningen people are now running can't and shouldn't. Security is leading the gas decision, the Minister says. The safety of the people in Groningen is what drives us, says the Minister. They're empty words. If the minister starts writing his memoirs after his political career, I do not want to read that 12 February 2015 was his big error of judgment. Only when the button is turned, can this minister say the word'security' again as far as the SP Group is concerned. If not, then any use of the word "security" is a thump in the face of the Groningen and, worst of all, a chronicle of an announced death.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u122	The SP Group says that lowering the danger is also lowering the tremors. But the danger remains, so in the end Mr Smaling's plan does not remove the quake danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr Öztürk's repeat button is a bit on, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u124	I'm original every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u125	As my colleague has already said, guaranteeing full safety is simply not possible, because you are not just rid of those tremors. So we are trying with many groups in the Chamber to keep the rate of reduction of extraction as high as possible; 12 billion cuub is called, but if we can quickly reach 20 billion cuubs, for example by giving a huge boost to residual heat consumption and home insulation, we really need a mega-level.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I understand what Mr Öztürk is trying to do, but I do not think that you can permanently evacuate an area. It's not Fukushima or Chernobyl. People must be free to choose whether to leave the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mr Smaling wants to play it down a little bit, but he doesn't have to, because my story is not the story he just told. The specific question for which I am standing is the following. The SP wants to use EUR 650 million for recovery. The SP Group claims to have put forward a well-funded plan. There are people who are still afraid, who feel tremors every night and want to move voluntarily to another area. Is Mr Smaling prepared to support these people generously with part of those EUR 650 million so that they can go to safe areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u127	Yeah, but you can do that, too. There's already a way out for a buyout. Maybe that's how you create swap houses and that might help solve the problems. Mr Öztürk's suggestion is part of a package of measures that should start tomorrow. It just has to be quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr. Chairman. All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. In a civilised society, citizens are not put at risk for the economic interests of another. In a civilised society, citizens are not burdened with comprehensive concerns about the safety of their family members and time-consuming and frustrating pathways to be compensated for the damage someone else has done to their homes. In a civilised society, citizens can rely on their government to put their security first and therefore be honest about the reasons why it makes certain decisions. The cabinet falls on all three of these criteria for a civilized society. And not a bit, with a 5+', but really very strong, as if a calculation test had to be done here. That is serious, because today it is about fundamental values, core values of a civilized society, being violent, knowingly and knowingly. These values include: everyone is equal and everyone can expect that the government does not place commercial interests above the safety of its loved ones. Apparently, this doesn't apply if you live in Groningen. Then, in the eyes of the Cabinet, with the support of the VVD and the Labour Party, you are less equal than others. With a look at the gas benefits, the Dutch government has robbed the Groningen of their security, their freedom and their trust. The Party for Animals is very sorry about that. Your home is your home, your own place, where you must feel safe. It's not like one of the victims we talked to, the place where you have to fear that something will happen to your wife and kids when there's an earthquake while you're at work and your house is already hanging together with misery. The freedom to divide your life as you wish, as is clear from all the stories, is drastically reduced when the profits of the NAM have put your house in the cracks. All your free time and your previously carefree mood go up to being recognized, repaired and compensated for the damage that wasn't your fault. How much negative energy this costs, a lady said she wanted to sell her house. She had already started the preparations and had a comprehensive independent valuation report showing that her house was fine. Then there was a quake. Now the outer walls of her house are held up by stut work. The NAM says very loudly to her: the damage, Madame, is the result of late maintenance. And thank you, you have an unsellable house and your free time will henceforth consist of fighting against this flagrant injustice. The obvious confidence that your government certainly considers people more important than some profit model of the NAM, is greatly affected if for years all indications that the extraction of gas in the Groningen field can and will lead to earthquakes are dismissed. If the quakes become more and more severe and an already uncontested supervisor comes along with advice to restrict extraction, confidence will be further undermined if the same government accepts this advice only halfheartedly and half-heartedly. That government dares to claim that the safety of you and your fellow countymen is paramount, while that, still, doesn't prove anything. Then you think: do I hear that correctly; does the cabinet say that security is paramount or do the coalition parties say that they would like to win the next election? It is clear: The Party for Animals considers Groningers more important than gas benefits. People are more important than profit models. We are bewildered, truly bewildered, that the cabinet does not feel the same. We find both the decision and the manner in which the cabinet operates unacceptable. If you don't think security is paramount, you shouldn't say it. That's how people get caught twice. The Animal Party would have liked the Prime Minister to attend this debate, because it is about the crucial question of how the safety of inhabitants of the Netherlands is weighed and appreciated. The risks we run with the safety of the Groningers are foreseeable. After all, we know what the risks are. And they're averted. We know what we have to do to prevent the risks from being so high. It is not clear to me how these interests are set against the other interests, namely the security of supply, the revenue model and the profit for the Treasury. I very much blame the cabinet for that. I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister about that. I am now asking the Minister of Economic Affairs. How was that discussed in the Cabinet? Is there any sense of culpability? Legal advice has been sought on the admissibility of allowing risks to persist, and we also know what we could do to reduce those risks in any case. Has the precautionary principle been discussed at length? I may be wrong, but as far as the Animal Party is concerned, this means that you say: the risks of gas extraction are so real at the moment for damage to the body and members of people, that we can no longer think from the status quo.This is the current level of gas extraction and we are going to improve safety by reducing gas extraction slightly, but from another point of departure: we are no longer winning gas, because that is the safest situation and we have to argue why we still have to keep some of the gas extraction alive. This must be done fairly and clearly, allowing us to identify all the risks so that we can make a responsible decision. The Party for Animals cannot now control this in any way. That's what we're blaming the Cabinet for. One possible route could be that we choose to develop for 2015 and 2016 the variant of a maximum extraction of 21 billion cubic metres. Then the Minister can tell us what the risks are of temporarily increasing gas production and what that means for safety. Then we can talk about whether this is acceptable or not, but then we will make a responsible and responsible decision and not the way it is done. The Party for Animals also denounces the role of the various organisations which are in an opaque way part of the decisions of the Cabinet. I'll name the NAM, GasTerra and the supervisor. We are very shocked by the noises we heard during the hearing. It seems very likely that the supervisor, who, in our view, should issue advice solely on the basis of the security risks, also clearly feels obliged to consider the interests of the NAM. How does the Minister see this? Next week, we'll get the report from the Security Research Council. I can already see that the decision-making structures are not in order. Can the Minister say anything about that? The main objection of the Party for Animals at the moment is that it is suggested that the safety of Groningers is paramount and that this is not reflected in any decision of the Cabinet. The second objection is that we are not able to check exactly how the cabinet weighs it. I see that my speaking time is running out. I would like to give the Minister one more point, and I would also like to add my voice to all the other questions raised by the opposition on how to deal as far as possible with the Groningen people who are now in deep trouble. This point concerns the reversal of the burden of proof. The Minister constantly rejects it. He says that it is not at all true that this is worse regulated in the Netherlands than in other countries. The Party for Animals feels it is high time that we did amend the law and that if we suspect earthquake damage, we would have the NAM reimburse the costs unless it can prove that it was not caused by the earthquake. The Animal Party has tabled an amendment to the Mining Act. It would be nice if the Minister would indicate in this debate that he is going to move on that point as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u129	I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks. I'll inform you in advance that after her contribution, she'll be suspended for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister say with his hand on his heart that Groningers are as safe in Groningen as Brabanders in Brabant and Zeeland, or all inhabitants of all provinces? If he can't say that, can he explain why it's fair and just that Groningers are living in more danger, or is that a fact of life? There have already been 860 earthquakes in that area, caused by an industrial activity. If the Groningers are still more unsafe than other Dutch people, how does the Minister look back on his own lack of significant intervention since the earthquake of 16 August 2012 when it could no longer be denied that gas extraction poses a threat to Groningen? When are Exxon and Shell actually guilty of endangerment in the Minister's opinion? When is the government negligent? LuckyTV had an item on the gas quakes. In it Groningen was returned to the sea for persistent complaints by the inhabitants about the earthquakes. Are we really going that way in the Netherlands that villages and towns are being evacuated because of total unviability, that large emergency villages appear in the vast Groningen landscape? Is there just as long waiting, researching and deciding and waiting again, examining and deciding until that is ultimately the only possibility? Then there is the decision-making. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it's a mess. We now decide on the 2014 extraction. Just so you know. Apparently, the Minister regretted his agreement to the Gas Mining Plan, because we received a note saying that things were different. Didn't he get support from the coalition? Can the Minister explain why we have followed a procedure of months and months, with reports, views and discussions, and then we get half an A4 with the message: I am going to do it differently? What is the legal status of that communication? What is the legal status of this morning's communication? Can he confirm that the overall ten-year extraction ceiling is still unchanged at 445.7 billion cubic metres for the period 2010 to 2020 and that with all these different movements there has been no change to that? I sincerely hope that the Deputy States of Groningen will ask for a provisional provision from the Council of State tomorrow, because I see it coming from this morning's note that there will be no reduction this year, despite perhaps some nice movements at the PvdA. I'm very curious to hear what we'll be hearing after lunch. Exxon Mobile and Shell are the third and fourth largest company in the world. Is this minister trapped between Shell's American lawyers and the PvdA's desperation by the approaching electoral defeat? The day after the Minister had amended the gas extraction decision, PvdA leader Samsom said that it was unthinkable that the gas extraction would go up again after 1 July. We already brought the minister, as he said in the same interview. Is that right? Does this Minister support Mr Samsom's words? Does the Minister conclude with me that the gas extraction decision of 2015-2016 in this Chamber apparently does not have sufficient support? It is no secret that my group has been calling for two years for a maximum extraction ceiling of 30 billion m by 2015 and 2016, but preferably lower. If GroenLinks had thought with us earlier, we were already lower and the problem was smaller. Unfortunately, you can't change the past, but you can use it to think about the future. I have repeatedly asked the Minister about the prevention of gas demand. We can all make sure that less gas is needed in the Netherlands. The SP has also said a lot about this and that foreign demand is falling. I asked this minister not to conclude any new contracts. The answer we get is that the Minister does not conclude contracts that last longer than five years. I just want this minister to stop signing new contracts. The gas is running low, the earthquakes have reached an unacceptable level. I used to call it a giant industrial disaster, and at a time like this, you can't conclude new contracts again. Can the NAM continue to do unlimited new drilling? What about the test drill at Blijham, for example? Does this kind of new drilling also fall under the current gas decision? Do more wells indeed offer a chance of a more flatter extraction, but doesn't the NAM do so because it would cost too much investment money? What does this minister think about the NAM getting 1 billion cube gas completely free of charge? Groningers who suffer from the tremors simply pay nicely for their gas with their gas and electricity bills, but the NAM, the company that causes the misery, gets an incredible amount of gas for free at 200 million to 300 million euros per year. The advantage of being in the debate a little later is that I can agree with a lot of comments made by opposition parties, including those on the settlement of damages, on strengthening the position of the Ombudsman, the distressing cases and the national monuments and churches. I have a question for the Minister about preventive reinforcement. Is it true that a resident of a preventively reinforced home still has a chance to die from an earthquake once every 10,000 years? 170,000 people live together in the eleven earthquake communities. Can I conclude from this that a risk of 170 deaths is acceptable to this minister? Is that safe enough? What if, for example, in Delfzijl, an earthquake caused the chemistry to fail? Then we have a disaster of unprecedented magnitude. As far as the National Coordinator Groningen is concerned, I wonder how the relationship with the municipalities and the province becomes. Rich, municipalities and province are secondary administrative bodies, elected by residents with their own democratic mandate. Is it now happening that powers of the municipalities and the province go to this government coordinator, who is under this minister? Then the Groningers have less to say about what is happening in their own municipality and province. I have previously asked questions about the transparent accessibility of all figures, so that scientists around the world can count and think along. It's called crowdsourceing science. Will the Minister do that? Can it be considered that State supervision of the Mines is decoupled from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and that it becomes an independent administrative body or belongs to another ministry? Can the Minister also ensure that all the data coming to the Chamber are comparable for our control? I mean, everything in calendar years and everything in one gas measurement unit. I nodded, even though I'm a lawyer, yes when asked if I'm a geologist, but now I feel like a geologist because of the amount of work I've had to put in to compare all these data over the past two years. I would really like to ask the Minister to deliver it in such a way that Members of Parliament can follow it well. The KNMI also regularly changes earthquake rates on its site. That doesn't increase confidence in the KNMI. The force, the location and the depth change. I would urge all colleagues, including those from the PvdA and the VVD, to consider personally the choice that we have to make in the votes this evening. Two years ago, we called for a rapid reduction in gas extraction. At that time it was apparently premature to do so in the words of my colleague from D66, but it is certainly not premature anymore. Personally think about what you're going to vote for tonight, because we can make a difference now by turning the crane down a lot more this time and thus increasing the safety of the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mrs. Van Tongeren says she prefers lower. Why doesn't GroenLinks choose that 21 billion cube? It is also just described and is therefore also an option. Why doesn't GroenLinks choose 21 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u132	If I know the VVD by my side, I'd like to file a motion for 21 billion cuub. That sounds fantastic. 12 billion cuub would be even better, but then we have to do something about the heating of the houses in the rest of the Netherlands. I would also like to hang out with the VVD. Indeed, we need to accelerate rehab of natural gas, isolate houses and ensure that we get zero energy homes. I am very happy to do so, Mr Bosman!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u133	So I hear that GroenLinks does not make a basic choice for lower extraction. It's only up to those who join GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u134	Listen to the noise in the public gallery: it is well understood that Mr Bosman is making a totally wrong conclusion. GroenLinks has always said since the opinion of the SodM that we should follow that advice. What the State surveillance of the Mines says is: bring down the extraction of gas as much as is realistic. That hasn't happened over and over again. I would also like to explain to Mr Bosman why this is not happening. A doctor tells you not to use sugar. If you ask "if I want to, can I have fructose?" And the doctor says "you better not do that, take dextrose," then you can't say: my doctor advised me to take dextrose. And that's what the VVD is doing all the time: hiding behind the SodM by saying it's agreed to 39.4 billion cubs. The SodM didn't do that, because all the opinions since 2012 have been "down as soon as possible." This is also stated in the last opinion and the SodM has not taken back a letter from its opinion at any time in 2013. And that advice was: shut down the crane as soon as possible. GroenLinks has always argued for this and fortunately we find a large number of our colleagues on our side today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u135	I've got a bit of a piece of shit, you know. Mrs Van Tongeren has pointed out a few times that GroenLinks and the Party for Animals would be the hallmarks of this discussion. A year before the motion by Mrs Van Tongeren and the Party of Animals, shortly after the opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines, Mr Van Gerven also tabled a motion on this subject, calling very strongly for the extraction to be accelerated as soon as possible. There are the signatures of D66, the Christian Union, the CDA and the Party for Animals. Has Mrs Van Tongeren forgotten that this motion was tabled at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u136	This played in February 2013. In January 2013, we received the advice of State surveillance of the Mines. As always, there are sharper motions and slightly less sharper motions. It is true that several motions have been tabled, but the only motion that really says "take steps now to reduce gas extraction by 40%" is the motion by GroenLinks. I am very pleased that the other opposition parties are now largely in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u137	But you do admit that the party I just mentioned, your own party and the Animal Party, have actually worked right on this dossier? Shall we draw that conclusion? We all want to profile ourselves, there's nothing wrong with that, but I don't think the Groningers are very much in favour of that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u138	I don't know who else is profiling, the SP or GroenLinks. The motions mentioned differ in that they say in our motion that the gas tap should be as close as possible and that steps should be taken in the direction of 40%. Then we didn't get the SP's support. I'm incredibly glad that support is here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u139	Thank you. Everyone has seen that it has been busy at my table in the last eight minutes, during Mrs Van Tongeren's contribution. There is a discussion about the lunch break. Some people are in great need of this, but I know that there are also people who cannot wait to hear Mr Vos say his contribution. There are also people who are simply hungry, for example the staff in the Chamber. My proposal is an interim solution. I am now going to suspend for ten minutes, so that they can be eaten for a while by those who are in great need of it. Then we'll do Mr. Vos's contribution. I know that there are people in the public gallery who want to go home afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr. Chairman. Like my colleagues, I come to Groningen a lot. Also a few weeks ago I walked in another Groningen farm. I saw struts against the outer walls, inside struts in the kitchen, cracks in the beams on the ceiling and cracks in the walls. I'd almost call it "the familiar image." I had a conversation with the residents at the kitchen table in which the problems with the NAM were discussed. When I walked out again and looked up at those beams with cracks in them, I found myself glad that I could walk out of that farm; that I left not only those problems but also the risk behind me and that I didn't have to see the moment of an earthquake at the kitchen table. If you realize that, you'll know right away that you can walk away. You're a representative from The Hague and you live in the Randstad. You don't live there, but tens of thousands of people live there. They live in that earthquake zone. They should not only sit at the kitchen table, but also have to go to bed in the evening, often not alone, but with their partner and with their children. Then you realize that we have a great responsibility to bear with each other. Since the 1950s, generations of Dutch people have grown up with a very different picture of natural gas: luxury and comfort. We shower in the morning with water heated by the Groningen natural gas. We go to dinner at night and cook our hot meal on Groningen natural gas. We sit together in our living room, which is also warm in winter thanks to Groningen natural gas. The gas yields are huge. We have all made EUR 265 billion of it. Our education, our roads, our bridges and locks, our health care, our enormous prosperity would not have been possible without that huge stream of money from fossil wealth. But the downside of all these achievements, wealth and luxury is dramatic. The Groningen soil is sinking. Houses collapse, the earth trembles. Since the beginning of the 1990s, the earth trembles more and more; houses, churches, offices, schools. Families must leave their homes because their homes, which are irreparably damaged, must be demolished. Kids have to go to an emergency building because they can't go to school anymore. Enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u141	I hear a very compassionate story from the Labour Party, but what we are all very curious about, of course, is whether Mr Vos supports Mr Samsom's words that it is inconceivable that the gas tap will open again in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u142	It is unthinkable that gas extraction will rise again after 1 July. We also opt for the safest scenario after 1 July and that is the scenario in which as little gas is extracted as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u143	It is, of course, deeply sad that it takes elections to get the Labour Party moving. What is the guarantee of the Labour Party that this gas crane will not be fully opened after 1 July? Does that guarantee run until the elections, or is that guarantee still there after 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u144	The Labour Party wants three things. Firstly, the extraction of gas must be reduced immediately to the lowest possible level. That was mentioned earlier today as the level of security of supply. Secondly, a new extraction plan should be drawn up as soon as possible, at the lowest possible level for safety. If I understand correctly, we can see the extraction plan in the Chamber on 1 July. Thirdly, we will be working on a further reduction in gas extraction, and we will be able to look forward to the plans by the end of the year. It is quite clear: gas extraction causes earthquakes and the opposite may not be scientifically proven, but it is very plausible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u145	We also hear beautiful words from our PvdA colleague. My first question is how are we going to establish together that gas extraction is going to the lowest possible level as soon as possible. We must agree that we are not going to wait until July. Mr Vos is a businessman; he occasionally talks about it. He knows contracts are leading. For words, the Groningers don't buy anything. There are two legally binding decisions by the Minister. One decision sets the 10-year ceiling at 445.7 billion cubic metres from 2010 to 2020. There is now also the Minister's assent decision with 39.4 billion cuub. How, as an opposition, will we, together with the PvdA, ensure that we make a change in these decisions, and indeed in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u146	I understand that as an opposition, you want to do something together with the Labour Party. First of all, I am concerned with what this cabinet has decided and how I judge it, as a member of my group, together with my group. Then one thing is clear: it has been enough. Everyone speaks of compassionate words that are expressed, but I think we are also turning them into deeds. The Minister initially reduced production at Loppersum by 80%. Then he said that 39.4 billion cub was the maximum. At that time, we asked if that was real enough. There is now a new decision that we are going to win up to 16.5 billion cubs until 1 July. The Labour Party has said that it is unthinkable that gas extraction should go up again afterwards. In the end, this will also fall down in the debate, but I would also like to give the Minister the opportunity to respond to what we have said here. It is clear that the cabinet deserves criticism as far as we are concerned. It was too little, it took too long and the seriousness of the problems was underestimated. There hasn't been enough decisive intervention. Almost everywhere, it was felt that gas extraction should be restored: you, Mrs Mulder of the CDA, Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66, the SP and even the PVV, with the Labour Party. Nevertheless, the cabinet continued to pursue its course until the very last moment. Was that necessary? No. I think that in a democracy you have an expensive duty to listen to the minority too, to know those arguments and then to shape your decisions. It's been too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u147	Either the PvdA clearly explains here that it does not support the Minister's decision of consent, or we are only hearing a lot of hollow phrases here about what might happen in July, what might be investigated and what might be going on. Are you in favour of this Minister's decision and are you in favour of the assent decision? Or are you really going to do something in this debate, so submit or support a motion to bring that gas extraction back as quickly as possible and as far as is realistic as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u148	It is not inconceivable that we should come up with something like that. We shall see that at the end of the debate. The decision of consent was taken by the Cabinet. Technically, it is still there, but materially, of course, it is off the table at the moment, because we have said that only 16.5 billion cubs can be won in the first half of the year. Legally, as a Member of Parliament, you do not have the opportunity to wipe the assent decision off the table here. The Chamber doesn't have that authority. I would like to hear immediately from the Minister how he intends to deal with the material reality that we are now facing, but it is clear that even the NAM has now announced that it agrees with the reduction until 1 July. That means 33 billion cubic metres for this year, with reserves of 2 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u149	I hear Mr Vos say that the PvdA also wants to return to a minimum approach, as I advocated on behalf of the CDA in the first term. We have linked it to the fact that we want to go back to 30 billion cubs, with the exception of very extreme winters; we have just talked about this. Can the PvdA find itself in that line of thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u150	Once again, I think that everyone here agrees that we need to bring gas extraction back. This has become increasingly clear, perhaps delayed for many people. We have no difference of opinion on that. You want to debate with me now whether it is going to be 30 billion cube or 33 billion cube, but we have already talked about last night's letter. On page 4, the cabinet says that GTS has conducted an investigation. They're engineers trained to do this. They advise 33 billion cuub. I'm not gonna say it's gonna be 30 billion. I find that irresponsible. Of course, that 3 billion doesn't make any difference either. What I do say is that we want three things. The third thing we want at the end of the year is another plan to go back into the extraction if necessary for the safety of the Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u151	It is then counted with the most extreme winters you can imagine, such as the winter of 1963, in which cars rode on the IJsselmeer, and the Eleven Cities Tour in 1985. They're looking at that data. I have a question for the CDA. It has been said to the Chamber that 3 billion cubs are needed in the Loppersum cluster, because otherwise the houses cannot be kept warm. In retrospect, it turns out that the conversion capacity has not been used to the maximum and that we should have done without the 3 billion in the Loppersum cluster. I have to say quite frankly that this has done something with my confidence. I'd rather, hand on the crane, 30 billion cube. At the moment when it is really such a harsh winter, the Minister comes back here and asks if we can possibly go up a bit. How does the PvdA Group stand in there? Didn't she hear about that 3 billion cube that was left over from the reduction in the Loppersum cluster? What is the view of the PvdA Group of the European People's Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u152	My trust has been low, too. I remember having to discuss 54 billion cube gas here, which was won in a year when we were talking about earthquakes over and over again. I understand that very well. The cabinet has now said: 39.4 billion cub. We have said that this is not enough. Now there is 16.5 billion, while 22 billion cube was planned for this period. That's a 25% reduction. I think it would be wise not to go any further than 33 billion cubic metres on an annual basis. If you do, you run the risk of getting a peak load on the Groningerveld at once and, if it is a cold winter, you have to open the wells at Loppersum. I cannot, however, assess the extent of the risk. There are safety risks to that, too. If Mrs Mulder thinks she can make a better assessment than the engineers of GTS, she will have to table a motion which states that it should not be 33 billion cubic metres, but 30 billion cubic metres. In any case, together we can see that she and all the other parties in the House of Representatives have been given what they have asked for, namely a significant reduction in gas extraction in Groningen from the point of view of safety. I'd rather discuss that profit with each other than argue over that last 3 billion cube, which is mostly a technical difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u153	I'm gonna try it sometime. Mr Vos tweeted, one hour before the Minister started his press conference, on Monday's decision that the security of the Groningen people is leading the gas decision. His colleague Nijboer also said that it was a good decision. Deputy Moorlag has said that the 16.5 billion cuub will have to go down in the second half of the year and that it will have to go down even further next year. The leader of the PvdA has said other things. That's how it gets very confusing. Wouldn't Mr. Vos and his party be doing himself a huge service by making it clear where the party is at the moment, now that the whole of Groningen is watching?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u154	The cabinet has further reduced gas extraction, from 22 billion cubic metres to 16.5 billion cubic metres. That's a 25% reduction. It is no secret that my party has insisted on this. We have also said that it is unthinkable that gas production should increase after 1 July of this year. I don't know how to say it any more clearly. This is the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u155	Is this the story of Mr. Vos or of the Labour Party? Do I get the same story from the delegates, the directors and the departments in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u156	The beauty of the Labour Party is that it is a broad popular movement. There's a lot of people in there and a lot of opinions. I remember the first time I was taken to Groningen by my colleague Tjeerd van Dekken, who is from Groningen. I met the local parties, party leaders and members of the Labour Party. They took me home and church to church. I suddenly realized how important it is that you are a party, a movement, and that you do things together. I never would have understood what was going on there if those people hadn't been so loud. I've had a fight with some of those people, too, because I didn't see it that way. That's very good, because that's how democracy works. Today I'm standing here and this is the end result. I'm actually a little proud of that, actually. I think I speak not only for myself, but on behalf of my entire group. I'm sorry it took so long. This is something that can't and can't anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u157	Then the next question remains. If the Labour Party is proud of the result achieved now and thinks it unthinkable that gas production should be increased again after 1 July, why does it not now choose to send a clear message to the Minister, as all opposition parties do, that the gas extraction decision should be amended? The line of the PvdA could be: up to 33 billion cuub or 30 billion cuub. Why doesn't the PvdA group just say that? It is not the case that the Minister has always treated the PvdA Group with equal respect. The PvdA Group itself has had the feeling: my confidence is embarrassed. Why doesn't the PvdA do what the Groningers are waiting for: give clarity about how much it will be for this year, not just over the period until 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u158	Let me correct one thing: I have always been treated with all respect. I did not always agree with the decisions taken by the cabinet. Mrs. Ouwehand says, what does the PvdA want? However, I have made this very clear. We need a new extraction plan as soon as possible. A new extraction plan should be established at the lowest possible level for safety. We expect to see this extraction plan here in the Chamber. I am sure the Minister will be able to explain how this is done in terms of timing and how it is done in both legal and technical terms. We would like a new extraction plan because we are going to 16.5 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u159	The Group of the Party of European Socialists is therefore also able to discuss putting that at 21 billion, if it believes what it is saying, namely that security must be a guiding principle. I press the PvdA the following on the heart, because I find it very annoying again. In the first term, in which the Labour Party has the chance to send a clear signal to the minister where to and where not, leave the PvdA escape routes open, for himself and for the minister, to do other things after 1 July. But Groningers don't have that escape route. It is time we recognised that and put it at the heart of the matter. So come on, a little balls, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u160	Firstly, the extraction of gas is immediately reduced to the lowest possible level. Secondly, a new extraction plan must be put in place in which safety is the starting point. Thirdly, there is a need to work towards further reduction of gas extraction. I expect the plans by the end of the year. I don't know how many balls Mrs. Ouwehand expects from a coalition partner, but I think this is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u161	My group does not think it is clear yet. I have heard Mr Vos mention two points: security of supply and security. If the cabinet does not make any promises now, can we expect a motion from the Labour Party in the second term, which says: we are going back to 35 billion cubic metres for the whole year? My group thinks that this is too high, but I am assuming Mr Vos's perspective. Is there going to be a motion that says 35 billion cubs for this year and, if necessary, from the point of view of security, we are going to take further steps back? In other words, is that 39.4 billion for the Labour Party off the table? If the Minister does not take that step, will the Labour Party take that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u162	That 39.4 billion seems to me to be off the table. Before I look further ahead, I await the Minister's answer in the first term. Then we can see in the second term what exactly we come up with. I do not think it is impossible for us to be lower than the 35 billion in the second half. There are new investigations, and that is what we can see. What applies to me is the level of security of supply as a lower limit and lowering the level of security of supply as far as possible by dealing as smartly as possible with all the technical possibilities we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u163	It's just not clear yet. I hear what Mr Vos is saying, but he is not prepared to make any consequences of this and to put it in place immediately, now or in the second term, that 35 billion cub is an upper limit for him and that he is prepared to go further down if necessary for safety. Why isn't he willing to do that? Why don't we clear it up for the Groningers? They are in uncertainty and they expect that clarity, but they only received it for six months. I think that we really need to provide that clarity today, because of the importance of the safety of the Groningen people. Pretty much the entire opposition that's standing here wants that. The only one on whom we are still dependent is Mr Vos; that is the Labour Party. Why don't you come to our side and speak up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u164	I have already concluded that all parties in the House of Representatives are on the same side here, namely that gas extraction must be reduced to ensure the safety of the people in Groningen as much as possible. That is why gas extraction has now been reduced from 39.4 billion to 33 plus 2 billion on an annual basis. If it is said that it should go to 30 billion or that it should be guaranteed for a longer period, then I would like to wait for the second time, because the Minister's answers will come to us. In the end, we will be able to make the final assessment. But the suggestion that I leave any ambiguity here? Once again, gas extraction goes back to the lowest possible level with immediate effect, a new extraction plan must be put in place. The old extraction plan will then be abandoned and we want to work towards a further reduction in gas extraction from the point of view of the safety of the people of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mr. Fox, I'm gonna try again anyway. Perhaps you could put those neatly prepared sentences that you have just looked back at a few times, on the side. I think we're pretty close. I'm gonna try and unravel it. You have said and repeated a few times that it must go immediately to the lowest possible level: 16.5 billion. You also said that you repeated the words of your party leader: it is unthinkable that we should win more in the second half. So we come out at two 16.5 times is 33 billion. We have two kinds of letters or plans in which something like this can be recorded. You have the extraction plan, which actually states what wells you're going to make, and you have the decision to set that ceiling. For the extraction plan, you say, you want to wait for that investigation to find out what well we're getting. It's still under study, and then maybe we can make it even safer. But we can change that ceiling today. You don't need that extraction plan for that. Are you prepared to adjust that ceiling today with a very large part of the opposition and not to leave it at 39.4 billion, but to bring it to 33 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u166	I think there's a difference of opinion as to how this is formal. As far as I know, the assent plan is a matter for the cabinet. Once again, I would like to await the Minister's reply if otherwise. It is clear that we have now all decided that we are going to win 16.5 billion in this six-month period and that the Labour Party considers it unthinkable that we should win more than that 16.5 billion in the second half. That means we're going to be 33 plus 2 billion for this year. You can talk a lot about all kinds of legal and technical ways in which we can fly into this and try to create confusion, but the fact is that today we are going to gain less gas with immediate effect. That is the result of the discussions and the political pressure you and all your colleagues have exerted with the Labour Party here. If I were you, I would congratulate myself on that, knowing that we have been far too late and that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u167	I will leave Mr. Fox's entrapment for a moment. I would like to say a few words about the assent decision. I have just checked, through official assistance, whether much preparation is needed to amend that assent decision. No, I was told, that can be done right away. We can therefore immediately lower that ceiling. The crucial question before the Labour Party today is: are we prepared to do so? Mr Vos says that in the second half of the year it should not be more than in the first half of the year. So you reach 33 and a margin of 2 billion; we can talk about that. Is Mr Vos prepared to amend that assent decision today? Of course the Minister is talking about that, but it is a cabinet in which the Labour Party sits. If the Chamber today puts down a motion by a broad majority stating that the ceiling should be lowered, that the assent decision should be changed, then I think the Minister will listen carefully if the Labour Party is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u168	Winning plan, assent decision; it will all be discussed in a moment. I have already said that the Labour Party is asking the Cabinet to submit a new extraction plan as soon as possible. I think it is only one thing to say that I am rather pragmatic about whether or not gas extraction is going down. Mrs. Van Veldhoven, are you still listening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u169	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u170	So for me, it's just one thing: is the gas extraction going down or not? Let us conclude that gas extraction is going down, for the third time now and for the first time a little significant: from 22 billion to 16.5 billion for this six months. For the period after that, it is unthinkable that extraction should go up again. With that we have realized something and actually changed something. Mrs van Veldhoven can then talk about extraction plans and approval decisions until she weighs one on us, but I think it really matters to the Groningen people whether or not the gas comes out of the tap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u171	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u172	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, we ask questions in two. I would therefore first like to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u173	I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u174	Yeah, but I'm the chairman here. Mrs. Van Tongeren, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u175	We were just discussing who could best ask the next question, Mr President. I note that in today's debate Mr Vos is not getting any clarity about further reductions and that the PvdA is simply supporting the Minister's decisions for the time being. I want to try to fly it from the other side. I heard Mr Vos say 'that is a fine signal 'that he also wants to work on further gas reduction'. If demand decreases, less needs to be won. Unfortunately, the PvdA voted against the previous GroenLinks motion to look at gas-free neighbourhoods, but I assume that next time the PvdA will vote in favour. Is the PvdA therefore willing to break open the energy agreement and ensure that there is a huge acceleration in insulation, in the number of zero-on-the-meter houses, in bringing down the gas consumption, and that less heat leaks to the outside air. Colleagues had all kinds of proposals on this. Do we find Mr Vos today with the clear statement that he is prepared to break open the energy agreement to ensure that gas demand goes down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u176	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance likes to break things open and see them differently than they have been established. The energy agreement is incredibly important. Mrs Van Tongeren knows better than anyone why. The energy agreement ensures that we get renewable energy in the Netherlands: solar energy, wind energy, geothermal energy. We need this energy instead of the fossil energy that we are using now, from, for example, the Groningen field. The energy agreement has been signed by over 40 civil society organisations and companies, from Greenpeace to Tata Steel. It has been confirmed by the Cabinet and supported in the Chamber by almost all parties. I'd be crazy to break it open. The energy agreement must be implemented as quickly as possible. If energy saving is not sufficiently guaranteed, I will do everything within that agreement to ensure that energy saving is made more efficient. I also have to think a little bit about what is going on in Groningen at this point, because there is a long way to go in Energy Valley with such initiatives. Green gas is also there...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u177	That is another debate, Mr Vos. Today it's about the gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u178	I note that the Labour Party is not prepared to make serious efforts to reduce gas in the Netherlands, because that requires an adjustment of the energy agreement. Is Mr Vos perhaps prepared to do this again? I am trying to see if there is anything in it to ensure, together with GroenLinks, that at least no new foreign gas contracts are concluded? If he does not want to further reduce the extraction, he may want to reduce domestic gas consumption. However, we just heard that the PvdA doesn't want that. Does the PvdA perhaps want to reduce foreign demand and ensure that we do not conclude new gas contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u179	As far as I know, no new contracts are being concluded with foreign countries. That is at the request of the Chamber and is also a success of your own group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u180	I believe that there are no longer long-term contracts, but short-term contracts, as we have heard. Mr. Vos just asked me if I was listening properly. Yeah, I'm listening, but I can't hear anything. That's what's happening here. Mr Vos says that it is unthinkable that we have heard here twenty times that the gas tap will open again in the second half. Then I say to Mr Vos: there is a way to guarantee that. This can be done by adjusting the ceiling. Apart from the ceiling, he can figure out between now and July where he wants to gain the amount of gas that is under the ceiling. I have just checked with the officials: the ceiling can be adjusted. We can do that this week, if the Chamber decides. The crucial question is the following, and I will listen very carefully if I hear a yes or a no. Is the Labour Party prepared to take action today with a large number of opposition parties, to say that it is unthinkable that it should put a guarantee on it and adjust the extraction ceiling of 39.4 billion cubic metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u181	I still do not quite understand what Mrs Van Veldhoven is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u182	I'd be happy to ask the question again, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u183	Despite all the criticisms that have been made, we have made it very clear that gas extraction is going down. I think it's a little acidic to deal with it this way, when you realize that we've reduced gas extraction from 39.4 billion cubs to 33 billion cubs. Now we put down 16.5 billion cube and see what happens. Maybe after 1 July we can reduce gas extraction even further. Why can't Mrs van Veldhoven wait for a moment and be confident that the efforts we have shown to get here will continue in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u184	Before I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoven, I must once again ask the people in the public gallery not to express disapproval or consent. People in this Chamber must have the space to express their views freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u185	Trust is good, but a clear ceiling is better. The Labour Party says the gas extraction has been reduced to 33 billion cubic metres. If I were, I wouldn't be standing here. The simple fact is that the Chamber and the Cabinet have not yet reduced gas extraction to 33 billion cubic metres, because there is still a ceiling of 39.4 billion cubic metres. That is why my question to the Labour Party is whether it is prepared to bring the ceiling back to 33 billion cubic metres. That is the proposal that Mr Vos says he is actually in favour of. Then record it with us, and we're done!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u186	What Mrs Van Veldhoven is doing here is creating confusion at a point where there is no confusion at all. In fact, she has put a very clear question to the cabinet, together with me and all the other colleagues in the Chamber: can gas extraction please be reduced? Gas extraction then went down. Mrs Van Veldhoven could have said that it is nice that the gas extraction has gone down and that we are going to see how we will proceed in July. The Labour Party's commitment that it is unthinkable that gas extraction should then go up again could have been borne by Mrs Van Veldhoven. I think that I have already fulfilled a lot of commitments and that trust is based on something. We could have looked into it further, because maybe it could be a little less than 35 billion cube. That is why it is unwise to set the ceiling at 35 billion cubic metres. But now Mrs. Van Veldhoven just leaves it for what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u187	I think the whole opposition is clear. The only one who is not clear is Mr Fox of the Labour Party. I've heard the word "invincible" ten or twenty times. "I expect, I think, we're going to work on it, I'm waiting": what guarantee does Mr Vos give to the people in Groningen that the gas crane will not open again on 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u188	I've been here for two and a half years. I haven't seen this before. I have said that it is unthinkable that the crane will open again after 1 July. So it doesn't open any further. Maybe it'll close further. We will look at how we should formally write that down and what decisions are needed for that. We will also see which motion text it leads to in the second term. It is clear that gas extraction is no longer rising. That's unthinkable. The safety of the inhabitants of Groningen is paramount. Gas extraction's more likely to go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u189	"Instantaneous" doesn't help us at all. A decision taken four weeks before the elections ends a few weeks after the elections and then Mr Vos guarantees that it is unthinkable? With all due respect, is Mr. Vos so naive or does he think the Groningen are naive? What guarantee do you give? I thought you were the guy who thought it was unthinkable that Aldel went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u190	That's another subject. I'll repeat it one more time. Gas extraction shall be reduced immediately to the lowest possible level. This means that this year we will go from the 39.4 billion proposed by this cabinet to 33 billion plus 2 billion. If you listen carefully, this means that it is unthinkable that after the 16.5 billion for the first half of the year more than 16.5 billion will be won in the second half. It's clear, isn't it? Second. We would like to see a new cabinet extraction plan, because it is no longer a good thing. We're assuming other quantities. Thirdly, we would like to see scenarios to reduce even further. I don't know how much clearer I can be than this, but it seems clear to me that this has achieved results and that the gas crane has been turned further; as close as possible. I think Groningers can do the math, too, Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u191	This is, after all, the most crucial issue today. I hear the Labour Party saying that it is willing to go further down. Apparently, she's assuming 33 billion cube right now. Is the Labour Party prepared to lower the ceiling which can be waived in extreme circumstances? Could Mr Vos perhaps come back to it in his second term? I can imagine that Mr Vos now also wants to know from the Minister whether he is going to go to 33 billion cubic metres. Suppose the Minister says we go with the Labour Party to 33 billion cuub. In fact, we now hope for that answer, because otherwise we will have to wait until 1 July of this year. Is that a scenario for the second term which Mr Vos says: can I agree with that reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u192	I'll be honest with you. I actually wanted that 30 billion cube, too. That is what most Groningers wanted; it was called for. That is why, in the actual round of questions, I asked the cabinet exactly what that was about. What is the safest level if you rely on security of supply? Based on the answer to that question from the engineers of GTS, I have to conclude that it is 33 billion and not 30 billion. So I'm assuming we're gonna take that 33 billion plus 2 billion if, as it's said, you can drive your car across the IJsselmeer. However, I do not think that any less than that is justified. After all, you know that the opposite is true. If we sit too low, and we need a peak load and suddenly we have to tax the Groningen field, then that leads to all kinds of consequences that may have a greater effect on safety than produce level. Unfortunately, that is the current state of affairs, as I have seen from the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u193	Is Mr Vos's expectation that the Groningen will eventually be clarified today, or does he think that it may not become clear until 1 July what the extraction will look like in the rest of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u194	I think the Groningen people understand very well the difference between the 42.5 billion that was originally there, the 39.4 billion that the cabinet wanted to decide and the 33 billion plus 2 billion that is now ahead. We will see exactly how we are going to achieve that. But today, with immediate effect, that extraction will be returned. In any case, I am very much in favour of this. I have already been able to say quite a lot in the answer to the questions. I would like to go into the question of the settlement of damages. It's not taken care of properly. We have been debating this with each other for years. The patience of my group is actually exhausted. Residents are still told that they have to prove that damage is caused by earthquakes and that there is no delay in maintenance. This morning I received a letter from someone who had been told at first: yes, it's okay; we're gonna fix it all nicely. Then the story was: we have looked at it again and it turns out to be overdue maintenance. A small 10% of all damages in Groningen are currently not reimbursed. That's not right. We have now discussed this with each other a number of times. I ask the Minister to resolve it now, because if he doesn't solve it, we have to deal with all kinds of matters that I know the Minister doesn't like very much, such as the reversal of the burden of proof. I'm gonna give you a shot right here. I say this is the last time we will talk about it in this way. I know the promise lies that by the end of the year all complex things will be resolved. If that is not the case, we need to take drastic measures. Families in Groningen are often on their own. They sometimes fight large, powerful agencies that are hard to fathom. I find it hard to remember myself sometimes. We have a Groninger gas ombudsman, who is also independent counsel, we have a special committee for special cases, we have a Dialogue table and so we can continue. Where are you supposed to be? I would like families to receive independent, paid assistance from, for example, a damage expert, an architect or a lawyer if they have a trial or a problem with the NAM. Can the Minister ensure that this assistance is provided to people with complex problems? Unfortunately, there will be a lot of construction work in Groningen in the coming years due to the restoration and strengthening of housing. These construction works, however harsh, of course also have a downside, namely that there is a lot of work. That's work for construction workers and work for architects. However, the FNV has found that there have been repeated violations of Dutch laws and regulations on construction sites in the north of the country. All I have to do is refer to the construction of the coal power plant, and everyone knows how that happened, with illegal labour. I would like to receive the Minister's undertaking that he will talk to the FNV to ensure that the problems and abuses are dealt with, that the construction work takes place in accordance with Dutch legislation and that Dutch construction workers can find the work that they need so much at the moment in the still difficult economic situation. Then there is the question of which villages, communities and municipalities should and should not be included in the supplementary agreement. That's administrative bullshit. You either have earthquake damage or you don't. If there is earthquake damage, you will be helped, and if you do not have earthquake damage, you will not be helped, whether or not you are within the administrative agreement. The fact that there's stooge about that is actually too embarrassing for it to be. I would also like to see all 500 damage cases outside of Menterwolde and Hoogezand just fall within that arrangement. I would also like to receive a commitment from the Minister on this point. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. We owe money to Groningen. The recognition of the many problems in the region has finally come, but we are far from there. Over the next few years, we have an expensive duty to restore the trust that has been completely lost. We will have to show a great deal more commitment than has been shown today. We will also have to achieve a great deal more than has been achieved so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u195	Madam President. Several colleagues have expressed in different terms the concern that is rightly expressed in Groningen. It's hard to see what's happened in the past few years. When you sit at kitchen tables and talk to the people we've all done that you understand the care, the uncertainty and the sleepless nights. Not for nothing is security core task number one of the government. It's about defence, it's about justice, but it's about this kind of essential security in your own environment. We have to deal with that carefully. I had actually prepared a large number of points, which my fellow Members have also raised. In view of the time and the need for everyone to engage in the debate with the Minister, I would like to summarize it very briefly. I agree with colleagues who have said that the handling of damages should be better and faster. The same applies to the reversal of the burden of proof. Just give residents the benefit of the doubt. The strengthening of buildings must be faster and the budget must not be a barrier to what is needed. We should not consider whether the buy-back scheme for housing should be there, but how. We are in favour of the National Coordinator. Is it also competent to come up with solutions on these issues? If not, will the Minister himself come up with solutions? An underexposed point I found how we can reduce the amount of gas we need from Groningen. Fortunately, it was just mentioned in Mr Vos' contribution, after questions from Mrs Van Tongeren. We are all in favour of lowering that demand. I think it is a really underexposed point in the energy agreement. With residual heat and geothermal energy, we can do a lot more. I recently went to work at a greenhouse where geothermals were won. It's great to see how that works. There are also a few risks to it. We need to map it. But we can and must do much more with that. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to do so. I am focusing on the most important point in this debate. I think the key question is: how much is going to be won? That question has just been discussed in detail. I don't hear much discussion about the first six months. You can say something about that, but that 16.5 billion cub is not in discussion. This is positive: fewer earthquakes and less severe earthquakes. But, of course, the discussion is about the 39.4 billion cube. Do I have to? I find it striking that everyone in this debate has two principles. That's good, because then we'll agree on the principles. The first is security of supply. Then you come out somewhere between the 21 billion cube and 35 billion cube. I note that in the short term no one wants under 30 billion cubs, because then you get very big peaks when you have a cold winter. Then you have to win a lot in a very short time and that's not good. I conclude that the logical range is between 30 billion cube and 35 billion cube. If you look at safety, you have to sit as low as possible, but then the question is what the right level is. I think there's simply an exchange between the level you want to keep as low as possible, and the question of what you do when it gets very cold and you get peaks. There's an exchange. I think the Minister will be able to comment on this later. What if you consider those two things, on balance, is the best? If you apply these two principles, I honestly don't understand the 39.4 billion cube. I understand everything between the 30 billion cube and the 35 billion cube. There you can make political or technical choices. I think the latter is better, basing it as much as possible on a technical analysis. But I don't get the 39.4 billion cub unless you're using a third principle. I'd understand if you were hoping for extra income when it turns out in July that you can win more than that 16.5 billion cube in the first six months. In my view, this is also the reasoning I have heard from the Minister: in the first half of the year 16.5 billion cubic metres and, in principle, 39.4 billion cubic metres for the whole year. The Minister is waiting for the security analysis, and if it shows that we can, we will. However, with the knowledge of today, with all the reports available, I as a Member of Parliament have no indication that it could come out that it could be more than 16.5 billion cubic metres. Simply because of the fact that less is always better for safety, unless you cause peaks with less extraction, because the temperature is disappointing, but that's already in that 33 billion cube plus 2 billion cube. So, whether that 33 billion cub plus 2 billion cub is too little and there has to be an analysis that you have to go to 39.4 billion cub for security, but I don't see it. I believe that 39.4 billion is vain hope and we can better fix it today at 33 billion cuub plus 2 billion cuub. Then you reach a maximum of 35 billion cube. Mr Vos concluded his speech with the words: we need to work on trust in Groningen. I think so, too. That's what we all do. Let's face it, we all took advantage of the gas for a long time. The problem has come up hard in recent years, but all previous Cabinets have benefited from it. We have played a part in that too. In that sense, therefore, we have collective guilt. That's what I call it. I don't mind saying that kind of words. But then we have to build on that trust. When I look at the question from Groningen and at what is needed now, I think building confidence also means that we don't have to discuss the maximum ceiling again for months, while everyone can calculate that it's up to 35 billion cube. We must also make a firm commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u196	Mr. Chairman. We have heard many fine words about the safety of the inhabitants in the quake area. Hail to the political parties who almost unanimously say that security comes first. But unfortunately, their words do not match their actions. Even if you turn off the gas tap further, the earthquakes will continue to occur. All scientists agree on that. This is, of course, a tragedy for the inhabitants, because they live in uncertainty. Their homes must be restored and fortified endlessly. That takes a lot of time, lots of procedures and lots of money. So it keeps mopping with the tap open. We come up with a completely different solution. We propose to buy out the inhabitants of the quake against a generous provision and to pay them a generous removal allowance. We understand that this radical solution can, in the first instance, cause a shock. It's a lot to ask people to move out of their familiar living environment. I have experienced myself that my parental home in Roermond has been demolished before my eyes. That hurt me and my parents a lot. But when I see where they now live: a safe, energy-efficient and sustainable home. So it worked out in the end. Of course, people will have a lot of say in the new residential areas to be formed. They decide how and with whom they're going to live. From the quake area we want to make a nature reserve. The NAM will be asked to make a proportionate contribution to the costs of the plan. For years, she has made a good profit from gas extraction, and is therefore responsible for the consequences. This plan has advantages, but also disadvantages. An advantage is that the uncertainty and the unsafe feeling of the inhabitants is really being solved structurally. A downside is that people have to move. That hurts, and we understand that pain. But with each other, we can make a fresh start in a new place. Negative energy becomes positive energy. Shrinking areas are also being strengthened. The arrival of the new residents will enable them to secure their necessary facilities such as schools and so on. In addition, the local economy is strengthened and small and medium-sized enterprises are encouraged. The construction of new residential areas gives a strong boost to employment. Our plan is win, win, win for everyone. Finally, everyone is done with the endless problems and discussions surrounding gas extraction. I can guarantee that before the summer, when the state elections are over, we will have the same debate here again and we will have buses full of people from Groningen again, because unfortunately we do not dare to solve the foundation of the problem together. Does the Minister agree with us and with many scientists, the NAM and State surveillance of the Mines that gas extraction will not reduce earthquakes, even if gas extraction is reduced? Is the Minister aware that earthquakes have a huge impact on the inhabitants of the area? Is the Minister prepared to investigate our alternative plan further? I would like to conclude my speech the way I started it. It is unique that all political parties are so unanimous in their judgment that the security and peace of mind of the inhabitants must be paramount. Now it's time we realized that turning off the gas tap doesn't guarantee safety. Colleagues have mentioned 40, 35 and 30, a bingo of numbers, but the earthquakes will continue to come, whatever gas tap you eventually bring down. It's a good thing the people in Groningen aren't fooled. It's time to think about a real solution. Let's try to think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-8.u197	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber.
