ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. We live in a very nice and hopeful time. For about two years, new medicines have become available, creating new perspectives for patients with very serious and often life-threatening conditions. They are thus likely to have a significant improvement in the quality of life and also to have a longer life. These new resources not only offer a new perspective, but also new dilemmas. These dilemmas lie particularly in affordability, as these medicines are very expensive. The affordability dilemma will increase in the coming years, as there is expected to be a significant increase in these hopeful medicines. Last Friday, in the treatment of cancer, Antoni van Leeuwenhoek brought out that doctors in this hospital are increasingly being referred to patients who could have been assisted in a regular hospital, but who have nevertheless been referred. This would cause these patients to be given the appropriate treatment too late or not at all. It is up to the hospital board to negotiate with the health insurers an adequate budget, taking into account the question of care. It is up to the doctor to assess which care should be provided to the patient. It is not acceptable for the VVD to determine whether patients are being treated or referred to. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State in the absence of the Minister. How big is the problem? As far as it is not known, will the Secretary of State have this investigated? Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that shifting patients is not acceptable solely for financial reasons? Does he agree with the VVD that a doctor and not a member of the board of directors should decide whether and if so, what treatment should be given? Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that the parties quickly go round the table to put an end to this shuffling behaviour? Does the IGZ still have a role to play in cases where the referral of patients does not comply with the directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The report that patients would not receive the care they need for financial reasons is not good. I take these signals very seriously. The Minister has previously taken this up by asking the KWF and the Dutch Healthcare Authority to give an opinion on this: is this a problem or is there a problem coming? Last year the KWF issued a report on the bottlenecks in oncology care. The KWF then indicated that with a single exception after the care was still well arranged. However, at the end of 2014 the Minister himself decided to ask the main parties, such as the treatment, the KWF and the patient association, to discuss the issue with each other. It is agreed that they will set up a working group to deliver an opinion for this summer, looking at both the quality and the quantity of this issue. This is also intended to prevent problems of access to oncology, which are not there yet, but perhaps later because of the expensive medicines. It's good to mention that. It is, of course, good to look at the figures, but it is also very good to point out that the working group, which will report before the summer, will look at this problem in particular. The Management Board does not decide whether someone should be treated; that is what the doctor determines. Shifting behaviour for financial reasons is therefore undesirable. That will have to be looked at. We need to look at the total spectrum. Is this a money issue? Does it have to do with the price of expensive medicines, which may increase in the future because we get much more personalized medicines? Or does it have to do with the fact that at one hospital there is different expertise than at the other hospital, which makes it okay to go to another hospital? We have to look very seriously at that. I expect the findings for the summer. That's not just about the KWF report. The Minister has asked the Dutch Healthcare Authority not to look only at oncology, but wide-rangingly at expensive medicines because this problem may come. That means we'll get the findings of the NZa before the summer. For the short term: do not slide with patients for financial reasons, because that is not good. For the long term, we'll see if there's a problem with the expensive drugs. There will be two reports from the WCF and the NZa, which will allow us to take further decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	It is very good to hear that the Secretary of State shares with the VVD that the doctor does the referral and not the board and that financial reasons should not be the basis for such a referral. Of course, it may be necessary to take care of it. It is also very good to hear that the working groups are already working. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to clarify in a moment whether the question of the scale of the problem can already be taken into account, possibly even with a role for the IGZ as I did at first instance. It is clear that the dilemmas surrounding expensive medicines have not just been resolved; the Secretary of State has already indicated. We know that much more of these hopeful but also very expensive resources will be available in the short term. A working party is coming up and it will break up a lot of dilemmas with us, but the most important question we have is how we can prevent new expensive resources from being allowed, just as in the United Kingdom, the reimbursement of many existing resources will disappear. Are we able to find a good balance? Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that most hope and probability of widespread availability of expensive effective resources lies with appropriate use, i.e. a proper balance between the doctor and the patient or, if so, which treatment makes the greatest contribution to quality of life?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	The answer to the first question as to whether the short-term problems are included in the working group is: yes, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The role of the IGZ will also be considered. The answer to the second question is that we have asked the NZa not only to look at the oncology drugs but to look more broadly at the developments in the field of expensive medicines. I think it is too early to say that "appropriate use" is the solution direction. I'm sure that's something that needs to be looked at. This must above all be a matter between the doctor and the patient. Others have to be very careful if they want to get involved. In the meeting room, in the consultation between the physician and the patient, it will have to be made clear what the best treatment is for the patient. The question of what is appropriate use should therefore be raised mainly in the Chamber. But once again, the Dutch Healthcare Authority will come up with a report that will go wider than just oncology.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is good to hear that there will be a clear vision on both the short and the long term. There's one question left. Does the Minister know when the report will be ready and when the Chamber will see it with an appreciation from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	That'll be before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	I find it rather striking that the largest government group is asking how expensive patients can be passed on. We all know that hospitals had to take the financial risk for the expensive drugs to make it all cheaper. One of the consequences of this is that expensive patients are being passed on. However, there is a solution. After all, there is a lot of money on the shelves of health insurers, over 9 billion of their own reserves. So it is not a question of too little money, but of badly spent money. My question to the Secretary of State in the absence of the Minister is: will you table with the health insurance companies to ensure that they simply reimburse this medication for people who need it, because the doctor has established it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	That is actually the case; it is just in the package. We decide which drugs are in the package and which are not. Then there is a duty of care of the health insurance companies that the medicines people need are sufficiently bought in. That means that the duty of care and the right of people to get the medicines they are entitled to, according to the package, already exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	In a health system of solidarity, it should not be the case that people are being pinged with people. That is the case here. What financial incentive, negative perverse incentive, causes people to be pushed forward instead of treated? That wrong stimulus must be removed from this system. Then we solve it for the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	That means there are two issues. The first is what Mr Rutte has done: now that we are dealing with the development of increasingly expensive medicines that are personalised, there is reason to think about what this means for the reimbursement of expensive medicines. The debate will have to take place within the framework of the package, but perhaps we will also have to talk to industry about price development. On the other hand, we will have to ensure that people who need medicines, if they need them, can get them. That's the package discussion. This means that sufficient care must be bought in and that hospitals must, of course, do so within their budget, but that it must never lead to people being told for financial reasons that they cannot get it. Then we have another discussion: is the duty of care correct and is there enough money available for expensive medicines? We need to discuss both points when it comes to the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	What a sanctimonious display of the VVD and the PvdA. In the media, they are calling for the most urgent solution and here in the Chamber they are calling for the most urgent solution. But we discussed it here in the Chamber less than a month ago. The PVV then filed a motion rejected by the VVD and the PvdA. I shall read out the request in the motion: 'Ask the government to allow the reimbursement of expensive medicines this year on the basis of post-calculation, so that patients can receive the medication necessary for the treatment of their disease'. There is EUR 10 billion on the shelf of the health insurance companies. So there are solutions. The Minister then advised against this motion. What would the Secretary of State's vote be if I retabled this motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	Then I guess I'd still exercise that same restraint. I'll explain why. If we are going to have a discussion with each other, especially in the future, about the price development of medicines that are becoming more and more personal, then we must also have a discussion about whether these medicines will remain sufficiently available for people who need them. It has to be. That's the package discussion. The second question is: what is the price of these medicines? Many factors play a role in this. This is not only about the remuneration side, but also, above all, about the discussion with the pharmaceutical industry, for example, about what the price development of these expensive medicines should be. If we say every time more expensive medicines come on the market, that as a government we are going to apply them immediately, then in fact we are subsidising the pharmaceutical industry in a very easy way. We wouldn't want that either. So we need to have a good discussion on the following two questions. What should be a fair price for expensive medicines? How do we ensure that this goes well into the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	We have just witnessed a second-class play between the PvdA and the VVD and the Secretary of State. That's right. We were here a month ago. At the time, the Chamber had the same request: solve this problem; do not do this to people. We got the same answer then: before the summer. The coalition parties then accepted this answer and they are now accepting it. If the Secretary of State really thinks this is important and really wants to get us out of this problem, then I ask him to make sure that we have that information before 1 June. 1 July we always have big discussions about the package. Then the Chamber can talk about it and people no longer have to live in so much uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	So now we have agreed in this Chamber to investigate this very carefully together with KWF and the Healthcare Authority. We have also agreed that the Chamber will be given the report for the summer recess. I think that's a good deal. The agreement also stands, but now it is said: all this is not good, because it should not be before the summer, but on 1 June. I think it would be a good idea to investigate this very carefully. This is running. There will be reports of findings and they will also be sent to the Chamber to discuss them properly. The debate should not now be about whether this will happen on 1 June or 2 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers.
