ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery. Of course, I would also like to welcome the leaders, the support and everyone who is following this debate through the media. In this debate we have three minutes of speaking time per group. We do the interruptions in two. We're assuming a maximum of two interruptions per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. "In the past with a strip card you could see how many stripes were left on it. With the O.V. chip card, it's not anymore. Only at check-in and check-out you can see the balance, but that also disappears very quickly." This is a quote from someone with a slightly intellectual disability. There are 1.4 million people in the Netherlands with a slightly intellectual disability. They are eager to participate in society, but they do not always get a chance. The Prime Minister, the man of participatory propaganda, is shining through absenteeism today. Apparently, the participation of people with a slightly intellectual disability is not so important to him that he thinks he should appear in the Chamber tonight. There are 1.4 million people in the Netherlands with a slightly intellectual disability. It is increasingly difficult for them to keep up with society. The automation and the accelerated pace are the culprits. Acts that people often act unthinkingly mean enormous obstacles to them. Then you can think of pinning money, banking the Internet, travelling by train or bus, organizing your own household or managing your money. The cuts in education, care and social security are making the lives of these people even more difficult. Think of the megaclasses in education and support in education or at work that have been cut off. Think of the workplaces in the social workshops. It was about simple work. This is now being taken over by automation or the pace of work is being increased. Think also of the daily guidance in the household or the daily spending. The participatory society is really the heart of the coalition agreement, but that is apparently only for those who can keep up. There is a limit to this participatory society. So my question tonight is: does the Cabinet recognise that and so on, and what is it going to do to ensure that people with a slightly intellectual disability can also participate in our society? Does the government also agree with the SP that the policy of austerity now seems to be the policy of exclusion? Is the Cabinet prepared to reach, in consultation with the relevant interest groups, a basic legal level of provision for people with a slightly intellectual disability? You can then think about all kinds of things, for example a form brigade at the municipality where people can arrange matters related to their benefit, debt restructuring, care, education or their allowances. That form squad could keep these people in sight. After all, it is also a problem that these people disappear from the sight of municipalities. There is also a duty of care for banks, of providing support for banking. Think of providing support in the area of money, pins and internet banking, but also participating in the website thresholdfree.nl. I would like to know from the cabinet whether there are any ideas for keeping the counters open at the stations and for facilitating the O.V. chip card? And what is the government's position on the right to a coach for education, internship and guidance to work? Is the cabinet prepared to perhaps work on an easier language level in the letters sent by the government to people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u3	Would you like to come to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u4	I have one last sentence. Will the Prime Minister of the participatory propaganda and the Excellency, the Prime Minister who refuses to appear in the Lower House tonight, also be the Prime Minister of the 1.4 million people with a slightly intellectual disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. The estimates vary, but I do know one thing: there are many more people with intellectual disabilities in the Netherlands than we think with each other. I heard the story of a lady who brought her books back to the library too late and had to pay a fine for it. However, no more cash could be paid. This lady was under curatel and didn't have a debit card. There was great annoyance with the library staff and on the other hand there was a lady who wanted to pay, but just didn't know how to do it. I can keep a long story, but this situation reflects the essence of the problem. Our society is not always and not everywhere oriented towards people with intellectual disabilities. More knowledge is needed about people with learning difficulties. This applies to us as a society, but also to healthcare professionals, for example in psychiatry or in any other area. This target group is not very well on our retina. A clear picture is outlined in the CPB report. Society has become more complicated, but sometimes more complicated. At the same time, we believe it is important that people with intellectual disabilities participate fully. That is, of course, entirely justified. If you ask the interest association LFB, through and for people with intellectual disabilities, digitizing our society is one of the main problems. Think, for example, of websites that are not easily accessible, including websites of government institutions. My group believes that this is a relatively simple thing to attract ourselves to. I therefore ask the cabinet to write a hand-pick for government organisations. Do the rulers agree with me that the government should set an example in this respect? We have just heard the example of the OV-chipkaart. I have another example. The vast majority of health insurance companies have chosen to require SMS security in addition to the DigiD login code to manage the data. This SMS function can only be done via a mobile phone. My question is: why only on a mobile phone, why can't we also speak on the landline? Is the cabinet going to solve this problem, which is certainly also playing elsewhere? I mention the banks and the Tax Office? Then there's the kitchen table calls. I think this is a big risk. People in this group will often say that they can still do anything by themselves, when they really need help. Luckily, someone can always be at that kitchen table call. But what happens if the conversation doesn't actually take place at the kitchen table, but is taken by phone? I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. Do the rulers agree with me that we should not accept this, but should stand up for people with intellectual disabilities? We are about to ratify the UN Convention for people with disabilities. My group hopes that something will actually change and that this is not just symbolic legislation. It really needs to bring the inclusive society one step closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands about 2 million people have a slightly intellectual disability and in general an IQ between 50 and 85 is counted. According to experts, the number of people who are no longer self-sufficient without professional guidance or help from the government is increasing explosively. The world is getting faster, more complex and more digital. Last week there was a broadcast of Zembla in which some data emerged. It showed that 30% of homeless people have a slightly intellectual disability. Furthermore, it has been found that half of the top 600 turn-door criminals have a slightly intellectual limitation. They're usually boys. This group of people with a slightly intellectual disability does not ask for help themselves. Two weeks ago, the news came out that most people don't know which healthcare centre they should be at because of all the reforms. The CDA has asked written questions about this. A previous hearing in the Chamber revealed that it is still very complicated to determine when someone belongs to this group of people. But even more important is the question of how to help this group. What is the status of the new programmes in this respect? How do we get a group that needs help in all kinds of areas of life, for example, debt relief and assistance in the case of home expulsions, which cost society a lot of money, if they do not ask for help themselves? In the so-called kitchen table conversations, independent customer support is of vital importance for this group of people. I'm getting very negative reports about that, which shows that this is not well arranged. In a municipality such as Den Bosch, half a day of independent customer support is available. I'm sure there will be volunteers at work, but the CDA thinks it's important that we get the finger together. For this particular group it is extremely important that there is an eye in that conversation for the fact that you are talking to someone with a slightly intellectual disability and that you also realize that this should affect the questions you are asking. Last Tuesday we received a petition from Mentorschap Nederland. For the people we are talking about tonight, a mentor is sometimes the difference between quality in their lives or complete chaos in their lives, with the associated social costs. The 1,500 mentors under Mentoring Netherlands cannot do this alone. They need intervision. For example, they need courses to maintain their knowledge. For this, Mentorschap Nederland. This foundation is now looking at bankruptcy in the face. We're talking about $180,000. That's a lot of money, but if you look at it nationwide, it's not a lot. Previously, the CDA Group tabled a motion on this issue. At that time, it was promised that consideration will be given to the possibility of a national knowledge infrastructure, including the expertise of, for example, Mentoring Netherlands. How's this going? Otherwise, as a CDA, we have to retable that motion, because this is just a piece of support that makes the difference between quality in their lives or complete chaos for these people. We are standing here with each other tonight and I think we all share the view that we should help this group of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. "The world is moving too fast. The world's moving way too fast. If you call an agency or a company these days, you'll get a tape instead of a real person." That's what Ilse says in the broadcast of ZEMBLA on April 1st. Society is becoming more and more complex. At the station the gentleman behind the counter has been replaced by a vending machine. A digital screen tells you what track your train departs from. And to request an ID card from your municipality, you need to make an appointment via the internet instead of just stepping in. That all sounds perfectly logical and convenient, but the SCP-report shows that more and more people with a slightly intellectual disability are estimated to have more than 2 million Dutch people having problems saving themselves. That is a very large group, for which we are also responsible as a society. The same society, on the other hand, requires ever greater self-reliance. D66 represents an inclusive society, where people participate within the possibilities of their limitations. That is why we also want the UN Convention to be ratified as soon as possible. When is the work programme coming to the Chamber? The government must also start with itself. I ask both directors and through them to the cabinet and actually to the entire government to look in the mirror as well. Because we've made it very, very complicated. The National Ombudsman also spoke about this on his first working day. In the field of work and income, for example, there is a forest of schemes, surcharges and deductions. Then you have to know what you're entitled to. It could be easier. In communication, too, it can be much simpler. Can the directors undertake that in future more experienced experts will be involved in the preparation of letters, information campaigns and, for example, cabinet responses? Will the cabinet involve people with a slightly intellectual disability in preparing the cabinet response to the SCP report? We received a letter today stating that there will be another reaction. It seems to me very good to involve the group itself, because they know what they are up against. New technologies such as the chip card or internet banking make society more complicated, while ICT can also help people with learning difficulties, such as the agenda app assisted autism. It ensures that people who suffer from autism receive guidance, for example when planning the whole day. We all know that this structure is very important. This has to be developed. Would the Minister like to see whether it is possible to achieve innovation in this area from VWS, together with Economic Affairs and the market, for example in the form of an SBIR programme? SBIR stands for: Small Businesses Innovation Research. This is an organisation that combines societal problems with innovation. I'd like to get a response. Buddy systems exist in many other sectors. Will the Minister consult with municipalities to see how such a buddy system can help?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Better understood is the title of the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Office which we are discussing this evening. As far as I'm concerned, it's a good report. It shows the development in the way we deal with people with intellectual or slightly intellectual disabilities. The first law on this matter was called "Insanity Law" more than a century and a half ago, and now we find people with intellectual disabilities as many ordinary citizens as possible. And rightly so. For the PvdA, citizenship, that inclusion, is paramount. Fortunately, we have made a great leap forward in this respect. The report also shows that something must be done if we are to prevent people with intellectual disabilities from falling behind. We see that society has become increasingly complicated and demands more and more people. The division between people who can make good progress in today's trendy network society and those who are affected by it really worries us. We need to equip and support people with a slightly intellectual disability so that they can come with us as best they can. This is not just a question of more of the existing concern; this is clearly demonstrated by the SCP report. If there is one report that shows at a glance that the changes in health care and the changes in social security that we are working on are necessary, it is this report. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau makes a number of recommendations which the PvdA strongly supports. Firstly, this concerns care and support. The PvdA wants more coordination at local level. The decentralisation of care, assistance in finding work and appropriate education is intended to better support people, to remove the gaps in support and to encourage people to learn as much skills as possible. We need to look not only at what people can't do, but at what someone can. That also gives self-esteem. That is what people with intellectual disabilities really need. Is that gonna be enough? The report further advocates strengthening primary care, with support in the neighbourhood with expertise from specialist experts if necessary. What role can social neighbourhood teams play in this? What specific arrangements are being made about this? Having a job or spending a day also creates structure, colleagues and social contacts in addition to income. Agreements have been made with employers to create 125,000 places in business. Employers should be encouraged to genuinely adapt their business. This also requires an attitude from employers. Jobcoaches and job carving can help. What is the situation and what is the Secretary of State going to do to further promote this? Finally. I started my contribution by saying that today, fortunately, we deal differently with people with intellectual disabilities. This requires some of the people with disabilities themselves, but also of society. It should also be open to people who can come a little less easily. It requires practical adjustments and better accessibility; assistance in banking, in public transport and in sports. The participation society only works if participation comes from two sides. What will the ratification of the UN Convention, which we passionately support, mean for people with disabilities? In the end, this includes a process of awareness, for all of us, for everyone in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u9	The Labour Party says tonight that it is passionately supporting the ratification of the UN Convention. That is, of course, good, but the Labour Party knows as well as the rest of the Chamber that this ratification is now stalling, because we are waiting for a plan of action from the cabinet. We should have had this plan of action by March. The response to this report has also been delayed for four months. Is that the passionate support we can expect from the Labour Party for the participation of people with intellectual disabilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u10	I believe that we all want the implementation programme to be there as soon as possible and we are all waiting for it with great regret. Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u11	We are looking forward to it, indeed, but if this was really priority number one for the Labour Party, then surely the Labour Party could give it more room for manoeuvre? You're still in this cabinet, aren't you? Then you should say: we simply want this! Surely you should also be concerned that the plan of action is still not there? We should have had it a month ago and it's still not there. We should have had the reaction to the report much earlier. It'll only take a minute, and it'll only take a minute. How long will the Labour Party wait until we can finally ratify that treaty and actually take steps for people with a slightly intellectual disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u12	I am pleased with Mrs Siderius that the Labour Party is in this cabinet. One of the things the PvdA has managed to do is finally to ratify the UN Convention. And yes, there is still a lot to be done, because it is important in substance that we equip people with intellectual disabilities and make this country more accessible and better for people with disabilities who need support. We're working hard on that. I also think that the implementation programme should be there as soon as possible, let there be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u13	Ms. Siderius, would you like to use your second interruption in this case? It's possible. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u14	Well, for Mr Van Dijk; not in this case. Of course, it is a little faint that Mr Van Dijk says that the SP would be pleased that the Labour Party is in the cabinet. The SP is not very happy about that at all, because look what the Labour Party is doing: it is destroying the whole country! You are talking about local customization, Mr Van Dijk. I really don't understand why the Labour Party would dare say that here. You close the social workshops! You briefly spend a lot of time on the day! There are cuts in practical education, which is precisely the kind of education that benefits people with a slightly intellectual disability. How can Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party talk here about local customization, while half of the Netherlands is being demolished? Where are the jobs and the training and daily spending for people with a slightly intellectual disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u15	I am really sorry that Mrs Siderius or the SP always shows that grayened album. If this report shows one thing, it is that continuing with the current way of organizing care, where more and more money has gone in recent years, has not led to a situation in which people could ultimately get the best out of themselves. This report contains a number of recommendations to better equip people for society, with the help of decentralisation, with tailor-made solutions, by investing more and teaching people skills. I really hope Mrs Siderius will stop with that old gray-turned record. I hope that we will work together to ensure that people with disabilities can maintain themselves better in society, because that is what these people deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u16	Everyone always wants to get the best out of themselves. Let me give you a concrete example. Practical education is intended for people with a slightly intellectual disability. Students who come from practical education were previously able to enter a social workshop, but they are closed by your Secretary of State, Mr Van Dijk. Or those students went to the daily business, but it was also demolished by your secretary of state. They could pass to MBO level 2, but they can't do that anymore, because your Minister has entered the calculation test. The directors of practical education schools have sounded the alarm clock. They say these students from school linea recta come home. Most of them still live with their parents and therefore do not receive benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u17	Do you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u18	The Wajong has been abolished and they do not receive assistance because they live at home and the cost-sharing standard has been introduced by you. These students disappear from the picture. Municipalities don't have eyes on that. What will the Labour Party do for these students?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u19	It's just not true. Not all social workshops are closed. The daily spending is not just being closed down either. What this report shows is that we should try not to separate people, but to open up society and call on employers to give them a place in our midst, for example through the 125,000 places that have been agreed with employers. We should not put people with labels in a separate place in the old SP way. Let us try to open up society. That is the reciprocity I believe there should be in the participatory society. We are asking for something from people themselves, but we are also asking for something from employers and from society. Let us try to find these new opportunities with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has been carrying out an incredibly ambitious and complicated task from the start, namely to improve the quality of care and to control costs. For us, it is important that the cabinet keeps its course. Real quality improvement requires a structural and fundamental approach. The quality is raised by making the healthcare system more customer-oriented, through openness about quality, through demand-driven funding, through a firm position of clients, through well-educated staff and good governance. That's a tough challenge. The quality of life can be improved by looking at what people can rather than looking at what they can't do. Society is constantly moving, and that requires adjustments from everyone. We must, of course, bear in mind that this is not equally self-evident for every individual. However, when someone is slightly mentally handicapped, this does not mean that this person would not be able to function in today's society. It takes customization to see what anyone can do and what help he or she needs. It is therefore a good thing that this group of people is more targeted by the decentralisations that have been put in place, which really gives municipalities more opportunities to deliver tailor-made work. As former alderman of the municipality of Waalwijk, I can really talk about this from experience. It's important that you deliver customization, that you know which people it's about, and that you find the best solution for the individual instead of trying to put someone in a box or in a fixed structure. This creates space for initiatives and gives the opportunity for creative solutions. Participation is possible everywhere and yes, there will always be people who are wholly or partly dependent on the government because of illness, lack of a network, loss of a job or a slightly intellectual disability. For those people, the government will always be there as far as the VVD is concerned. For the VVD it is important that everyone, including those with a slightly intellectual disability, can participate fully in society. A job at a regular company between colleagues is extremely important. This will prevent people from being locked up in benefits for a lifetime and thus far more difficult to cope with. Instruments from the Participation Act, such as a job coach, wage costs subsidy and group posting, make this movement possible. However, it is important to ensure that employers are taken care of by municipalities as much as possible and that the target groups register is quickly in order. I've pointed that out to the Secretary of State before. I have one more question for her on this point, namely how the target groups register is going to be and whether she is actually going to make sure that it is in order in the short term. The transformation of the old welfare state into the participatory society is not easy and will also require patience and perseverance. However, we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u21	I was listening and at first I thought it was a bit of management talk, about reforms, savings, support and this tweedat. When I listen to the VVD, I sometimes wonder if the VVD sees where it goes wrong. I am referring, for example, to the effects of the calculation test that is about to come, as Mrs Siderius pointed out. I also refer to the lack of sufficient customer support, which means that this group of people when they talk at municipal level about care and support have no idea what's actually arranged for them or not when they're back outside. Is the VVD prepared to draw conclusions on this, in the sense of once majority voting with motions that want to mean something in it or make a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think the big difference between the VVD and the CDA, or between me and Mrs Keijzer, is that we really have faith in what people can do, even if they have a limitation. We really need to stop just looking at what people can't and whether they need help. Yeah, if they need help, we're gonna have to stand there and we're gonna be there. Then this cabinet is there, too. It would be very good to look at the people, including those with a slightly intellectual disability, who are able to find a job, who just need some extra support. They'd like to hear this from us, too. They want to hear from us that they are there, that they are just participating in society and that it is not just a matter of getting help. Of course, as I have already said, we do not close our eyes when the government has to be for people who really need it. Then the government must be there. However, we also need to have that discussion at some point. That is why we are very proud of these decentralisations. We really need to see how we can make people do things much more on their own instead of just looking where something isn't going well right now. That will certainly be the case. However, the customization of the municipality is precisely intended to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u23	It went a bit from management talk to new-age talk, and that's been out of style for a while. It's not about whether you believe these people have talents. Of course. That's not the point. The question is how you actually support this group of people, with client support and by not making demands on them. I have listened carefully to Mr Potters. I will let it work out in the near future and see what happens when motions are tabled on instruments to achieve that, and then, of course, on the voting behaviour of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u24	You're registering it sharp, Mrs. Keijzer. That is always a good thing. Mrs Bergkamp of the D66 Group also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'm gonna make a proposal to the VVD to see if we can find each other. I think so. I just proposed to both regiments to see how we can use innovation to support people. There are all kinds of beautiful apps in development. My proposal to VWS was to talk to EZ to see how we can better use that innovation to solve societal problems. Is that a proposal that appeals to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u26	I think that is what I said in my contribution. I think we need innovation and new ideas to move forward and not think from existing frameworks. I heard Mrs Dik-Faber say that it is sometimes difficult to get information through speech. I would almost like to refer to the new iPhone. The speech function has already been added to that. That has been such an enormous advance for people with a slightly intellectual disability, in order to be able to make that combination. Beware not only from the government that we should facilitate this. I am convinced that innovation in the market can be a great advantage, even for people with a slightly intellectual disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u27	I assume that Mr Potters is saying: yes, the VVD agrees that innovation should be used to combat social problems. I mentioned the example of SBIR (Small Business Innovation Research). This is an organisation that really makes it a challenge to combine societal problems with innovation. May I conclude from this that if I make a proposal to the directors on this matter, the VVD will embrace that proposal? So I'm talking about stimulating what's already there. SBIR is an organisation that also receives subsidies from the government. I know that the VVD is not too happy about this, but this organisation is working. So I am looking at how we can use innovation for this vulnerable group. In this way we would really have a nice proposal together for the two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u28	I always want to look at a proposal. I would also like to know what the Secretary of State and the Minister think about this. I therefore look forward to Mrs Bergkamp's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'm a little touched by the words of the VVD spokesperson. Of course, innovations must be embraced. If innovations help people, then the Christian Union stands for that. But Mr Potters is talking about innovations on an iPhone. Does he know how many 65-plussers have an iPhone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u30	I believe that this debate is about the slightly mentally handicapped. I know a very large group of slightly mentally handicapped people. They tell me: it has been very innovative that Apple did this. This was not imposed by the government, but this has organised the market itself. That's good to see and we shouldn't get in the way. I just want to say that we have to be careful not only to designate the government as the one to take care of this. A great deal is already happening in society. People are often already able to find their way despite their limitations. We must be proud of that, and we must support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u31	We are indeed talking about slightly mentally handicapped people. I wonder how many people in that group have an iPhone and how many older people have an iPhone. Of course, business innovations are fine. However, I believe that the government in particular has a role to play in this area. Isn't the government supposed to create the right framework conditions? Surely the government should set an example? Surely the government must ensure that services are accessible and understandable? I hope, however, that the VVD Group will say that we cannot just leave this to business. I hope that the VVD will also see that the government has a stimulating and facilitating role in this area. I hope the VVD acknowledges that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u32	I'm thinking about my own parents. They're 71. My mom has an iPhone, not my dad, by the way. However, I understand Mrs Dik-Faber's question. Of course, innovation and communication go very fast and will not be able to keep up with everyone. By the way, I agree with her when she says that the government is mainly there to lay down framework conditions. However, we should not regard the government as the only party providing the supply side. We should not let the government push the market down a bit. I think the interruption of D66 is valuable, because we see that innovation is going very fast. This innovation can help people with disabilities to participate very well in society. Let's be proud of that. There is a role for the government, but the participatory society as a whole is already taking up its role. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you. This brings to an end the first term of office. The directors have said that they can react immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. For years we saw an increasing demand for care for people with a slightly intellectual disability in the AWBZ. In 1998, 22,000 people with a slightly intellectual disability requested AWBZ help. In 2011, it had risen to 108,000 people. At the request of the State Secretary of VWS, the SCP investigated the reasons for this growth. The answer is quite simple. The world around the slightly intellectually handicapped becomes faster, more complex, more digital and more demanding. More and more often, they don't make it alone. According to the experts interviewed by the SCP, this is indeed plausible. There is an accumulation of changes in daily life, education and the labour market. Everything's gotten more complicated. I'm calling it banking and buying a train ticket. It used to be simpler. Back in the day, with the strip card, you could see how many stripes were left on it, but with the O.V. chip card, you can't do that anymore. Mrs Siderius used this quote as well. Only at check-in and check-out you can see the balance, but that falls away soon. A lot now goes on the Internet and web stores. There's a lot of choice, temptation and deception. Think about the energy companies or the health insurance. By post, we are buried under information. In addition, it is often difficult for people with learning difficulties to distinguish between ordinary mail and advertising. When advertising the Postcode lottery, for example, people think they won something soon. Soon someone will be tied to lottery tickets without winning a penny. People are attached to everything. It all starts for free, but it could escalate. There is also less easy work. The Secretary of State will address this section further. The SCP notes something else. The AWBZ was an open door. The AWBZ was an insurance with wide access and fairly open claims to care and support. There was plenty of room for growth. The supply of care has therefore increased considerably. Probably supply creates demand here, too. Care sometimes takes over too many things, rather than striving for self-reliance and strengthening one's own strength and social network. I think you have all come across members with the portfolio of long-term care and transfers on work visits the same situations as I have. In a village where I was, slightly mentally handicapped have taken over a supermarket that had gone on the bottle all over the village. They serve coffee there. They've found really useful work under guidance. They're incredibly proud of that, too. Instead of being written off, they contribute to society. Or take that heavily spastic boy. Transport had been abolished. Tied up in his wheelchair, he gave courses to others about bus transport. That boy was so proud, because he had a function, a purpose. He had colleagues and an environment. I think we should look at this. Of course, I see the obstacles that have been mentioned, but let us also see the perspective. It's so wonderful what can be done. Let's go down that road, see how we can stimulate that. I will leave the introduction to it, because it is very similar to what many have already said. From many contributions the story emerged that you see the power of the people and that we in this Chamber are all convinced that we must seize this power and develop it further. We must also see how we can overcome the disadvantages I have just outlined. Then we, I think, have the balance we are looking for. Whether you call that "participant society" or not, I don't really care. In any case, we want to move towards a society where everyone is part of it. Let us at least define it that way. You can also call it "inclusive," but that's actually quite a complicated word. We are all part of it, we all have our place and we are all appreciated for what we do. That's what I think it's about. So we're not writing anyone off either. In fact, the policy of transferring to the municipalities is also based on this idea, the idea of tailor-made work for those people who need support to develop and develop. A number of suggestions have been made, e.g. a hand-off for government organisations. At present, the government is already making specific demands on citizen communication. That's not static, it's getting more and more developed. The government must do whatever is required of the rest of society and cannot be left behind. I want to see whether an additional hand-out is needed, as I say to Mrs Dik-Faber, but it must be effective. Let's see if there's anything we can actually give an extra boost to with a hand-off. Mrs. Dik-Faber said we're getting a lot of communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u35	Perhaps it would be a good idea to first give Mrs Siderius the opportunity to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u36	I understand that the Minister has already started answering specific questions, but I would like to come back to the introductory part, in particular the participatory society. The minister said between his nose and his lips by "whatever you want to call it," but my question was whether the cabinet recognizes that there is a limit to the participatory society. There have been fine examples mentioned by the Chamber and the Minister himself, but unfortunately there are just as many examples of things that are not going very well, for example because the guidance is being cut back. This means, for example, that people can no longer run a shop or have a good day's spending. The question is, where is that limit? I'd like that question answered tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u37	Of course there are limits, but they are different for every person. That is why we in this country have facilities for those who cannot survive alone. For people who can't make it by themselves, we have heavier facilities. They get lighter as people can do more themselves. That's where customization has to be found. I've heard a lot of examples about job coaching structures. These are meant for people who do have a lot of potential to participate in their way, but do need a boost. That little shop that I was just talking about did not come about because of the fact that slightly mentally disabled people and also physically disabled people were able to get that off the ground all by themselves. They could get that with each other and under the guidance of the ground. That's what it's all about in this society. Oh, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u38	Again, the word "suitable." For this purpose, the so-called decentralisations are intended: the transfer of daily spending, home care and sheltered work to the municipalities. "Customisation" has meanwhile become a container concept and is almost equivalent to "sustaining." Under the guise of customization, we're just gonna cut a big part of it off. Access to the social workshops is closed. There are enormous cuts in education in certain regions, mainly in special education and practical education. The daily spending is severely reduced. Then you can say that tailor-made work is so important and that you should not impose it from above. I totally agree with the Minister, but this also means...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u39	Would you like to come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u40	...that you have to invest in that and that you have to give people rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u41	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u42	Unfortunately, I have to conclude that the participatory society of this cabinet is stalling. It would be really good if the minister could take a look at how she can actually arrange that guidance, that job coach, that sheltered workplaces, instead of tearing it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u43	I don't recognize myself in terms of "sneaking." I recognize myself much more in terms of customization. This sometimes means that you let go where you can. I think this can be done in many areas. The boy I spoke to who teaches wheelchair courses said: earlier we were taken from A to B with the van; we were entitled to that. Those guys weren't happy about that because it also hindered them. Now they're taking the bus like everybody else. This requires a little bit of society, because the journey we are going on, which I call the participatory society, also requires a bit of the whole of the Netherlands. This requires a certain degree of tolerance from the rest of the Netherlands for the fact that we do not all fall into the middle frame, but that people sometimes show a different treaty or are different. We need to work that out with each other. Maybe we should give each other a hand and not judge each other so quickly. That's all part of it. Is that gonna work from day one? No. Do things have to improve on that? Absolutely, absolutely. But it is the way I find much more positive than we put people apart in our own groups. I find a society much more enjoyable and much more meaningful if we try it together. I don't deny there's gonna be cuts. There is indeed a cut in the budget. However, the growth in care went at such a pace that you really had to ask yourself if you could sustain this in the long term. The conclusion was that this was not the case. The question then was how we would do it in a way where we did not focus on the cuts, but what we wanted. From that point of view, the cabinet has started to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u44	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u45	I come to an answer to a question that is partly related to coaching. Mrs Bergkamp asked about the buddy system. I'd like to see if we can step into that. A buddy system is also a kind of coaching system. It's nice if that's successful, because people volunteer for it and are interested in it. It would have very nice effects if you could set up a buddy system, so I'm looking at that. You can also talk about customer support, another form of guidance, traditionally provided by the MEE organisations. The Progress Report transition Hlz of 14 March states that almost all municipalities have purchased expertise from MEE. This ensures the continuity of customer support. In order to verify whether the customer support complies with the legal requirements, a self-test customer support is available to municipal councils and stakeholders. The municipality can use its content to improve customer support if necessary. There is no need to impose special requirements on banks when the UN Convention is implemented. We should not make a range of demands by sector, but general demands through the UN Convention. That is why it is important that we implement the UN Convention in force. We also want to ratify that treaty. That was also agreed in the coalition agreement. With this agreement, the cabinet wants to give a further boost to the inclusive society in which everyone can naturally participate, even if you have a slightly intellectual or other limitation. The necessary legislative proposals for ratification of the Convention and the note on the report have been submitted to the Chamber. The plan of action for the implementation of this Convention will be presented to the Chamber shortly after the ministerial meeting. Then we've been asked about the kitchen table conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mrs Siderius wishes to place her second interruption in this term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u47	I didn't realize we only had two interruptions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u48	That's a bit of a habit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u49	Then I'm gonna ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u50	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u51	That question concerns the UN Convention. Apparently, we can get that in the short term, whatever that is. That's good. I do find it special that the Minister says that she is not going to make separate demands on specific sectors. She specifically mentioned the financial sector. If we ratify the UN Convention, banks will be given a duty of care for people with a slightly intellectual disability. Why should the Minister not choose to organise them now instead of waiting until we have a plan of action and that treaty has finally been ratified? Isn't it much more useful to be proactive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u52	That plan of action means we're gonna organize it. We can say that we are going to organise it separately first and then there will be a plan of action. No, that plan of action is that the cabinet is organizing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u53	Follow-up question from Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u54	So why can't we start with that today, but should we wait until we have a plan of action that has been discussed here in the Chamber? Banks are just supposed to have a duty of care. It's really frustrating when you look at banks' websites. The largest financial institution in the Netherlands simply does not meet the requirements to fulfil that duty of care. How is that possible? That's a very strange situation. It's about 1.4 million people in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u55	That is precisely our argument for our plan of action, which allows this to be regulated on the basis of the UN Convention. In other words, we are working on this. This is taking a long time because this is still being discussed in the cabinet. When this has been discussed in the cabinet, the plan of action comes back to the Chamber. I'll go back to the kitchen table meeting. It is good if that conversation is conducted personally, indeed physically at the kitchen table. But other variants can also be chosen for that conversation. This may depend on the situation in which one finds oneself and on what one chooses at a given time. For this year, the funding of Mentorship Netherlands has been arranged. The Secretary of State is working on a plan for a structural solution and will inform the Chamber about it after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u56	Let's talk about the kitchen tables and client support. I understand from the Minister that a self-test is available for municipalities so that they can check whether customer support is properly arranged. But with a phone call, customer support is, of course, very complicated, because it's often one-on-one. In the country, there is often a situation where agreements have been made on the follow-up to care via a telephone call, while customer support is not at all covered. Do all these municipalities have to do a self-test now, or do we have another solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u57	No, it's not just a self-test, and that's it. We are also working on social neighbourhood teams, who can play an extremely important role in the kitchen table conversation. It is preferable to do this physically, but there may be situations where that is not the case and therefore one chooses a different methodology. This self-test is not only relevant for municipalities; interest groups and citizens can also test their municipalities along the measuring bar of such a self-test and determine how things happen within their municipalities. So that test is available to everyone. You can see with it whether a municipality is adequate. A face-to-face conversation is best, but municipalities have the freedom to deviate from it, and sometimes even argue for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u58	If municipalities deviate from this, however undesirable it might be, this can only be done in a form where customer support is guaranteed. That is simply a legal requirement. Whatever form the municipalities choose, that client support should be in order and involved, if people want to, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u59	VWS has set up handouts. We have also made demands for this discussion and, of course, it has to comply with it. Certain variants are the most obvious, but in individual cases they may differ and choose a different form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u60	I hear the Minister say that the Chamber will be informed after the summer. That seems to me the first week after we're all back from vacation. Did I also hear the Minister say that the information we will receive sees a structural solution for the function of Mentoring the Netherlands? I am asking this in this way, because my colleague Mr Oskam has already asked for this in the V and J budget. Then came a letter from the cabinet with the message: we are not going to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u61	No, it's a structural solution. And when? That structural solution costs money, so I have such a feeling that this is also related to the budget. In any case, the Chamber will have it so timely that it will be able to discuss it properly in the budgetary procedure. Where can people with a slightly intellectual disability report in? In case of more complex problems or if the client has no insight into his or her needs, client support may be called upon. We were just talking about that. That guarantee is laid down in the Wmo 2015. The involvement of municipalities and MEE organisations has helped ensure the continuity of customer support for a large target group of disabled people. A study carried out by Radar, with an N of 136, shows that almost all these municipalities inform clients about the possibility of customer support. This means that improvements are still desirable in terms of communication and recognition of customer support. This one hasn't always been life-wide either. A self-test has been prepared in collaboration with the client organisations, so that it can actually be checked that this is in order. Based on the outcome, a dialogue with the municipality can take place on further improvement of customer support. Also in the Wlz, independent customer support is available from 1 January, through the MEE organisations and Care Interest. Will the cabinet involve people with a slightly intellectual disability in the cabinet response to the SCP report? Yes, they will be discussed with them about the cabinet response. Will the Minister, in consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs, consider whether the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) programme can mean anything in linking companies to people with a slightly intellectual disability? I'd be happy to. Like Mrs Bergkamp, I see that there are many new technological opportunities to help people. Technology is an obstacle. It can sometimes be a threshold, but it can also provide a solution. I therefore consider Mrs Bergkamp's proposal to be extremely positive. Then I'll join the neighborhood teams. The district teams are only very young, but they have the characteristic that they have expertise in a broad field. If they suspect an intellectual limitation, they can therefore use appropriate expertise. In my opinion, social neighbourhood teams offer great opportunities for integrated solutions, for rapid problem recognition and recognition. We must accompany those district teams, which are still very young. Then they can develop positively for the things they need to pick up. This case is one of them. The same applies to primary care. As far as I am concerned, primary care is still too little of a network. It's too much "everyone does their own job." For the coming years it is therefore a real challenge to make the primary care, the general practitioner, the physiotherapist, the district nurse, a network. There's a whole range of people in the neighborhood. I always say: it's incredibly crowded in the neighborhood; we have to make sure that people aren't sent from the locker to the wall. Then it gets miserable. If you turn it into a network in which people find each other, in which everyone is helped on time, in the right place and by the right helper, there is actually a big hit. Then we'll make a huge profit compared to the current situation. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u62	The Minister is right to say that it is busy in the first line. This is also mentioned in the SCP report. However, it also contains a second observation, namely that the second line is not properly connected to the first line at all. Lots of people live in a neighborhood. That's the context of their neighborhood. However, sometimes people are sucked out of that neighborhood, apart from their surroundings, to get into the second line. The SCP report states that we need to help the first line much more, not by sending people to the second line, but by sending the second line into the neighborhood. I would also like to receive a commitment from the Minister on this point. Can the second line be drawn a little more into the neighborhood, rather than the other way around, that one is taken out of the neighborhood and sent to the second line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u63	This is what got me out of the heart. I very much agree. We have made it possible for a GP to call in someone from the second line for a viewing consultation or consultation, without anyone having to go to a hospital. That's how you avoid all these moves. In the ggz we also try from the second line to offer a lot of people out of work, so at home, in the neighborhood, guidance. I think we're at the beginning. We're already doing a lot about it, but this has to grow further. In a network, care is organized around the patient as much as possible, instead of letting the patient go to all those care centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u64	I welcome this answer. The second line into the neighborhood and the first line more as a network, connected to the district team, the social domain of the municipality: that's what the people who live in that neighborhood really need most. We must make a strong commitment to this when it comes to the concern of that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u65	I bet on that and make it possible, but eventually it has to happen in the field. That dermatologist needs to go check it out. It must eventually take place in the field. We are trying to give as much scope as possible to initiatives that actually have this added value, because that is where the future lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u66	Mr. Chairman. I thank the spokesmen for their contributions. I have questions about employment and the inclusive labour market. If the SCP report is about something, all the spokesmen have stressed it, then it is our inclusive society, in which there must be room for everyone. That really is the leitmotiv of the cabinet on all fronts and from all angles. There's two of us here right now, but I think there could have been 20 of us here. This is incredibly clear in our minds. I like the fact that a number of spokesmen have put the emphasis on the question of how to do it in terms of work or in terms of daily spending. I would very much like to stress once again to the SP Group that the social workers' organizations are still standing up as far as the cabinet is concerned. The social work companies are to write about home. They play a wonderful role in the labour market regions. They are now turning into social work companies of the 21st century. The cabinet has also made money available for this, partly thanks to a motion from the Chamber. It's worth 30 million. So the social work companies are now working very hard to give the people who are still working with them a good perspective. They also create new sheltered places, because we have made funds available for 30,000 new places. Last but not least, we have agreed 125 000 places with the social partners in the context of the social agreement for people who cannot earn their minimum wage on their own. This can be particularly important for this target group. I say it very carefully, because of course there are also people with a slightly intellectual disability who can earn their own minimum wage. However, for those who cannot do so, these places are available. People can also be escorted to these places, because money is also provided to the municipalities for this purpose. The municipalities are therefore busy with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u67	I see Mr Potters and Mrs Siderius walking to the interrupting microphone. However, Mrs Siderius has already used the two allowed interruptions in the terms of the rulers, so I must give the floor to Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u68	I have two points of order. First of all, you should have said that in advance. Secondly, I am directly addressed here. The SP Group is directly addressed by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u69	That was to be expected, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u70	Then it would be nice to give a member of the addressed group the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u71	You have a point. I didn't explicitly state it in advance. I suggest you have one more interruption. I will then be the first to give you the opportunity to interrupt, because you were the first to walk to the interrupting microphone. You may make one more interruption, with a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u72	Thank you, that's very generous. This is a difference between day and night with the Secretary of State. I remember meeting the Secretary of State, the SP and the PvdA in the Brabanthallen to fight for the preservation of the social workshops. We thought this was important, because it is also important work, especially for people with an IQ below 85, this really is one of the most important outlets, for example, for practical education. That is what is now being turned into "for social work companies," but that is really something else. The Secretary of State knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u73	Would you like to formulate your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u74	The Secretary of State also knows that it is not going to happen, because, for example, directors of schools in practical education say: we cannot put our students away from those places of sheltered work. So what's the Secretary of State gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u75	More questions have been asked about that, so I'll get to that anyway. I would be happy to go into that now, but let me start by answering Mrs Siderius's question in order, because I intend to pass on the questions of all the spokesmen, including those of the SP Group. Under the Rutte/Verhagen cabinet, Mrs Siderius and I, at least representatives of the SP and the Labour Party, did indeed stand side by side in the context of the then envisaged works of art, because of course that law led to the fact that there would be hardly any workplaces left for people. What is happening now under the Rutte/Asscher cabinet is quite different. There is a very different way of doing things and a completely different dynamic, because of course we have a social agreement in which there is genuinely inclusive labour market places for the people we are talking about tonight. I sincerely think that is a very good thing, because where we put these people under one roof in earlier times, they are right to have something like 'yes hello, we would like to participate with everyone and everything'. I've said this before, but I'm getting older. Where we once, in the 1960s and 1970s, with the best intentions from the then society put people on a cliff that was sometimes on the Veluwe and sometimes in The Village at Arnhem................................................................................................................................................. This is also true of regular employers. For the people who really can't do that and who need a sheltered workplace, they just stay there and they're being quartered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mrs Siderius, ask your follow-up question, which is also really the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u77	It shouldn't get any weirder, because the Secretary of State also knows I'm almost going to compliment the VVD now that the social workshops with the Work still exist as well. However, the Secretary of State simply shuts down access to the social workshops. That can now be given the nice twist that all the people who could normally call on the social workshops, those sheltered workplaces, are getting their hands on, but that is simply not the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u78	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u79	It would be really good if, for example, the Secretary of State would listen to those directors, the people in the field, and at least ensure that the people we are talking about, get a job or stay in the picture, because there is, of course, a big problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u80	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u81	That's true, but I want to respond to this statement as follows. As far as I'm concerned, the social work companies aren't closing down. We are investing hugely in this. In the first part of her speech, Mrs Siderius asked a question about the link between education, especially special education and practical education, and the labour market. This is an excellent thing that the UVW and the VNG have now taken on board together, so that there really is a warm transfer of pupils from special education and practical education to municipalities so that those pupils with good guidance can be brought back to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u82	Before I cause my interruption, I must say that the Act works according to ability and the Act of Participation are, of course, mutually exclusive and that there are not so great changes that it is all completely different in this cabinet period. Fortunately, that is not the case, because I think everyone was also happy with the Act working according to ability and we have made things even better. However, the differences are not as great as the Secretary of State suggests here either. My question was actually about the target group register. We have said on many occasions that it is important that it is really in order on the supply side, so that people with disabilities are properly registered and employers can find them, so that they can just get on the labour market quickly. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if that will be settled soon. It is not only the people themselves who are waiting for it, but also the employers. What can the Secretary of State say about the current state of affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u83	That was Mr Potters' question in his first term. The target group register is, of course, indispensable in the context of the Jobs Agreement and Labour Limitage Act. The target group register already contains quite a few people, namely the Wajongers and all people with SW backgrounds. For employers who are now creating those places, the guarantee jobs, there are already quite a few people "on offer." There is now a need for new people to be redirected to that target group register. This is done by having these people indicated through the UWV. That's starting to happen now. I am in close contact with the VNG and the UWV to streamline that even further, so that we can get things to work even more firmly there as soon as possible. I will continue my speech. I believe that I have already said enough about the guarantee jobs and the instruments available to help people move towards the labour market. Not only the wage costs subsidy is at issue, but of course also the workplace adjustment, testing placement, sheltered work and, last but not least, the job coach. Mrs Bergkamp also mentioned the latter. It is essential for the people we are talking about today to be well escorted to the labour market, but also to the labour market. You can see that employers are also making more and more colleagues available to make this guidance work. In line with what the Minister has just said and whatever I have listened to from Members, inclusive society must indeed come from both sides. If something is essential in the labour market now, it is that when people with disabilities manifest themselves with an employer, the director in question should not only say 'yes' to the creation of a guarantee job, but also ensure that colleagues at the workplace themselves understand the added value of this slightly limited colleague and also help him or her. I've seen incredibly beautiful examples of that. I mirror these examples to other employers and colleagues, so that the ball continues to roll. Thanks to the fact that both Chambers have adopted the Jobs Agreement Act and quota labour restrictions, the incentive for employers, also because of that quota, is more firmly anchored. You can see that in daily practice. If I may, Mr President, I would like to give the employers who have taken the lead and are already busy, a thick plume.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u84	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u85	Good! I hope that good example will follow. I have just said a few words about the connection with education. I believe that Mrs Siderius and Mrs Bergkamp have asked for this. I'll see what's left. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether we would involve people with a slightly intellectual disability in the way we shape our policy. The answer to that is yes. I myself have a Wajong sounding board group, where these people also support me, I would almost say. They think very well with me from their own experiences about how we can manage things for them as well as possible, not only in the field of communication but also in practice. After all, Mrs Bergkamp is quite right: we sometimes carry the pen a little complicated. Then it is very good that people show us the downside of that themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u86	I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that she is using experience experts in shaping the policy. Thank you for that! "Policy" sounds a bit abstract. Are experience experts also involved in shaping the website, the letters and everything that results from that policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u87	Yes. Now that we are in the implementation phase, we would like to use focus groups to take this extra tight. We see the added value of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u88	My day is almost complete with all these beautiful promises. I'm going one step further. So the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment is going to do this. Is it an idea to do this with VWS as well? After all, there is also an enormous amount of concern. Is it possible to involve experience experts when it comes to the letters people get and the pgb? Of course, people also often have to deal with care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u89	I know that Mr Van Rijn, with whom I raise a great deal because we are dealing jointly with the decentralisations, also in his network a great deal of this kind of expertise if I may put it this way, Mr President, taps and uses it. In our legislation, we have once again placed a great deal of emphasis on client councils. Last week, I was at the National Client Council, which had a big conference. I noticed that client councils are extremely active both in terms of care and in terms of the labour market to give form and content to this whole story. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked how we can stimulate jobcarving and job coaching. We are there again with the expertise of the SW companies; I cannot stress them enough doing so to make jobcarving in the workplace clear. I notice that the expertise of work companies helps employers enormously. You have to create new functions, as it were, by peeling pieces of other functions. There are also very catchy examples of this. There's a project that employers are going to be called including. We also support this project from SZW. I notice that this continues to spread the wings. Mr Potters asked a question about the target group register, but I have already addressed it. I'm at the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u90	That brings us to the end of the government's first term. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. I propose one minute's speaking time, one interruption in the term of the Chamber and one interruption in the term of the cabinet. I call Mrs Siderius of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr. Chairman. The ratification of the UN Convention has stopped and the SP regrets that we have to wait again until we finally take action. We have been waiting for ten years and the Netherlands is unfortunately a bit behind in an international perspective. We think that this cabinet lacks priority. This also shows that the Prime Minister did not want to be here tonight. He wanted to go to the AutoRal today. We regret that, because we would have liked to have this debate with the Prime Minister on participatory society. I'll leave it at that, because I have 19 seconds left and I have another motion to make. It's about basic facilities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is becoming increasingly difficult for people with a slight intellectual disability to participate in society because of the substantial cuts;]] [[Whereas basic provisions for people with a slightly intellectual disability can provide a solution for their ability to participate in society;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with relevant interest organisations, to establish a legal basic level of provision for people with a slightly intellectual disability in the following areas of life: care, education, social security, mobility and finance, and to inform the Court of Justice before Princess Day 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-181]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u92	Can I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u93	No, this is an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u94	I'll say something about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u95	Mr. Chairman. It was also my observation. I also note that, in my view, the Prime Minister is going to a very important memorial service, where his presence is greatly appreciated. I don't think it's a good idea for this image to be put here. But it's up to the SP; this happens all the time. It's a good thing you're correcting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u96	During the request for this debate, the Lower House decided that it would be a debate with the Prime Minister. When it appeared that the Prime Minister could not at this time, the debate should have been planned at another time. That's how simple the world is. We really regret it, because it is the heart of the coalition agreement. The Prime Minister is constantly talking about participation, but apparently it is not about the participation of people with a slightly intellectual disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u97	Just for fine-tuning: at first it was. That is a fair statement of yours, and last Tuesday this was very much in discussion, and it was decided by a majority that the Prime Minister should not be present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two directors for answering all the questions that have been put. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment she has made to reconsider whether the hand-out of civil communication should be adapted when it comes to communicating with people with learning difficulties. I ask her how the Chamber is informed about this. I hope that a letter on this can be sent to the Chamber. As far as the kitchen table conversations are concerned, I cannot imagine that a kitchen table conversation takes place in any other way than just face to face. So it should not be done by phone, also in connection with customer support. On 30 April there will be another debate on decentralisation. I shall now turn to this point. Finally. I have drawn attention to the digitisation of banks, in the care sector, in the Tax Administration. It's all very complicated. I hope this will be over when the UN disability convention is ratified. Can the Minister undertake to do so? I would remind her of the Slob motion, which was unanimously adopted by this Chamber and which wants the UN Disability Convention to be ratified in 2013. We're in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. We all share the importance of allowing people with a slightly intellectual disability to participate in society. However, we are all concerned about what this will look like in practice. I sometimes hear good examples of this and sometimes I have to say: more often bad examples. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is committed to a society with more self-reliance, in which everyone can participate;]] [[Whereas people with a slightly intellectual disability cannot survive in many daily activities without professional guidance in a world that is becoming faster, more complex and more digital;]] [[whereas the majority of people with a slightly intellectual disability live independently, but need a certain level of support in that situation;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate:]] [[whether municipalities have a sufficient picture of the group of people with a slightly intellectual disability;]] [[whether municipalities have purchased sufficient assistance and support (e.g. MEE) to provide young people and adults with a slightly intellectual disability in an outpatient situation with the support they need;]] [[and to inform the Court of Auditors of this for the budgetary procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-182]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr. Chairman. The Minister and the Secretary of State today discussed the balance that we want to achieve between promoting self-restraint and caring for people who can't come along. Sometimes you go home after a debate and you notice that a number of comments made by government officials linger. Two comments have been made today, and I will at least take them with me. I really liked that the Minister said: we should not talk about an inclusive society anymore, because that is actually too complicated; let's talk about a society where everyone belongs. I thought that was a very nice one; I'm taking it with me. Both regiments also said today that it requires a tolerant society; that is the other side of the story. My question to both leaders is how we can promote this, the other side of society we want. I welcome the two commitments I have received on the buddy system and on the involvement in the SBIR programme. I would like to ask the directors whether they can take with them, in response to the SCP report, what the situation is and what has happened to it. I also welcome the commitment that experience experts will be widely involved. We talked about VWS and SZW. It would be nice if both heads of government were to discuss this in broad terms in the cabinet. For example, the Tax Administration also has a number of problems in communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their first reply. I actually have to conclude that it was quite a nice debate, especially because it shows the development in the way we look at people with disabilities, whether they are physical disabilities, a slightly intellectual disability or an intellectual disability. The example that came up was Open the Village. That's always a good example. 30 years ago we were proud of each other and we did crowdfunding 50 years ago even, I hear the Secretary of State say "to create something on the outskirts of the city for people with disabilities." That's where we put people apart. We don't want that anymore. Thank God, I'd almost say we don't want that anymore. People with disabilities, with a slightly intellectual disability, we want to make them part of society. I said in the first term that this requires something from the people themselves, but that this also requires something from society. Following on from what Mrs Bergkamp said about this, I would actually like the cabinet response to the SCP report or the programme for the ratification of the UN Convention to pay attention to that aspect of that open, tolerant society. In that society we also pay attention to people who just need something else to go along with, but we no longer separate those people as we used to do in The Village or as we used to do with people with a ggz background or with intellectual disabilities. We need to unlock society so that eventually there is a place for everyone. That is the society of participation that we must strive for, and it warms my heart. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u102	I hope the word of thanks that you formulated came straight from your heart as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u103	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u104	I'm glad. Mr Potters does not need a second term. The directors want a short suspension in preparation for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr. Chairman. In the first motion, Mr Siderius asked the government, in consultation with the relevant interest organisation, to establish a legal basic level of provision for people with a slightly intellectual disability in a number of areas of life. I must discourage this motion because the current laws provide sufficient basis to provide care and support to all those who need it. The adage of customisation applies. That is a different matter from what is being asked in this motion. I'd like to dissuade her. Mrs Dik asks how the hand-out of civil communication can be adapted and whether this can be done by letter. The Chamber will be informed of this when sending out the plan of action on the UN Convention. In principle, the kitchen table conversation is a direct conversation, face to face, at the kitchen table or otherwise. That doesn't necessarily relate to client support. Not everyone needs client support. Sometimes a conversation at the kitchen table where one is physically present is too burdensome or is not considered necessary. The law doesn't say the kitchen table should be there. Good research needs to be done. This can be done in different ways. As soon as the UN Convention has been legally adopted, a phased introduction will take place. As stated earlier, the Court will soon receive a plan of action on this matter. In the second motion, Mrs Keijzer asked the government to examine whether municipalities had a sufficient picture of the group of people with a slightly intellectual disability and whether the municipalities had purchased sufficient help and support. I must discourage this motion because the Empire will not start a monitor per target group. What the Empire does is follow or the law does what it has to do. We don't see any reason to intervene right now. I would like to point out that, of course, we have municipal councils that check how the college fills out the cases in the municipality. Mrs Bergkamp says that we must pay sufficient attention to the other side, tolerant society, and ask how we can promote it. I immediately thought of the destigma conference that we held and where the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State and I were present. What it was about is that if you're going to treat ggz patients in a neighborhood, if you're going to treat them at home in your own environment instead of tucked away somewhere in the woods, you also need a society that understands that not everyone reacts in the same way. Society must understand that sometimes behavior is shown that you do not expect and need to know how to deal with it. It is extremely important that we pay attention to this. Mr Van Dijk also asked for this. We will include the point we expect from society in the response to the SCP report. In this response we will also go into the short term of the innovations at Economic Affairs. That is the point we will take into account in the same reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u106	That abbreviation is undoubtedly still being shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u107	SBIR, is the formal term. If the minister can take that, please. I'm also asking her to take with us how we can possibly deal with the buddy system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u108	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u109	The Secretary of State states that there are no further questions that have been asked to her. However, we have not yet reached the end of the debate, because Mrs Dik-Faber still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u110	We all await the ratification of the UN Disability Convention with great regret. I have already referred to the motion which the Chamber has adopted on this matter. I really hope it comes to the Chamber very soon. The minister said "soon." Can she describe that in more detail? Is that this month, for the summer or this fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u111	No, I can't. I've been told it will be soon. As you know, it's not primarily my field. So I can't tell you how soon it's gonna be. It's quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mrs. Dik-Faber, can you wear this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u113	I think it's a little complicated, because we're all really waiting for it with grief. If the Minister can't point it out now, maybe that can be done in a very short note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u114	It's always difficult, because it has to go through the cabinet. As we know, we never make statements about when something is on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. Inter-departmental coordination must also take place. I know from experience, from my own policy area, how time-consuming that can sometimes be. I cannot now, by means of my words, record my colleague on that. He has given me that it will be soon. What's soon? I suppose that'll be before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u115	Is it possible to transfer the request to indicate a further time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u116	There's nodding that it's before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u117	For the summer. We'll have to do it with that. Thank you all for your input and your interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-8.u118	The votes on both motions will take place next Tuesday.
