ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. A sample of the Association Eigen Huis among 107 municipalities shows that the property tax, the tax paid by homeowners, will increase by an average of 1.8% next year. This is again higher than the macro norm agreed between the Minister of the Interior and the municipalities. Unfortunately, I say "again" because already the entire term of office of this minister, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, and perhaps again in 2016, the macro norm is exceeded by municipalities and homeowners pay more than what was agreed. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. What is the reason why the IZB yields seem to be higher again than allowed by the macro norm? How does the Minister feel about that? What is he going to do to ensure that municipalities do not again exceed the macro norm? Then there's something else. The Vereniging Eigen Huis indicates large differences in the amounts that homeowners have to pay. For example, the municipality of Schiedam charges about €180 to ozb and the municipality of Nijmegen with €475 almost three times as much. How does the Minister view these huge differences? What does he think, apart from the fact that he will undoubtedly come up with, that municipalities are autonomous? How does he feel about this kind of big differences in what homeowners have to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President. The municipalities determine the rates for the IZB. This means that municipalities can set different rates. That's the law. In addition, there is an agreement between the municipalities together and the Empire. That is not an agreement about the rate, because that is what the municipalities themselves decide, but the agreement that the proceeds of all municipalities together cannot increase more than 3% per year. Well, the figures on the proceeds of the IZB will be available in the spring. For this year it seems as if that yield is rising in the order of 1.8%. You would say that this is below 3%, but because we have increased too far in the past, we can now increase less, namely 1.6%. It is possible that 0.2% will be exceeded. I hope not. We'll wait and see. We will hear that from the COELO (Centre for Research of the Economy of the Lower Governments) in March. That's the time to respond to that. Mr Veldman asked the following question. What do you really think about the municipalities having the municipal tax area and being allowed to set rates themselves? I'm going to assume the law as it is. However, my very esteemed colleague, Mr Wiebes, recently presented a plan which referred to an extension of the municipal tax area, so that they have even more room to set these rates themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you for the answer, but it is not an answer to my question. I did not ask what the Minister thinks about municipalities being autonomous in setting the rate, because they are. I asked him why the macro-standard we agreed on is in danger of being exceeded again, as has been the case for the last four years. Over the past four years, homeowners have paid more than EUR 90 million than agreed. We don't have that macro norm for nothing. We have this macro norm, with a good word, in order to avoid disproportionate increases in collective burdens. Ergo, we have this macro standard to ensure that we all do not pay too much tax. That is what we agree on with municipalities. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that the commitments made are complied with? It is not good enough for me if the Minister says: I wait until spring and then I see again. I want the minister to talk to the municipalities and keep them to the agreements made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	I am afraid that we will have to wait until spring until we have final figures. That's the time for me to talk to congregations. But in advance of that, I would like to say: should it appear that the standard is almost reached, but it does not quite look like it is going to be 0.2% above it, then I will agree with them that they will have to run into the 0.2% according to the agreed system next year and so they will not be allowed to increase the yield by up to 3%, but by up to 2.8%. I will. That is in accordance with the previously agreed system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like this minister to be proactive rather than reactive and therefore forward the agreements, because reactive work means that homeowners pay too much every year. They pay more than the deal every year, and that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	The proactive role in determining the property tax really lies with the municipal councils. That's the autonomy of the city council. If the VVD would like to change that, I'd like to hear it. But again, my impression is that, if there were any change in the system, it would be rather an extension of the municipal tax area. I would add the following to that, I say to Mr Veldman. If the whole system of local taxes were to be radically changed by 2019, it seems to me that this is the time to reconsider the macronormsystematiek, with all the ifs and buts you can have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	We are looking at the problems of the homeowners who have to deal with higher burdens. I ask the Minister whether it is not wise to know why municipalities are now being banished to raise rates. Is this not a consequence of the government's policy to maintain the scaling-up discount? Is this not a consequence of the policy of decentralising with far too little money, with a 40% reduction? In short, would the Minister also like to include in his analysis why municipalities have increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	No, I wouldn't want to do that, also because most municipalities don't raise the ozb at all. The average increase of 1.8% is due to the fact that many municipalities keep prices neatly flat. Some municipalities even lower the rates. A few municipalities raise the rates and that is how the average is created. We certainly cannot say that all the municipalities are forced to raise the ICI rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr Klein, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	I have a second question. The increase in ICI rates will increase the burden on citizens. We look at the total burden imposed on people by the government. Isn't it convenient that we take a good look at the purchasing power effects per municipality, so that we get a good picture of what people have to spend because of the taxes they get from Rijk, province and municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is up to the municipalities to set tariffs, as I have already said. If we are going to re-organise the municipal tax area again, the plan is to do so by 2019, then I could imagine that as part of that package a number of local taxes will be reviewed again. There are also a number, such as the dog tax, of which I am slowly finding it difficult to explain why we have it at all. The same applies to the underground precario rights and so there are still a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	Municipalities have very difficult care tasks. There are savings of 20%, 30% or 40%. They may not tax the VVD. However, I have not yet seen the money fall from the sky or grow on the trees. If municipalities want to provide the difficult care to vulnerable people, where do they get the money from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	I thank Mr Van Raak for his support. I think it is more of a question to the VVD indirectly. Eventually, municipalities have to decide how to balance their budgets. I think we can agree on that here. Let us not leave this debate with the impression that all the municipalities are increasing the ozb. By far the majority of municipalities keep the ozb rates neatly levelled. In my introduction, I have already mentioned, and passantly, that the standard of 3% increase is not a rate increase, but an increase in revenue. It is also possible that the proceeds will increase because a new building district has been created, which means that more revenue will be received through the ozb.
